Item 1A. Risk Factors. We will require additional capital in order to continue our operations, and may have difficulty raising additional capital. We expect that we will continue to generate significant operating losses for the foreseeable future. At December 31, 2011, our consolidated cash balance was approximately $5,506,000. We believe our cash on hand is adequate to fund operations into the middle of the third quarter of 2012. We have expended and expect to continue to expend substantial funds on the research, development and clinical and pre-clinical testing of our drug compounds. We will require additional funds to conduct research and development, establish and conduct clinical and pre-clinical trials, establish commercial-scale manufacturing arrangements and provide for the marketing and distribution of our products. Our ability to execute our operating plan depends on our ability to obtain additional funding via the sale of equity and/or debt securities, a strategic transaction or otherwise. Although we have not entered into negotiations for a financing or strategic transaction, we plan to actively pursue financing alternatives. However, there can be no assurance that we will obtain the necessary funding or that it will be available on a timely basis or upon terms acceptable to us. If we obtain capital by issuing debt or preferred stock, the holders of such securities would likely obtain rights that are superior to those of holders of our common stock. Our capital requirements and our ability to meet them depend on many factors, including: ·the number of potential products and technologies in development; ·continued progress and cost of our research and development programs; ·progress with pre-clinical studies and clinical trials; ·the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory clearance; ·costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; ·costs of developing sales, marketing and distribution channels and our ability to sell our drugs; ·costs involved in establishing manufacturing capabilities for clinical trial and commercial quantities of our drugs; ·competing technological and market developments; ·market acceptance of our products; ·costs for recruiting and retaining management, employees and consultants; ·costs for educating physicians regarding the application and use of our products; ·whether or not we obtain listing on a national exchange and, if not, our prospects for obtaining such listing; ·uncertainty and economic instability resulting from terrorist acts and other acts of violence or war; and ·the condition of capital markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and globally. 17 We may consume available resources more rapidly than currently anticipated, resulting in the need for additional funding sooner than expected. We may seek to raise any necessary additional funds through the issuance of warrants, equity or debt financings or executing collaborative arrangements with corporate partners or other sources, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders or have a material effect on our current or future business prospects. In addition, in the event that additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners or other sources, we may have to relinquish economic and/or proprietary rights to some of our technologies or products under development that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize by ourselves. If we cannot secure adequate financing when needed, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs or to enter into license or other arrangements with third parties to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to develop ourselves and commercialize ourselves. In such event, our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. We are a development stage company with a history of losses and can provide no assurance of our future operating results. We are a development stage company and have incurred net losses and negative cash flows since inception. We currently have no product revenues, and may not succeed in developing or commercializing any products which will generate product or licensing revenues. We do not expect to have any marketable products on the market for several years. Our primary activity to date has been research and development. In addition, development of our product candidates requires a process of pre-clinical and clinical testing, during which our product candidates could fail. We may not be able to enter into agreements with one or more companies experienced in the manufacturing and marketing of therapeutic drugs and, to the extent that we are unable to do so, we will not be able to market our product candidates. Eventual profitability will depend on our success in developing, manufacturing, and marketing our product candidates. We have experienced net losses and negative cash flows from operating activities since inception and we expect such losses and negative cash flows to continue in the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2011, we had working capital of $5,312,346 and stockholders’ equity of $9,481,123, respectively. For the period from Cellectar’s inception in November 2002 until the business combination with Novelos on April 8, 2011, and thereafter through December 31, 2011, Cellectar (and, from and after the business combination, Novelos) incurred aggregated net losses of $31,480,426. Net loss for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $7,435,422. We may never achieve profitability. We and our Chief Executive Officer are defendants in a securities fraud class action lawsuit. We are also defending counterclaims in another lawsuit that we initiated. If we are not successful in defending claims against us, the resulting liability could be substantial. A putative class action complaint was filed on March 5, 2010 in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts by an alleged shareholder on behalf of himself and all others who purchased or otherwise acquired our common stock in the period between December 14, 2009 and February 24, 2010, against us and our President and Chief Executive Officer, Harry S. Palmin. The complaint claimed, among other things, that the defendants violated Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder in connection with alleged misleading disclosures related to the progress of the Phase 3 trial of NOV-002 in advanced non-small cell lung cancer. On June 23, 2011, the case was dismissed without prejudice. On August 5, 2011, the plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint realleging that the defendants violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 in connection with alleged misleading disclosures related to the Phase 3 clinical trial for NOV-002 in non-small cell lung cancer. On September 9, 2011, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint. The plaintiffs’ opposition to the motion was filed on October 14, 2011 and the defendants filed a reply brief on November 4, 2011. 18 In addition, on June 28, 2010, we received a letter from counsel to ZAO BAM and ZAO BAM Research Laboratories (Russian companies, collectively referred to as “BAM”) alleging that we modified the chemical composition of NOV-002 without prior notice to or approval from BAM, constituting a material breach of a technology and assignment agreement we had entered into with BAM on June 20, 2000 (the “June 2000 Agreement”). On September 24, 2010, we filed a complaint in Suffolk Superior Court seeking a declaratory judgment by the court that the June 2000 Agreement has been replaced by a subsequent agreement between the parties dated April 1, 2005 (the “April 2005 Agreement”), that Novelos’ obligations to BAM are governed solely by the April 2005 Agreement and that the obligations of the June 2000 Agreement have been performed and fully satisfied. BAM answered the complaint, denying the material allegations, and stating its affirmative defenses and certain counterclaims. In June 2011, BAM filed an amended counterclaim alleging additional claims related to Novelos’ acquisition of Cellectar. On June 15, 2011 we filed our response to their amended counterclaim. On August 5, 2011, we filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings as to our declaratory judgment count and all counts of BAM’s amended counterclaim. The motion was opposed by BAM and a hearing on the motion was held on September 27, 2011. On October 17, 2011, the court ruled on our behalf for each of our declaratory judgment claims and dismissed all counts of BAM’s counterclaim. Judgment in favor of the Company was entered on October 20, 2011. On November 14, 2011, BAM filed a notice of appeal. While we intend to continue to vigorously defend ourselves in these actions, the uncertainties of litigation and the uncertainties related to insurance coverage and collection as well as the actual value of claims make it difficult to accurately predict the financial effect these claims may ultimately have on us. We may not be successful in defending such claims, and the resulting liability could be substantial and may not be covered by insurance. At the time the class action complaint was filed, we carried a total of $10 million in directors and officers liability insurance coverage, consisting of $5 million in primary coverage (including costs to defend) and $5 million in excess liability coverage. The BAM dispute is not covered by insurance. In addition, the lawsuits divert management’s attention and resources, whether or not the claims are ultimately successful, and this could adversely affect our business. As a result, there can be no assurance as to the long-term effect litigation will have on our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. At present, our success depends solely on the successful commercialization of Cellectar compounds. Prior to the Acquisition, Novelos had for over ten years been developing oxidized glutathione-based compounds for the treatment of cancer, including NOV-002, an injectable small-molecule compound based on a proprietary formulation of oxidized glutathione that Novelos had been developing for use in combination with standard-of-care chemotherapies for the treatment of solid tumors, and NOV-205, a hepatoprotective agent with immunomodulating and anti-inflammatory properties. Following the Acquisition, development of NOV-002 and NOV-205 has been suspended and we are now focused on the development of novel drugs for the treatment and diagnosis of cancer based on the cancer-targeting technologies of Cellectar: I-124-CLR1404 (“LIGHT”, labeled with a shorter-lived radioisotope, iodine-124), I-131-CLR1404 (“HOT”, a radiolabeled compound) and CLR1401 (“COLD”). As a result, the successful commercialization of LIGHT, HOT and COLD is crucial for our success. Our proposed products and their potential applications are in an early stage of clinical and manufacturing/process development and face a variety of risks and uncertainties. Principally, these risks include the following: ·future clinical trial results may show that the cancer-targeting technologies of Cellectar are not well tolerated by recipients at its effective doses or are not efficacious; ·future clinical trial results may be inconsistent with Cellectar’s previous preliminary testing results and data from Cellectar’s earlier studies may be inconsistent with clinical data; ·even if the cancer-targeting technologies of Cellectar are shown to be safe and effective for their intended purposes, we may face significant or unforeseen difficulties in obtaining or manufacturing sufficient quantities at reasonable prices or at all; ·our ability to complete the development and commercialization of the cancer-targeting technologies of Cellectar for our intended use is substantially dependent upon our ability to obtain and maintain experienced and committed partners to assist us with obtaining clinical and regulatory approvals for, and the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of, our products; ·even if the cancer-targeting technologies of Cellectar are successfully developed, commercially produced and receive all necessary regulatory approvals, there is no guarantee that there will be market acceptance of our products; and ·our competitors may develop therapeutics or other treatments which are superior or less costly than our own with the result that our product candidates, even if they are successfully developed, manufactured and approved, may not generate sufficient revenues to offset the development and manufacturing costs of our product candidates. 19 If we are unsuccessful in dealing with any of these risks, or if we are unable to successfully commercialize the cancer-targeting technologies of Cellectar for some other reason, our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. We have a history of recurring losses and an accumulated deficit which, among other factors, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may hinder our ability to obtain future financing. Our financial statements as of December 31, 2011 were prepared under the assumption that we will continue as a going concern. The independent registered public accounting firm that audited our 2011 financial statements, in their report, included an explanatory paragraph referring to our recurring losses since inception and expressing substantial doubt in our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Our ability to continue as a going concern depends on our ability to obtain additional equity or debt financing, attain further operating efficiencies, reduce expenditures, and, ultimately, to generate revenue. The failure to complete development of our therapeutic technology, to obtain government approvals, including required FDA approvals, or to comply with ongoing governmental regulations could prevent, delay or limit introduction or sale of proposed products and result in failure to achieve revenues or maintain our ongoing business. Our research and development activities and the manufacture and marketing of our intended products are subject to extensive regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by numerous government authorities in the U.S. and abroad. Before receiving clearance to market our proposed products by the FDA, we will have to demonstrate that our products are safe and effective for the patient population for the diseases that are to be treated. Clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing of drugs are subject to the rigorous testing and approval process of the FDA and equivalent foreign regulatory authorities. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal, state and foreign statutes and regulations govern and influence the testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, distribution and promotion of drugs and medical devices. As a result, clinical trials and regulatory approval can take many years to accomplish and require the expenditure of substantial financial, managerial and other resources. In order to be commercially viable, we must successfully research, develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, introduce, market and distribute our technologies. This includes meeting a number of critical developmental milestones including: ·demonstrating benefit from delivery of each specific drug for specific medical indications; ·demonstrating through pre-clinical and clinical trials that each drug is safe and effective; and ·demonstrating that we have established viable Good Manufacturing Practices capable of potential scale-up. The timeframe necessary to achieve these developmental milestones may be long and uncertain, and we may not successfully complete these milestones for any of our intended products in development. In addition to the risks previously discussed, our technology is subject to developmental risks that include the following: ·uncertainties arising from the rapidly growing scientific aspects of drug therapies and potential treatments; ·uncertainties arising as a result of the broad array of alternative potential treatments related to cancer and other diseases; and ·anticipated expense and time believed to be associated with the development and regulatory approval of treatments for cancer and other diseases. 20 In order to conduct the clinical trials that are necessary to obtain approval by the FDA to market a product, it is necessary to receive clearance from the FDA to conduct such clinical trials. The FDA can halt clinical trials at any time for safety reasons or because we or our clinical investigators do not follow the FDA’s requirements for conducting clinical trials. If we are unable to receive clearance to conduct clinical trials for a product, or the trials are halted by the FDA, we will not be able to achieve any revenue from such product in the U.S. as it is illegal to sell any drug for use in humans in the U.S. without FDA approval. Even if we do ultimately receive FDA approval for any of our products, these products will be subject to extensive ongoing regulation, including regulations governing manufacturing, labeling, packaging, testing, dispensing, prescription and procurement quotas, record keeping, reporting, handling, shipment and disposal of any such drug. Failure to obtain and maintain required registrations or to comply with any applicable regulations could further delay or preclude development and commercialization of our drugs and subject us to enforcement action. Clinical trials involve a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome, and results of earlier studies and trials may not be predictive of future trial results. In order to receive regulatory approval for the commercialization of our product candidates, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive clinical trials to demonstrate safety and efficacy of these product candidates. Clinical testing is expensive, it can take many years to complete and its outcome is uncertain. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. For example, we incurred costs of over $35 million in clinical trial expenses over a period of 4 years in connection with the Phase 3 trial of NOV-002 for non-small cell lung cancer, and NOV-002 did not ultimately demonstrate efficacy for that indication. We may experience delays in clinical testing of our product candidates. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time, will need to be redesigned or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a trial, in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial terms with prospective sites, in obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a trial at a prospective site, in recruiting patients to participate in a trial or in obtaining sufficient supplies of clinical trial materials. Many factors affect patient enrollment, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, competing clinical trials and new drugs approved for the conditions we are investigating. Prescribing physicians will also have to decide to use our product candidates over existing drugs that have established safety and efficacy profiles. Any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow down our product development and approval process and delay our ability to generate revenue. In addition, the results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials of our product candidates do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. The data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates may not be sufficient to support the submission of a new drug application or to obtain regulatory approval in the United States or elsewhere. Because of the uncertainties associated with drug development and regulatory approval, we cannot determine if or when we will have an approved product for commercialization or achieve sales or profits. Our clinical trials may not demonstrate sufficient levels of efficacy necessary to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for our drugs, and our proposed drugs may not be approved for marketing. We suffered significant setbacks in the development of NOV-002 and NOV-205, as some of the promising results of earlier trials were not demonstrated in later stage trials. As a result, following the Acquisition, development of these compounds has been suspended. We may be required to suspend or discontinue clinical trials due to unexpected side effects or other safety risks that could preclude approval of our product candidates. Our clinical trials may be suspended at any time for a number of reasons. For example, we may voluntarily suspend or terminate our clinical trials if at any time we believe that they present an unacceptable risk to the clinical trial patients. In addition, regulatory agencies may order the temporary or permanent discontinuation of our clinical trials at any time if they believe that the clinical trials are not being conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements or that they present an unacceptable safety risk to the clinical trial patients. 21 Administering any product candidates to humans may produce undesirable side effects. These side effects could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of our product candidates and could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying further development or approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. Ultimately, some or all of our product candidates may prove to be unsafe for human use. Moreover, we could be subject to significant liability if any volunteer or patient suffers, or appears to suffer, adverse health effects as a result of participating in our clinical trials. We have limited in-house research and manufacturing capacity and will continue to rely, to some extent, on research and manufacturing facilities at various universities, hospitals, contract research organizations and contract manufacturers for a portion of our research, development, and manufacturing. In the event we exceed our in-house capacity or lose access to those facilities, our ability to gain FDA approval and commercialization of our drug delivery technology and products could be delayed or impaired. We remain in the research and development and clinical and pre-clinical trial phase of product commercialization and have limited experience in establishing, supervising and conducting commercial manufacturing. Accordingly, if our products are approved for commercial sale, we will need to establish the capability, or engage a contract manufacturer that has the capability, to commercially manufacture our products in accordance with FDA and other regulatory requirements. There can be no assurance that we would be able to successfully establish any such capability, or identify a suitable manufacturing partner on acceptable terms. At the present time, we have limited research, development or manufacturing capabilities within our facilities. Our manufacturing facility in Madison, Wisconsin has adequate capacity to supply drug product for Phase 2 studies of HOT, but we will need to expand for larger Phase 3 studies. We are exploring scaling up production capacity of COLD, via contract manufacturers or at our facility, to support an IND filing and clinical trials. LIGHT is currently manufactured by our collaborator, the University of Wisconsin at Madison in small quantities, at no cost to us, for use in investigator-sponsored clinical trials pursuant to a materials transfer agreement expiring in June 2013, but which may be terminated at any time by either party. We rely and expect to continue to rely, to some extent, on contracting with third parties to use their facilities to conduct research, development and manufacturing. The limited facilities of our own in which to conduct research, development and manufacturing may delay or impair our ability to gain FDA approval and commercialization of our drug delivery technology and products. We may rely on third-party contract research organizations, service providers and suppliers to support development and clinical testing of our products. This may expose us to the risks of not being able to directly oversee the production and quality of the manufacturing process. Furthermore, these contractors, whether foreign or domestic, may experience regulatory compliance difficulties, mechanical shutdowns, employee strikes or other unforeseeable acts that may delay production. Failure of any of these contractors to provide the required services in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms could materially delay the development and approval of our products, increase our expenses and materially harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that we have a good working relationship with our contractors. However, should the situation change, we may be required to relocate these activities on short notice, and we do not currently have access to alternate facilities to which we could relocate our research, development and/or manufacturing activities. The cost and time to establish or locate an alternate research, development and/or manufacturing facility to develop our technology would be substantial and would delay obtaining FDA approval and commercializing our products. 22 We are exposed to product, clinical and preclinical liability risks that could create a substantial financial burden should we be sued. Our business exposes us to potential product liability and other liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. In addition, the use, in our clinical trials, of pharmaceutical products that we or our current or potential collaborators may develop and then subsequently sell may cause us to bear a portion of or all product liability risks. While we carry an insurance policy covering up to $5,000,000 per occurrence and $5,000,000 in the aggregate of liability incurred in connection with such claims should they arise, there can be no assurance that our insurance will be adequate to cover all situations. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such insurance, or additional insurance, if required, will be available in the future or, if available, will be available on commercially reasonable terms. Furthermore, our current and potential partners with whom we have collaborative agreements or our future licensees may not be willing to indemnify us against these types of liabilities and may not themselves be sufficiently insured or have a net worth sufficient to satisfy any product liability claims. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Acceptance of our products in the marketplace is uncertain and failure to achieve market acceptance will prevent or delay our ability to generate revenues. Our future financial performance will depend, at least in part, on the introduction and customer acceptance of our proposed products. Even if approved for marketing by the necessary regulatory authorities, our products may not achieve market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance will depend on a number of factors including: ·receiving regulatory clearance of marketing claims for the uses that we are developing; ·establishing and demonstrating the advantages, safety and efficacy of our technologies; ·pricing and reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers such as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other health plan administrators; ·our ability to attract corporate partners, including pharmaceutical companies, to assist in commercializing our intended products; and ·our ability to market our products. Physicians, patients, payers or the medical community in general may be unwilling to accept, use or recommend any of our products. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval or commercialize and market our proposed products as planned, we may not achieve any market acceptance or generate revenue. We may face litigation from third parties who claim that our products infringe on their intellectual property rights, particularly because there is often substantial uncertainty about the validity and breadth of medical patents. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our technologies, products or activities infringe on the intellectual property rights of others or that we have misappropriated the trade secrets of others. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that the validity and breadth of claims covered in medical technology patents and the breadth and scope of trade-secret protection involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial and managerial resources and could harm our reputation. The U. Mich. license does require, and license agreements that we may enter into in the future would likely require, that we pay the costs associated with defending this type of litigation. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: ·cease selling, incorporating or using any of our technologies and/or products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue; ·obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may be costly or may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or ·redesign our products, which would be costly and time-consuming. 23 If we are unable to protect or enforce our rights to intellectual property adequately or to secure rights to third-party patents, we may lose valuable rights, experience reduced market share, assuming any, or incur costly litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. Our ability to obtain licenses to patents, maintain trade-secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others will be important to commercializing any products under development. Therefore, any disruption in access to the technology could substantially delay the development of our technology. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, such as ours, that involve licensing agreements, are frequently uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued or in subsequent legal proceedings. Consequently, our patent applications and any issued and licensed patents may not provide protection against competitive technologies or may be held invalid if challenged or circumvented. To the extent we license patents from third parties, as in the case of the U. Mich. license, the early termination of any such license agreement would result in the loss of our rights to use the covered patents, which could severely delay, inhibit or eliminate our ability to develop and commercialize compounds based on the licensed patents. Our competitors may also independently develop products similar to ours or design around or otherwise circumvent patents issued or licensed to us. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as U.S. law. We also rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. Although we generally require our employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to execute appropriate confidentiality and assignment-of-inventions agreements, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, reverse engineer our information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology. We may be unable to meaningfully protect our rights in trade secrets, technical know-how and other non-patented technology. We may have to resort to litigation to protect our rights for certain intellectual property, or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. Enforcing or defending our rights is expensive, could cause diversion of our resources and may not prove successful. Any failure to enforce or protect our rights could cause us to lose the ability to exclude others from using our technology to develop or sell competing products. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property, which could limit our ability to compete. We operate in the highly technical field of research and development of small molecule drugs, and rely in part on trade-secret protection in order to protect our proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect, and we cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the same or similar technologies on their own. We have taken steps, including entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors, to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how. These agreements generally require that the other party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties all confidential information developed by the party or made known to the party by us during the course of the party’s relationship with us. We also typically obtain agreements from these parties which provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. However, these agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. Enforcing a claim that a party has illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets or know-how is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets or know-how. The failure to obtain or maintain trade-secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers, either inadvertently or otherwise. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. 24 The use of hazardous materials, including radioactive materials, in our research and development imposes certain compliance costs on us and may subject us to liability for claims arising from the use or misuse of these materials. Our research and development, manufacturing and administration of our drugs involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and radioactive materials, such as radioactive isotopes. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the storage, use and disposal of these materials and some waste products and are required to maintain both a manufacturer’s license and a radioactive materials license with State of Wisconsin agencies. We believe that our safety procedures for the storage, use and disposal of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state and local regulations. However, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. If there were to be an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, which could exceed our financial resources. We currently maintain insurance coverage, with limits of up to $2,500,000 depending on the nature of the claim, for damages resulting from the hazardous materials we use; however, future claims may exceed the amount of our coverage. Also, we do not have insurance coverage for pollution cleanup and removal. Currently the costs of complying with federal, state and local regulations are not significant, and consist primarily of waste disposal expenses and permitting fees. However, they could become expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development, production and commercialization efforts. If we are unable to maintain the required licenses and permits for any reason, it will negatively impact our research and development activities. Due to our limited marketing, sales and distribution experience, we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to sell our proposed products, enter into relationships with third parties or develop a direct sales organization. We have not established marketing, sales or distribution capabilities for our proposed products. Until such time as our proposed products are further along in the development process, we will not devote any meaningful time and resources to this effort. At the appropriate time, we intend to develop our own sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to sell our products. We have limited experience in developing, training or managing a sales force. If we choose to establish a direct sales force, we may incur substantial additional expenses in developing, training and managing such an organization. We may be unable to build a sales force on a cost-effective basis or at all. Any such direct marketing and sales efforts may prove to be unsuccessful. In addition, we will compete with many other companies that currently have extensive marketing and sales operations. Our marketing and sales efforts may be unable to compete against these other companies. We may be unable to establish a sufficient sales and marketing organization on a timely basis, if at all. If we choose to enter into agreements with third parties to sell our proposed products, we may be unable to establish or maintain third-party relationships on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. In addition, these third parties may have similar or more established relationships with our competitors. We may be unable to engage qualified distributors. Even if engaged, these distributors may: ·fail to adequately market our products; ·fail to satisfy financial or contractual obligations to us; ·offer, design, manufacture or promote competing products; or ·cease operations with little or no notice. If we fail to develop sales, marketing and distribution channels, we would experience delays in product sales and incur increased costs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operation. 25 If we are unable to convince physicians of the benefits of our intended products, we may incur delays or additional expense in our attempt to establish market acceptance. Achieving use of our products in the target market of cancer diagnosis and treatment may require physicians to be informed regarding these products and their intended benefits. The time and cost of such an educational process may be substantial. Inability to successfully carry out this physician education process may adversely affect market acceptance of our proposed products. We may be unable to timely educate physicians regarding our intended proposed products in sufficient numbers to achieve our marketing plans or to achieve product acceptance. Any delay in physician education may materially delay or reduce demand for our proposed products. In addition, we may expend significant funds towards physician education before any acceptance or demand for our proposed products is created, if at all. The market for our proposed products is rapidly changing and competitive, and new therapeutics, new drugs and new treatments that may be developed by others could impair our ability to maintain and grow our business and remain competitive. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are subject to rapid and substantial technological change. Developments by others may render our technologies and intended products noncompetitive or obsolete, or we may be unable to keep pace with technological developments or other market factors. Technological competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and others diversifying into the field is intense and is expected to increase. Most of these entities have significantly greater research and development capabilities and budgets than we do, as well as substantially more marketing, manufacturing, financial and managerial resources. These entities represent significant competition for us. Acquisitions of, or investments in, competing pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies by large corporations could increase our competitors’ financial, marketing, manufacturing and other resources. We operate with limited day-to-day business management, serve as a vehicle to hold certain technology for possible future exploration, and have been and will continue to be engaged in the development of new drugs and therapeutic technologies. As a result, our resources are limited and we may experience management, operational or technical challenges inherent in such activities and novel technologies. Competitors have developed or are in the process of developing technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for competition. Some of these technologies may accomplish therapeutic effects similar to those of our technology, but through different means. Our competitors may develop drugs and drug delivery technologies that are more effective than our intended products and, therefore, present a serious competitive threat to us. For example, Perifosine, an alkylphospholipid that is being developed by Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, which has licensed it in North America from Æterna Zentaris Inc., is a possible future competitor to COLD. We do not know of any current or potential direct competitors for HOT and LIGHT. Marketed drugs Zevalin® (Spectrum Pharmaceuticals) and Bexxar® (Glaxo Smith Kline) provide examples of targeted radiotherapeutics specifically for lymphoma indication. FDG is the current standard for PET imaging for cancer and may be an alternative diagnostic imaging agent to LIGHT. The potential widespread acceptance of therapies that are alternatives to ours may limit market acceptance of our products even if they are commercialized. Many of our targeted diseases and conditions can also be treated by other medication or drug delivery technologies. These treatments may be widely accepted in medical communities and have a longer history of use. The established use of these competitive drugs may limit the potential for our technologies and products to receive widespread acceptance if commercialized. 26 If users of our products are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers, or if additional healthcare reform measures are adopted, it could hinder or prevent our product candidates’ commercial success. The continuing efforts of government and insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect our ability to generate future revenues and achieve profitability, including by limiting the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative partners. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. The U.S. government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform. Any government-adopted reform measures could adversely affect the pricing of healthcare products and services in the U.S. or internationally and the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third-party payers. The continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payers of healthcare services to contain or reduce healthcare costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices for our products, should we be successful in commercializing them, and this would negatively affect our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability. New laws, regulations and judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and decisions, that relate to healthcare availability, methods of delivery or payment for healthcare products and services, or sales, marketing or pricing of healthcare products and services, also may limit our potential revenue and may require us to revise our research and development programs. The pricing and reimbursement environment may change in the future and become more challenging for several reasons, including policies advanced by the current or future executive administrations in the U.S., new healthcare legislation or fiscal challenges faced by government health administration authorities. Specifically, in both the U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In the U.S., changes in federal healthcare policy were enacted in 2010 and remain the subject of continued reconsideration by Congress. Some proposed reforms could result in reduced reimbursement rates for our product candidates, which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. Our ability to commercialize our products will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations (HMOs). Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical drugs and services. Also, the trend toward managed healthcare in the U.S. and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs that could control or significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and drugs, as well as legislative proposals to reform healthcare or change government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our drugs. The cost containment measures that healthcare payers and providers are instituting and the effect of any healthcare reform could materially harm our ability to operate profitably. We depend on key personnel who may terminate their employment with us at any time, and our success will depend on our ability to hire additional qualified personnel. Our success will depend to a significant degree on the continued services of our chief executive officer, Harry Palmin, Cellectar founder and our chief scientific officer, Jamey Weichert, and our senior vice president of research and development, Christopher Pazoles. There can be no assurance that these individuals will continue to provide services to us. In addition, our success may depend on our ability to attract and retain other highly skilled personnel. We may be unable to recruit such personnel on a timely basis, if at all. Our management and other employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of services of key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, could result in delays in development or approval of our products, loss of sales and diversion of management resources. To date, we have not experienced difficulties attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel, but there can be no assurance we will be successful in doing so in the future. Our stock price has experienced price fluctuations. There can be no assurance that the market price for our common stock will remain at its current level and a decrease in the market price could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by one or more of the following factors: ·announcements or press releases relating to the biopharmaceutical sector or to our own business or prospects; ·regulatory, legislative, or other developments affecting us or the healthcare industry generally; ·sales by holders of restricted securities pursuant to effective registration statements or exemptions from registration; and 27 ·market conditions specific to biopharmaceutical companies, the healthcare industry and the stock market generally. Five of our stockholders beneficially own approximately 61% of our outstanding common stock, which limits the influence of other stockholders. As of March 2, 2012, 61% of our outstanding common stock is beneficially owned by five stockholders. The interests of these stockholders may differ from those of other stockholders. These stockholders will likely continue to have the ability to significantly affect the outcome of all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the following actions: ·the election of directors; ·the amendment of charter documents; and ·the approval of certain mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets. There may be a limited public market for our securities; we presently fail to qualify for listing on any national securities exchanges. Our common stock currently does not meet all of the requirements for initial listing on a registered stock exchange. Specifically, our cash on hand is not sufficient to fund operations for twelve months and the bid price of our common stock is less than the minimum bid price required to obtain a listing. Trading in our common stock continues to be conducted on the electronic bulletin board in the over-the-counter market (currently the OTCQX). As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock, and our common stock may be less attractive for margin loans, or for investment by financial institutions, as consideration in future capital raising transactions or other contexts. Our common stock has historically been a “penny stock” under SEC rules. It may be more difficult to resell shares of common stock classified as “penny stock”. Our common stock has historically been a “penny stock” under applicable SEC rules (generally defined as non-exchange traded stock with a per-share price below $5.00). These rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that recommend the purchase or sale of penny stocks to persons other than those who qualify as “established customers” or “accredited investors.” For example, broker-dealers must determine the appropriateness for non-qualifying persons of investments in penny stocks. Broker-dealers must also provide, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, disclose the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, furnish monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account, provide a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser, and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. Legal remedies available to an investor in "penny stocks" may include the following: ·if a "penny stock" is sold to the investor in violation of the requirements listed above, or other federal or states securities laws, the investor may be able to cancel the purchase and receive a refund of the investment. ·if a “penny stock” is sold to the investor in a fraudulent manner, the investor may be able to sue the persons and firms that committed the fraud for damages. However, investors who have signed arbitration agreements may have to pursue their claims through arbitration. 28 These requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity, if any, in the secondary market for a security that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our securities, which could severely limit the market price and liquidity of our securities. These requirements may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and may affect your ability to resell our common stock. Many brokerage firms will discourage or refrain from recommending investments in penny stocks. Most institutional investors will not invest in penny stocks. In addition, many individual investors will not invest in penny stocks due, among other reasons, to the increased financial risk generally associated with these investments. For these reasons, penny stocks may have a limited market and, consequently, limited liquidity. We can give no assurance at what time, if ever, our common stock will not be classified as a “penny stock” in the future. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Our internal control over financial reporting may have weaknesses and conditions that could require correction or remediation, the disclosure of which may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. We are required to establish and maintain appropriate internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to establish those controls, or any failure of those controls once established, could adversely affect our public disclosures regarding our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting may identify weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. Any actual or perceived weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure of management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. We are required to comply with certain provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and if we fail to comply in a timely manner, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. Rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require an annual assessment of internal controls over financial reporting, and for certain issuers an attestation of this assessment by the issuer’s independent registered public accounting firm. The standards that must be met for management to assess the internal controls over financial reporting as effective are evolving and complex, and require significant documentation, testing, and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards. We expect to incur significant expenses and to devote resources to Section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. It is difficult for us to predict how long it will take or costly it will be to complete the assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for each year and to remediate any deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we may not be able to complete the assessment and remediation process on a timely basis. In addition, although attestation requirements by our independent registered public accounting firm are not presently applicable to us we could become subject to these requirements in the future and we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any resulting changes to internal controls over financial reporting. In the event that our Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, we cannot predict how regulators will react or how the market prices of our shares will be affected; however, we believe that there is a risk that investor confidence and share value may be negatively affected. Our common stock could be further diluted as the result of the issuance of additional shares of common stock, convertible securities, warrants or options. In the past, we have issued common stock, convertible securities (such as convertible preferred stock and notes) and warrants in order to raise money. We have also issued options and warrants as compensation for services and incentive compensation for our employees and directors. We have shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon the exercise of certain of these securities and may increase the shares reserved for these purposes in the future. Our issuance of additional common stock, convertible securities, options and warrants could affect the rights of our stockholders, could reduce the market price of our common stock or could result in adjustments to exercise prices of outstanding warrants (resulting in these securities becoming exercisable for, as the case may be, a greater number of shares of our common stock), or could obligate us to issue additional shares of common stock to certain of our stockholders. 29 Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act, subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to amended Rule 144, non-affiliate stockholders may sell freely after six months subject only to the current public information requirement. Affiliates may sell after six months subject to the Rule 144 volume, manner of sale (for equity securities), current public information and notice requirements. Of the approximately 37 million shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 2, 2012, approximately 11.8 million shares are tradable without restriction. On October 8, 2011, 23,848,133 shares that had been issued in unregistered transactions became tradable pursuant to Rule 144. Any substantial sales of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Provisions of our charter, bylaws, and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us or a change in our management more difficult. Certain provisions of our amended restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which an investor might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock or warrants, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. Furthermore, these provisions could prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions: •provide for the division of our board into three classes as nearly equal in size as possible with staggered three-year terms and further limit the removal of directors and the filling of vacancies; •authorize our board of directors to issue without stockholder approval blank-check preferred stock that, if issued, could operate as a “poison pill” to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors; •require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent; •establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; •limit who may call stockholder meetings; and •require the approval of the holders of 75% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote in order to amend certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. 30 We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. No cash dividends have been paid on Novelos common stock. We do not expect to pay cash dividends in the near future. Payment of dividends would depend upon our profitability at the time, cash available for those dividends, and other factors as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on an investor’s investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. 