RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks described below and all other information contained in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes and the schedules and exhibits to this Annual Report. Risks Related to our Business and Structure We have a limited operating history as a business development company, which may affect our ability to manage our business and may impair your ability to assess our prospects. We were incorporated in December 2003 and commenced investment operations in September 2004. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective and that the value of our common stock could decline substantially. We have a limited operating history as a business development company. As a result, we have limited operating results under these regulatory frameworks that can demonstrate to you either their effect on the business or our ability to manage the business within these frameworks. If we fail to maintain our status as a business development company or fail to qualify as a RIC, our operating flexibility and results of operations would be significantly affected. 22 Table of Contents We are dependent upon key management personnel for our future success, particularly Manuel A. Henriquez, and if we are not able to hire and retain qualified personnel, or if we lose any member of our senior management team, our ability to implement our business strategy could be significantly harmed. We depend upon the members of our senior management, particularly Mr. Henriquez, as well as other key personnel for the identification, final selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of our investments. These employees have critical industry experience and relationships on which we rely to implement our business plan. If we lose the services of Mr. Henriquez, or of any other senior management members, we may not be able to operate the business as we expect, and our ability to compete could be harmed, which could cause our operating results to suffer. We believe our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to identify, attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees. If we do not succeed in identifying, attracting and retaining such personnel, we may not be able to operate our business as we expect. Our business model depends to a significant extent upon strong referral relationships with venture capital and private equity fund sponsors, and our inability to develop or maintain these relationships, or the failure of these relationships to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect our business. We expect that members of our management team will maintain their relationships with venture capital and private equity firms, and we will rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with our deal flow. If we fail to maintain our existing relationships or to develop new relationships with other firms or sources of investment opportunities, then we will not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, persons with whom members of our management team have relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities and, therefore, there is no assurance that such relationships will lead to the origination of debt or other investments. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities, and we may not be able to compete effectively. A large number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we plan to make in prospective portfolio companies. We compete with a large number of venture capital and private equity firms, as well as with other investment funds, investment banks and other sources of financing, including traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks and finance companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and/or access to funding sources that are not available to us. This may enable some competitors to make commercial loans with interest rates that are comparable to or lower than the rates that we typically offer. We may lose prospective portfolio companies if we do not match competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. If we do match competitors’ pricing, terms or structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit losses. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships and build their market shares. Furthermore, many potential competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company or that the Code would impose on us as a RIC. If we are not able to compete effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected. As a result of this competition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and take advantage of attractive investment opportunities that we identify, or that we will be able to fully invest our available capital. Because we intend to distribute substantially all of our income to our stockholders in order to qualify as a RIC, we will continue to need additional capital to finance our growth. If additional funds are unavailable or not available on favorable terms, our ability to grow will be impaired. In order to satisfy the tax requirements applicable to a RIC, to avoid payment of excise taxes and to minimize or avoid payment of income taxes, we intend to distribute to our stockholders substantially all of our 23 Table of Contents ordinary income and realized net capital gains except for certain realized net long-term capital gains, which we currently intend to retain, pay applicable income taxes with respect thereto and elect to treat as deemed distributions to our stockholders. As a business development company, we generally are required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total borrowings and other senior securities, which includes all of our borrowings and any preferred stock that we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. This requirement limits the amount that we may borrow. Because we will continue to need capital to grow our loan and investment portfolio, this limitation may prevent us from incurring debt and require us to raise additional equity at a time when it may be disadvantageous to do so. While we expect to be able to borrow and to issue additional debt and equity securities, we cannot assure you that debt and equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, and debt financings may be restricted by the terms of any of our outstanding borrowings. In addition, as a business development company, we generally are not permitted to issue equity securities priced below net asset value without stockholder approval and approval of our independent directors. If additional funds are not available to us, we could be forced to curtail or cease new lending and investment activities, and our net asset value could decline. Because we borrow money, there could be increased risk in investing in our company. Lenders have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of stockholders, and we have granted, and may in the future grant, lenders a security interest in our assets in connection with borrowings. In the case of a liquidation event, those lenders would receive proceeds before our stockholders. In addition, borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increase the risks associated with investing in our securities. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to increase more than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to decline more than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our revenue in excess of interest expense on our borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage. Any decrease in our revenue would cause our net income to decline more than it would have had we not borrowed funds and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions on common stock. Our ability to service any debt that we incur will depend largely on our financial performance and will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. We and, indirectly our stockholders will bear the cost associated with our leverage activity. Our securitized credit facility with Citigroup Global Markets Realty Corp. which we refer to as the Citigroup Facility contains financial and operating covenants that could restrict our business activities, including our ability to declare dividends if we default under certain provisions. As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding indebtedness of $41 million pursuant to our securitized credit facility with Citigroup Global Market Realty Corp., which we refer to as the Citigroup Facility. We expect, in the future, to borrow from, and issue senior debt securities to, banks, insurance companies and other lenders, including additional borrowings pursuant to the Citigroup Facility. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition—Borrowings.” In addition, we expect to continue to pursue financing from the Small Business Administration under its Small Business Investment Company program. See “Regulation—Small Business Administration Regulations.” As a business development company, we generally are required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total borrowings and other senior securities, which include all of our borrowings and any preferred stock that we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. If this ratio declines below 200%, we may not be able to incur additional debt and may need to sell a portion of our investments to repay some debt when it is disadvantageous to do so, and we may not be able to make distributions. 24 Table of Contents Because most of our investments typically are not in publicly-traded securities, there is uncertainty regarding the value of our investments, which could adversely affect the determination of our net asset value. At December 31, 2006, portfolio investments, 99% of which are valued at fair value by the Board of Directors were approximately 94% of our total assets. We expect our investments to continue to consist primarily of securities issued by privately-held companies, the fair value of which is not readily determinable. In addition, we are not permitted to maintain a general reserve for anticipated loan losses. Instead, we are required by the 1940 Act to specifically value each investment and record an unrealized gain or loss for any asset that we believe has increased or decreased in value. There is no single standard for determining fair value in good faith. We value these securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors, based on the recommendations of our Valuation Committee. The Valuation Committee uses its best judgment in arriving at the fair value of these securities. As a result, determining fair value requires that judgment be applied to the specific facts and circumstances of each portfolio investment while employing a consistently applied valuation process for the types of investments we make. However, the Board of Directors retains ultimate authority as to the appropriate valuation of each investment. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would be assessed if a ready market for these securities existed. We adjust quarterly the valuation of our portfolio to reflect the Board of Directors’ determination of the fair value of each investment in our portfolio. Any changes in fair value are recorded in our statement of operations as net change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. Our financial results could be negatively affected if a significant portfolio investment fails to perform as expected. Our total investment in companies may be significant individually or in the aggregate. As a result, if a significant investment in one or more companies fails to perform as expected, our financial results could be more negatively affected and the magnitude of the loss could be more significant than if we had made smaller investments in more companies. The following table shows the fair value of investments held at December 31, 2006 that are greater than 5% of net assets: December 31, 2006 Fair Value Percentage ofNet Assets QuatRx Pharmaceuticals Company $ 18,014,443 7.1 % Aveo Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 15,008,082 5.9 % Luminus Devices, Inc. 15,010,086 5.9 % Wageworks, Inc. 15,295,434 6.0 % QuatRx Pharmaceuticals Company is a pharmaceutical company focused on discovering, licensing, developing and commercializing compounds in the endocrine, metabolic and cardiovascular therapeutic areas. AVEO is a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery and development of novel cancer therapeutics. Luminus Devices, Inc. develops and manufactures high performance solid state light emitting devices, leading the industry in designing and manufacturing new, powerful light source for a variety of applications. WageWorks provides employer-sponsored, tax-advantaged spending solutions, including medical and family-care reimbursement and transit passes. Our financial results could be negatively affected if these portfolio companies or any of our other significant portfolio companies encounter financial difficulty and fail to repay their obligations or to perform as expected. 25 Table of Contents Regulations governing our operations as a business development company affect our ability to, and the manner in which, we raise additional capital, which may expose us to risks. Our business will require a substantial amount of capital. We may acquire additional capital from the issuance of senior securities, including borrowings, securitization transactions or other indebtedness, or the issuance of additional shares of our common stock. However, we may not be able to raise additional capital in the future on favorable terms or at all. We may issue debt securities, other evidences of indebtedness or preferred stock, and we may borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act permits us to issue senior securities in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. Our ability to pay dividends or issue additional senior securities would be restricted if our asset coverage ratio were not at least 200%. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to liquidate a portion of our investments and repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. As a result of issuing senior securities, we would also be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. If we issue preferred stock, the preferred stock would rank “senior” to common stock in our capital structure, preferred stockholders would have separate voting rights and might have rights, preferences, or privileges more favorable than those of our common stockholders and the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in your best interest. To the extent that we are constrained in our ability to issue debt or other senior securities, we will depend on issuances of common stock to finance operations. Other than in certain limited situations such as rights offerings, as a business development company, we are generally not able to issue our common stock at a price below net asset value without first obtaining required approvals from our stockholders and our independent directors. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, then the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time will decrease, and you might experience dilution. In addition to issuing securities to raise capital as described above, we anticipate that, in the future, we may securitize our loans to generate cash for funding new investments. An inability to successfully securitize our loan portfolio could limit our ability to grow our business and fully execute our business strategy. When we are a debt or minority equity investor in a portfolio company, we may not be in a position to control the entity, and management of the company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. We make both debt and minority equity investments; therefore, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the stockholders and management of such company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could fail to qualify as a business development company or be precluded from investing according to our current business strategy. As a business development company, we may not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. See “Regulation.” We believe that most of the senior and mezzanine loans investments will constitute qualifying assets. However, we may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could lose our status as a business development company, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our 26 Table of Contents position) or could require us to dispose of investments at inappropriate times in order to comply with the 1940 Act. If we need to dispose of such investments quickly, it would be difficult to dispose of such investments on favorable terms. For example, we may have difficulty in finding a buyer and, even if we do find a buyer, we may have to sell the investments at a substantial loss. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and tax requirements, we include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as contracted payment-in-kind interest, which represents contractual interest added to a loan balance and due at the end of such loan’s term. In addition to the cash yields received on our loans, in some instances, certain loans may also include any of the following: end-of-term payments, exit fees, balloon payment fees or prepayment fees. The increases in loan balances as a result of contracted payment-in-kind arrangements are included in income for the period in which such payment-in-kind interest was accrued, which is often in advance of receiving cash payment, and are separately identified on our statements of cash flows. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash. Any warrants that we receive in connection with our debt investments will generally be valued as part of the negotiation process with the particular portfolio company. As a result, a portion of the aggregate purchase price for the debt investments and warrants will be allocated to the warrants that we receive. This will generally result in “original issue discount” for tax purposes, which we must recognize as ordinary income, increasing the amount that we are required to distribute to qualify for the federal income tax benefits applicable to RICs. Because these warrants would not produce distributable cash for us at the same time as we are required to make distributions in respect of the related original issue discount, we would need to obtain cash from other sources to satisfy such distribution requirements. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources to satisfy such distribution requirements, we may fail to qualify for the federal income tax benefits allowable to RICs and, thus, become subject to a corporate-level income tax on all our income. Other features of the debt instruments that we hold may also cause such instruments to generate an original issue discount, resulting in a dividend distribution requirement in excess of current cash interest received. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the RIC tax requirement to distribute at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. If we are unable to meet these distribution requirements, we will not qualify for the federal income tax benefits allowable to a RIC. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our assets, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements There is a risk that you may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a business development company, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. Also, our credit facility limits our ability to declare dividends if we default under certain provisions. If we are unable to manage our future growth effectively, we may be unable to achieve our investment objective, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and cause the value of your investment to decline. Our ability to achieve our investment objective will depend on our ability to sustain growth. Sustaining growth will depend, in turn, on our senior management team’s ability to identify, evaluate, finance and invest in suitable companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is 27 Table of Contents largely a function of our marketing capabilities, our management of the investment process, our ability to provide efficient services and our access to financing sources on acceptable terms. Failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our quarterly and annual operating results are subject to fluctuation as a result of the nature of our business, and if we fail to achieve our investment objective, the net asset value of our common stock may decline. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the interest rate payable on the debt securities that we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. In addition, any of these factors could negatively impact our ability to achieve our investment objectives, which may cause our net asset value of our common stock to decline. Fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability. A portion of our income will depend upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the interest rate on the debt securities in which we invest. Because we will borrow money to make investments, our net investment income is dependent upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest these funds. Typically, we anticipate that our interest-earning investments will accrue and pay interest at fixed rates, and that our interest-bearing liabilities will accrue interest at variable rates. As a result, there can be no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. We anticipate using a combination of equity and long-term and short-term borrowings to finance our investment activities. A significant increase in market interest rates could harm our ability to attract new portfolio companies and originate new loans and investments. We expect that most of our initial investments in debt securities will be at fixed rates. However, in the event that we make investments in debt securities at variable rates, a significant increase in market interest rates could also result in an increase in our non-performing assets and a decrease in the value of our portfolio because our floating-rate loan portfolio companies may be unable to meet higher payment obligations. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds would increase, resulting in a decrease in our net investment income. In addition, a decrease in interest rates may reduce net income, because new investments may be made at lower rates despite the increased demand for our capital that the decrease in interest rates may produce. We may, but will not be required to, hedge against the risk of adverse movement in interest rates in our short-term and long-term borrowings relative to our portfolio of assets. If we engage in hedging activities, it may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are unable to continue to borrow money in order to leverage our equity capital, then our ability to make new investments and to execute our business plan will be impaired. As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding borrowings of $41.0 million pursuant to the Citigroup Facility. We expect to incur additional indebtedness under our subsidiary’s small business investment company license from the Small Business Administration. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining any additional debt capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to obtain debt capital, then our equity investors will not benefit from the potential for increased returns on equity resulting from leverage to the extent that our investment strategy is successful. 28 Table of Contents In addition, the terms of available financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital in the future, we may: • be forced to reduce our operations; • not be able to expand or acquire complementary businesses; and • not be able to develop new services or otherwise respond to changing business conditions or competitive pressures. It is likely that the terms of any long-term or revolving credit or warehouse facility we may enter into in the future could constrain our ability to grow our business. As of December 31, 2006, the Company, through Hercules Funding Trust I, an affiliated statutory trust, has a $150 million securitized credit facility with Citigroup. We expect to enter into additional revolving credit or warehouse facilities in the future. While there can be no assurance that we will be able to borrow from banks or other financial institutions, we expect that we will, at some time in the future, obtain a long-term or revolving credit facility or a warehouse facility. The current lenders have, and any future lender or lenders will have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are senior to the claims of our stockholders and, thus, will have a preference over our stockholders with respect to our assets. In addition, we may grant a security interest in our assets in connection with any such borrowing. We expect such a facility to contain customary default provisions such as a minimum net worth amount, a profitability test, and a restriction on changing our business and loan quality standards. An event of default under any credit facility would likely result, among other things, in termination of the availability of further funds under that facility and an accelerated maturity date for all amounts outstanding under the facility, which would likely disrupt our business and, potentially, the business of the portfolio companies whose loans that we financed through the facility. This could reduce our revenues and, by delaying any cash payment allowed to us under our facility until the lender has been paid in full, reduce our liquidity and cash flow and impair our ability to grow our business and maintain our status as a RIC. Our cost of borrowing is increased by the warrant participation agreement we have with one of our lenders. In addition, our realized gains are reduced by amounts paid pursuant to the warrant participation agreement. Citigroup has an equity participation right through a warrant participation agreement on the pool of loans and warrants collateralized under the Citigroup Facility. Pursuant to the warrant participation agreement, we granted to Citigroup a 10% participation in all warrants held as collateral. As a result, Citigroup is entitled to 10% of the realized gains on the warrants until the realized gains paid to Citigroup pursuant to the agreement equals $3,750,000 (the “Maximum Participation Limit”). The obligations under the warrant participation agreement continue even after the Citigroup Facility is terminated until the Maximum Participation Limit has been reached. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company reduced its realized gain by approximately $221,000 for Citigroup’s participation in the gain on sale of an equity security and recorded an additional liability and reduced its unrealized gains by a net amount of approximately $35,000 for Citigroup’s participation. Since inception of the agreement, we have paid Citigroup approximately $281,000 under the warrant participation agreement thereby reducing our realized gains. In addition, our realized gains will be reduced by the amounts owed to Citigroup under the warrant participation agreement. The value of Citigroup’s participation right on unrealized gains in the related equity investments since inception of the agreement was approximately $377,000 at December 31, 2006 and is included in accrued liabilities and reduces the unrealized gain recognized by us at December 31, 2006. Citigroup’s rights under the warrant participation agreement increase our cost of borrowing and reduce our realized gains. 29 Table of Contents One of our wholly-owned subsidiaries is licensed by the U.S. Small Business Administration, and as a result, we will be subject to SBA regulations. Our wholly-owned subsidiary HTII, is licensed to operate as a SBIC and is regulated by the U.S. Small Business Administration (“SBA”). The SBA regulations require that a licensed SBIC be periodically examined and audited by the SBA to determine its compliance with the relevant SBA regulations. If HTII fails to comply with applicable SBA regulations, the SBA could, depending on the severity of the violation, limit or prohibit the HTII’s use of debentures, declare outstanding debentures immediately due and payable, and/or limit the HTII from making new investments. The SBA also imposes a limit on the maximum amount that may be borrowed by any single SBIC. The SBA prohibits, without prior SBA approval, a “change of control” of a SBIC or transfers that would result in any person (or a group of persons acting in concert) owning 10% or more of a class of capital stock of a licensed SBIC. If we are unable to satisfy Code requirements for qualification as a RIC, then we will be subject to corporate-level income tax, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We will elect to be treated as a RIC for federal income tax purposes with the filing of our federal corporate income tax return for 2006, which election will be effective as of January 1, 2006. We will not qualify for the tax treatment allowable to RICs if we are unable to comply with the source of income, diversification and distribution requirements contained in Subchapter M of the Code, or if we fail to maintain our election to be regulated as a business development company under the 1940 Act. If we fail to qualify for the federal income tax benefits allowable to RICs for any reason and remain or become subject to a corporate-level income tax, the resulting taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution to our stockholders and the actual amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us, the net asset value of our common stock and the total return, if any, obtainable from your investment in our common stock. Any net operating losses that we incur in periods during which we qualify as a RIC will not offset net capital gains (i.e., net realized long-term capital gains in excess of net realized short-term capital losses) that we are otherwise required to distribute, and we cannot pass such net operating losses through to our stockholders. In addition, net operating losses that we carry over to a taxable year in which we qualify as a RIC normally cannot offset ordinary income or capital gains. Interpretations of the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding the appropriateness of the consolidation of certain of our subsidiaries may have an impact on our financial statements. The staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Staff”) is reviewing the appropriateness of the consolidation of certain types of subsidiaries on an industry-wide basis under generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and Rule 6-03 of Regulation S-X. In connection with such review, the Staff is in the process of reviewing the appropriateness of our consolidation of certain of our subsidiaries (the “Subsidiaries”). In the event that the Staff disagrees with our position with respect to the appropriateness of consolidation of any of the Subsidiaries, then we will make such additional disclosures and prospective changes in accounting methods as the Staff requires on a prospective basis which will be discussed and reviewed with us. Although we believe that our consolidation of the Subsidiaries conforms with GAAP, there can be no assurance that the Staff will ultimately concur with our position. Such events could have a material impact on our future reported results. Changes in laws or regulations governing our business could negatively affect the profitability of our operations. Changes in the laws or regulations, or the interpretations of the laws and regulations, which govern business development companies, small business investment companies, RICs or non-depository commercial lenders could significantly affect our operations and our cost of doing business. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations and are subject to judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including 30 Table of Contents our loan originations, maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure procedures, and other trade practices. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, or if we expand our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent requirements than those in which we currently conduct business, then we may have to incur significant expenses in order to comply or we may have to restrict our operations. In addition, if we do not comply with applicable laws, regulations and decisions, then we may lose licenses needed for the conduct of our business and be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Investments Our investments are concentrated in a limited number of technology-related companies, which subjects us to the risk of significant loss if any of these companies default on their obligations under any of their debt securities that we hold, or if any of the technology-related industry sectors experience a downturn. We have invested and intend to continue investing in a limited number of technology-related companies. A consequence of this limited number of investments is that the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Beyond the asset diversification requirements to which we will be subject as a RIC, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification or limitations on the size of our investments in any one portfolio company and our investments could be concentrated in relatively few issuers. In addition, we have invested in and intend to continue investing, under normal circumstances, at least 80% of the value of our total assets (including the amount of any borrowings for investment purposes) in technology-related and life-science companies. As a result, a downturn in technology-related and life-science industry sectors could materially adversely affect us. Our investments may be concentrated in emerging-growth or expansion-stage portfolio companies, which may have limited operating histories and financial resources. We expect that our portfolio will continue to consist primarily of investments in emerging-growth and expansion-stage privately-owned businesses, which may have relatively limited operating histories. Compared to larger established or publicly-owned firms, these companies may be particularly vulnerable to economic downturns, may have more limited access to capital and higher funding costs, may have a weaker financial position and may need more capital to expand or compete. These businesses also may experience substantial variations in operating results. They may face intense competition, including from companies with greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Furthermore, some of these companies do business in regulated industries and could be affected by changes in government regulation. Accordingly, these factors could impair their cash flow or result in other events, such as bankruptcy, which could limit their ability to repay their obligations to us, and may adversely affect the return on, or the recovery of, our investment in these companies. We cannot assure you that any of our investments in our portfolio companies will be successful. Our portfolio companies compete with larger, established companies with greater access to, and resources for, further development in these new technologies. We may lose our entire investment in any or all of our portfolio companies. Our investment strategy focuses on technology-related and life-science companies, which are subject to many risks, including volatility, intense competition, shortened product life cycles and periodic downturns, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We have invested and will continue investing primarily in technology-related and life-science companies, many of which may have narrow product lines and small market shares, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as to general economic downturns. The revenues, income (or losses), and valuations of technology-related and life-science companies can and often do fluctuate suddenly and dramatically. In addition, technology- related markets are generally characterized by abrupt business cycles and intense competition. Beginning in mid-2000, there was substantial excess production 31 Table of Contents capacity and a significant slowdown in many technology-related industries. This overcapacity, together with a cyclical economic downturn, resulted in substantial decreases in the market capitalization of many technology- related and life-science companies. While such valuations have recovered to some extent, such decreases in market capitalization may occur again, and any future decreases in technology-related and life-science company valuations may be substantial and may not be temporary in nature. Therefore, our portfolio companies may face considerably more risk of loss than do companies in other industry sectors. Because of rapid technological change, the average selling prices of products and some services provided by technology-related and life-science companies have historically decreased over their productive lives. As a result, the average selling prices of products and services offered by technology-related and life-science companies may decrease over time, which could adversely affect their operating results, their ability to meet obligations under their debt securities and the value of their equity securities. This could, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have invested in and may continue investing in technology-related and life-science companies that do not have venture capital or private equity firms as equity investors, and these companies may entail a higher risk of loss than do companies with institutional equity investors, which could increase the risk of loss of your investment. Our portfolio companies will often require substantial additional equity financing to satisfy their continuing working capital and other cash requirements and, in most instances, to service the interest and principal payments on our investment. Portfolio companies that do not have venture capital or private equity investors may be unable to raise any additional capital to satisfy their obligations or to raise sufficient additional capital to reach the next stage of development. Portfolio companies that do not have venture capital or private equity investors may be less financially sophisticated and may not have access to independent members to serve on their boards, which means that they may be less successful than portfolio companies sponsored by venture capital or private equity firms. Accordingly, financing these types of companies may entail a higher risk of loss than would financing companies that are sponsored by venture capital or private equity firms. Economic recessions or downturns could impair the ability of our portfolio companies to repay loans, which, in turn, could increase our non-performing assets, decrease the value of our portfolio, reduce our volume of new loans and harm our operating results, which might have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during such periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during such periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of the portfolio company’s loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize the portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if a portfolio company goes bankrupt, even though we may have structured our investment as senior debt or secured debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided significant “managerial assistance,” if any, to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. These events could harm our financial condition and operating results. 32 Table of Contents We do not control our portfolio companies. These portfolio companies may face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater financial resources, more extensive research and development, manufacturing, marketing and service capabilities and greater number of qualified and experienced managerial and technical personnel. They may need additional financing which they are unable to secure and which we are unable or unwilling to provide, or they may be subject to adverse developments unrelated to the technologies they acquire. The inability of our portfolio companies to commercialize their technologies or create or develop commercially viable products or businesses would have a negative impact on our investment returns. The possibility that our portfolio companies will not be able to commercialize their technology, products or business concepts presents significant risks to the value of our investment. Additionally, although some of our portfolio companies may already have a commercially successful product or product line when we invest, technology-related and life-science products and services often have a more limited market- or life -span than have products in other industries. Thus, the ultimate success of these companies often depends on their ability to continually innovate, or raise additional capital, in increasingly competitive markets. Their inability to do so could affect our investment return. In addition, the intellectual property held by our portfolio companies often represents a substantial portion of the collateral, if any, securing our investments. We cannot assure you that any of our portfolio companies will successfully acquire or develop any new technologies, or that the intellectual property the companies currently hold will remain viable. Even if our portfolio companies are able to develop commercially viable products, the market for new products and services is highly competitive and rapidly changing. Neither our portfolio companies nor we have any control over the pace of technology development. Commercial success is difficult to predict, and the marketing efforts of our portfolio companies may not be successful. An investment strategy focused primarily on privately-held companies presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies, a dependence on the talents and efforts of only a few key portfolio company personnel and a greater vulnerability to economic downturns. We invest primarily in privately-held companies. Generally, very little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of our management team to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, then we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may not receive the expected return on our investment or lose some or all of the money invested in these companies. Also, privately-held companies frequently have less diverse product lines and a smaller market presence than do larger competitors. Privately-held companies are, thus, generally more vulnerable to economic downturns and may experience more substantial variations in operating results than do larger competitors. These factors could affect our investment returns. In addition, our success depends, in large part, upon the abilities of the key management personnel of our portfolio companies, who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of our portfolio companies. Competition for qualified personnel is intense at any stage of a company’s development, and high turnover of personnel is common in technology-related companies. The loss of one or more key managers can hinder or delay a company’s implementation of its business plan and harm its financial condition. Our portfolio companies may not be able to attract and retain qualified managers and personnel. Any inability to do so may negatively impact our investment returns. If our portfolio companies are unable to protect their intellectual property rights, then our business and prospects could be harmed. If our portfolio companies are required to devote significant resources to protecting their intellectual property rights, then the value of our investment could be reduced. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon the ability of our portfolio companies to obtain and maintain proprietary technology used in their products and services, which will often represent a significant portion of the collateral, if any, securing our investment. The portfolio companies will rely, in part, on 33 Table of Contents patent, trade secret and trademark law to protect that technology, but competitors may misappropriate their intellectual property, and disputes as to ownership of intellectual property may arise. Portfolio companies may, from time to time, be required to institute litigation in order to enforce their patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights, to protect their trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Similarly, if a portfolio company is found to infringe upon or misappropriate a third party’s patent or other proprietary rights, that portfolio company could be required to pay damages to such third party, alter its own products or processes, obtain a license from the third party and/or cease activities utilizing such proprietary rights, including making or selling products utilizing such proprietary rights. Any of the foregoing events could negatively affect both the portfolio company’s ability to service our debt investment and the value of any related debt and equity securities that we own, as well as any collateral securing our investment. We may not be able to realize our entire investment on equipment-based loans in the case of default. We may from time-to-time provide loans that will be collateralized only by equipment of the portfolio company. If the portfolio company defaults on the loan we would take possession of the underlying equipment to satisfy the outstanding debt. The residual value of the equipment at the time we would take possession may not be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding debt and we could experience a loss on the disposition of the equipment. Some of our portfolio companies may need additional capital, which may not be readily available. Our portfolio companies will often require substantial additional equity financing to satisfy their continuing working capital and other requirements, and in most instances to service the interest and principal payments on our investment. Each round of venture financing is typically intended to provide a company with only enough capital to reach the next stage of development. We cannot predict the circumstances or market conditions under which our portfolio companies will seek additional capital. It is possible that one or more of our portfolio companies will not be able to raise additional financing or may be able to do so only at a price or on terms unfavorable to us, either of which would negatively impact our investment returns. Some of these companies may be unable to obtain sufficient financing from private investors, public capital markets or traditional lenders. Accordingly, financing these types of companies may entail a higher risk of loss than would financing companies that are able to utilize traditional credit sources. We may be unable or decide not to make additional cash investments in our portfolio companies which could result in our losing our initial investment if the portfolio company fails. We may have to make additional cash investments in our portfolio companies to protect our overall investment value in the particular company. We retain the discretion to make any additional investments as our management determines. The failure to make such additional investments may jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company, and our initial (and subsequent) investments. Moreover, additional investments may limit the number of companies in which we can make initial investments. In determining whether to make an additional investment our management will exercise its business judgment and apply criteria similar to those used when making the initial investment. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds to make any necessary additional investments, which could adversely affect our success and result in the loss of a substantial portion or all of our investment in a portfolio company. If our investments do not meet our performance expectations, you may not receive distributions. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders. We may not be able to achieve operating results that will allow us to make distributions at a specific level or to increase the amount of these distributions from time to time. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a business development company, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. See “Regulation.” Also, restrictions and provisions in any future credit facilities may limit our ability to make distributions. As a RIC, if we do not distribute a certain percentage of our income annually, we will suffer adverse tax consequences, including failure to obtain, or possible loss of, the federal income tax benefits allowable to RICs. See “Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Taxation as a Regulated Investment Company.” We cannot assure you that you will receive distributions at a particular level or at all. 34 Table of Contents Any unrealized depreciation that we experience on our loan portfolio may be an indication of future realized losses, which could reduce our income available for distribution. As a business development company, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at the fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors in accordance with procedures approved by our Board of Directors. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments will be recorded as unrealized depreciation. Any unrealized depreciation in our loan portfolio could be an indication of a portfolio company’s inability to meet its repayment obligations to us with respect to the affected loans. This could result in realized losses in the future and ultimately in reductions of our income available for distribution in future periods. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business and, if we need to sell any of our investments, we may not be able to do so at a favorable price. As a result, we may suffer losses. We generally invest in debt securities with terms of up to seven years and hold such investments until maturity, and we do not expect that our related holdings of equity securities will provide us with liquidity opportunities in the near-term. We invest and expect to continue investing in companies whose securities have no established trading market and whose securities are and will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or whose securities are and will be less liquid than are publicly-traded securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell these investments when desired. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded these investments. As a result, we do not expect to achieve liquidity in our investments in the near-term. However, to maintain our qualification as a business development company and as a RIC, we may have to dispose of investments if we do not satisfy one or more of the applicable criteria under the respective regulatory frameworks. Our investments are usually subject to contractual or legal restrictions on resale, or are otherwise illiquid, because there is usually no established trading market for such investments. The illiquidity of most of our investments may make it difficult for us to dispose of the investments at a favorable price and, as a result, we may suffer losses. If the assets securing the loans that we make decrease in value, then we may lack sufficient collateral to cover losses. We believe that our portfolio companies generally will be able to repay our loans from their available capital, from future capital-raising transactions, or from cash flow from operations. However, to attempt to mitigate credit risks, we will typically take a security interest in the available assets of these portfolio companies, including the equity interests of their subsidiaries and, in some cases, the equity interests of our portfolio companies held by their stockholders. In many cases, our loans will include a period of interest-only payments. There is a risk that the collateral securing our loans may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of a portfolio company to raise additional capital. In some circumstances, our lien could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. Additionally, deterioration in a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan. Moreover, in the case of some of our structured mezzanine debt, we may not have a first lien position on the collateral. Consequently, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan’s terms, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to enforce our remedies. In addition, because we invest in technology-related companies, a substantial portion of the assets securing our investment may be in the form of intellectual property, if any, inventory and equipment and, to a lesser extent, cash and accounts receivable. Intellectual property, if any, that is securing our loan could lose value if, among other things, the company’s rights to the intellectual property are challenged or if the company’s license to the intellectual property is revoked or expires. Inventory may not be adequate to secure our loan if our valuation of the inventory at the time that we made the loan was not accurate or if there is a reduction in the demand for the inventory. 35 Table of Contents Similarly, any equipment securing our loan may not provide us with the anticipated security if there are changes in technology or advances in new equipment that render the particular equipment obsolete or of limited value, or if the company fails to adequately maintain or repair the equipment. Any one or more of the preceding factors could materially impair our ability to recover principal in a foreclosure. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We invest primarily in debt securities issued by our portfolio companies. In some cases, portfolio companies will be permitted to have other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. Such debt instruments may provide that the holders thereof are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company might not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share on a pari passu basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy. In addition, we would not be in a position to control any portfolio company by investing in its debt securities. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such companies, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not best serve our interests as debt investors. Our equity investments are highly speculative, and we may not realize gains from these investments. If our equity investments do not generate gains, then the return on our invested capital will be lower than it would otherwise be, which could result in a decline in the value of shares of our common stock. When we invest in debt securities, we generally expect to acquire warrants or other equity securities as well. Our goal is ultimately to dispose of these equity interests and realize gains upon disposition of such interests. Over time, the gains that we realize on these equity interests may offset, to some extent, losses that we experience on defaults under debt securities that we hold. However, the equity interests that we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses that we experience. We do not control any of our portfolio companies and therefore our portfolio companies may make decisions with which we disagree. We do not control any of our portfolio companies, even though we may have board observation rights and our debt agreements may contain certain restrictive covenants. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors. Prepayments of our debt investments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and reduce our return on equity. We are subject to the risk that the investments we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. When this occurs, we will generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in new portfolio companies. These temporary investments will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt being prepaid and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. 36 Table of Contents Any future investment in a new portfolio company may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elects to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. We may not realize gains from our equity investments. When we invest in debt securities, we generally expect to acquire warrants or other equity securities as well. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock price may be volatile and may decrease substantially. The trading price of our common stock following an offering may fluctuate substantially. The price of the common stock that will prevail in the market after an offering may be higher or lower than the price you paid and the liquidity of our common stock may be limited, in each case depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of RICs, business development companies or other financial services companies; • any inability to deploy or invest our capital; • fluctuations in interest rates; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines with respect to RICs or business development companies; • losing RIC status; • actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results, or changes in the expectations of securities analysts; • changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; • realized losses in investments in our portfolio companies; • general economic conditions and trends; • loss of a major funded source; or • departures of key personnel. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and could divert management’s attention and resources from our business. 37 Table of Contents Investing in shares of our common stock may involve an above average degree of risk. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk, volatility or loss of principal than alternative investment options. Our investments in portfolio companies may be highly speculative and aggressive, and therefore, an investment in our common stock may not be suitable for investors with lower risk tolerance. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not decline. We cannot predict the price at which our common stock will trade. Shares of closed-end investment companies have in the past frequently traded at discounts to their net asset values and our stock may also be discounted in the market. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. We cannot predict whether shares of our common stock will trade above, at or below our net asset value. In addition, if our common stock trades below its net asset value, we will generally not be able to issue additional shares of our common stock at its market price without first obtaining the approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our independent directors. Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, and of our charter and bylaws, could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. The Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying, or making difficult a change in control of our company or the removal of our incumbent directors. We will be covered by the Business Combination Act of the Maryland General Corporation Law to the extent that such statute is not superseded by applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. However, our Board of Directors has adopted a resolution exempting from the Business Combination Act any business combination between us and any person to the extent that such business combination receives the prior approval of our board, including a majority of our directors who are not interested persons as defined in the 1940 Act. Our Board of Directors has already adopted a resolution exempting from the Business Combination Act any business combination between us and certain investment funds managed by JMP Asset Management, LLC and certain investment funds managed by Farallon Capital Management, L.L.C., and we have agreed with such investment funds that we will not alter or repeal such board resolution prior to the date that is two years after such investment funds cease to own at least 10% of our outstanding common stock in a manner that would make the Business Combination Act applicable to acquisitions of our stock by such investment funds without the written consent of such investment funds. In addition, our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our stock. We have agreed with certain investment funds managed by JMP Asset Management, LLC and certain investment funds managed by Farallon Capital Management, L.L.C. that we will not repeal or amend such provision of our bylaws in a manner that would make the Control Share Acquisition Act applicable to acquisitions of our stock by such investment funds without the written consent of such investment funds prior to the date that is two years after such investment funds cease to own at least 10% of our outstanding common stock. If the applicable board resolution is repealed following such period of time or if our board does not otherwise approve a business combination, the Business Combination Act and the Control Share Acquisition Act (if we amend our bylaws to be subject to that Act) may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. Under our charter, our Board of Directors is divided into three classes serving staggered terms, which will make it more difficult for a hostile bidder to acquire control of us. In addition, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder action, authorize the issuance of shares of stock in one or more classes or series, including preferred stock. Subject to compliance with the 1940 Act, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder action, amend our charter to increase the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue. The existence of these provisions, among others, may have a negative impact on the price of our common stock and may discourage third party bids for ownership of our company. These provisions may prevent any premiums being offered to you for shares of our common stock. 38 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 