Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur business operations face a number of risks. These risks should be read and considered with other information provided in this report.General economic factors, both domestically and internationally, might adversely affect our financial performance.General economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, might adversely affect our financial performance. Weakness in the financial and housing markets, inflation, higher levels of unemployment, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely affect donations to non-profits, reducing their revenue and therefore possibly their demand for the products and services we sell and lengthen our sales and payment cycles. Higher interest rates, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the United States could increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results. These factors affect not only our operations, but also the operations of suppliers from whom we purchase or license products and services, a factor that could result in an increase in the cost to us of our products and services, reducing our margins.We significantly increased our leverage in connection with our acquisition of Convio.We amended and restated our credit agreement in February 2012 to increase our borrowing capacity to $325.0 million. We incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness in connection with our acquisition of Convio in May 2012. As a result of this indebtedness, our interest payment obligations have increased. The degree to which we are leveraged could have adverse effects on our business, including the following:•Requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends and other general corporate purposes; •Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; •Restricting us from making additional strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities; •Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; •Limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and •Decreasing our ability to compete effectively or operate successfully under adverse economic and industry conditions.If we incur additional debt, these risks will intensify. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to the financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control.A substantial portion of our revenue is currently derived from The Raiser's Edge, Luminate Online and Blackbaud CRM, and a decline in sales or renewals of these or similar products and related services could harm our business.We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of The Raiser's Edge and Blackbaud CRM, and other products that help customers manage constituent relationships and related services, and we expect revenue from these products and related services to continue to account for a substantial portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. For example, revenue from the sale of The Raiser's Edge and related services represented approximately 30%, 35% and 38% of our total revenue in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Because we often sell licenses to our products on a perpetual basis and deliver new versions and enhancements to customers who purchase annual maintenance and support, our future license, services and maintenance 12revenue are substantially dependent on sales to new customers. In addition, we frequently sell these or similar products to new customers and then attempt to generate incremental revenue from the sale of additional products and services. If demand for The Raiser's Edge, Luminate Online, Blackbaud CRM or similar products declines significantly, our business would suffer.We encounter lengthy sales cycles which could have an adverse effect on the amount, timing and predictability of our revenue and sales.Potential customers, particularly our larger enterprise clients, generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and require us to expend substantial time, effort and money educating them as to the value of our software and services. Sales of our software products to these larger customers often require an extensive education and marketing effort. We could expend significant funds and management resources during the sales cycle and ultimately fail to close the sale. Historically, our software product sales cycle averages approximately two months for sales to existing customers and from six to nine months for sales to new customers. Recently, we have experienced longer sales cycle times, delays and postponements of purchasing decisions by our current and prospective customers as a result of challenges posed upon nonprofit organizations by the uncertain economic environment. Our sales cycle for all of our products and services is subject to significant risks and delays over which we have little or no control, including:•Our customers' budgetary constraints;•The timing of our clients' budget cycles and approval processes;•The impact of the macroeconomic environment on our customers;•Our clients' willingness to replace their current methods or software solutions;•Our need to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our products and services; and•The timing and expiration of our clients' current license agreements or outsourcing agreements for similar services.If we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant funds and management resources or if we experience delays as discussed above, it could have a material adverse effect on the amount, timing and predictability of our revenue.We encounter long and complex implementation cycles, particularly for our largest customers, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability and the timing and predictability of our revenue.The implementation of our products and services, particularly in our large CRM engagements, frequently involves complex configuration, business process reengineering and system interfaces and can extend for a year or more. Our enterprise CRM product offerings are relatively new, and we may not have historical experience with unanticipated implementation challenges or complexities that could arise in these engagements. Further, these projects typically are heavily dependent on customer participation, communication and timely responsiveness throughout the implementation cycle. As the complexity of these engagements increases, our revenues and profitability could suffer from delays in project completion and having to perform unplanned incremental services at rates substantially below our normal hourly rates or make investments in the form of non-billable service hours or other concessions. If we are unsuccessful in implementing our products or if we experience delays, it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and the timing and predictability of our revenue.If our customers do not renew their annual maintenance and support agreements or subscriptions for our products or if they do not renew them on terms that are favorable to us, our business might suffer.Most of our maintenance agreements and subscriptions are for a one year term. As the end of the annual period approaches, we pursue the renewal of the agreement with the customer. Historically, maintenance and subscriptions renewals have represented a significant portion of our total revenue. Because of this characteristic of our business, if our customers choose not to renew their maintenance and support agreements or subscriptions with us on beneficial terms, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our customers' renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our products and services and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels.We might not generate increased business from our current customers, which could limit our revenue in the future.Our business model is highly dependent on the success of our efforts to sell additional products and services to our existing customers. Many of our customers initially make a purchase of only one or a limited number of our products or only for a single department within their organization. These customers might choose not to expand their use of or make additional purchases of our products and services. If we fail to generate additional business from our current customers, our revenue could 13grow at a slower rate or even decrease. In addition, as we deploy new applications and features for our existing products or introduce new products and services, our current customers could choose not to purchase these new offerings.The offering of our products on a subscription basis is evolving and demand by our customers for these offerings is increasing. Our failure to manage this evolution and demand could lead to lower than expected revenues and profits.In recent years, much of our revenue growth was derived from increased subscription offerings, including SaaS. This business model depends heavily on achieving economies of scale because the initial upfront investment is costly and the associated revenue is recognized on a ratable basis. If we fail to achieve appropriate economies of scale or if we fail to manage or anticipate the evolution and demand for the subscription software pricing models, then our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The additional investments required to meet customer demand will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by reducing expenses in the short term.Defects, delays or interruptions in our SaaS and hosting services could diminish demand for these services and subject us to substantial liability.We currently utilize data center hosting facilities to provide SaaS and hosting services to our customers. Any damage to, or failure of, our data center systems generally could result in interruptions in service to our customers, notwithstanding any disaster recovery arrangements that may currently be in place at these facilities. Because our SaaS, Internet-based and hosting service offerings are complex, and we have incorporated a variety of new computer hardware and software systems at the data centers, our services might have errors or defects that users identify after they begin using our services. This could result in unanticipated downtime for our customers and harm to our reputation and our business. Internet-based services frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects in our Internet-based services and new errors might again be detected in the future. In addition, our customers might use our Internet-based offerings in unanticipated ways that cause a disruption in service for other customers attempting to access their data.Because our customers use these services for important aspects of their business, any defects, delays or disruptions in service or other performance problems with our services could hurt our reputation and damage our customers' businesses. If that occurs, customers could elect to cancel their service, or delay or withhold payment to us, we could lose future sales or customers might make claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation. Any of these could harm our business and our reputation.The market for software and services for nonprofit organizations might not grow and nonprofit organizations might not continue to adopt our products and services.Many nonprofit organizations have not traditionally used integrated and comprehensive software and services for their nonprofit-specific needs. We cannot be certain that the market for such products and services will continue to develop and grow or that nonprofit organizations will elect to adopt our products and services rather than continue to use traditional, less automated methods, attempt to develop software internally, rely upon legacy software systems, or use software solutions not specifically designed for the nonprofit market. Nonprofit organizations that have already invested substantial resources in other fundraising methods or other non-integrated software solutions might be reluctant to adopt our products and services to supplement or replace their existing systems or methods. In addition, the implementation of one or more of our core software products can involve significant time and capital commitments by our customers, which they may be unwilling or unable to make. If demand for and market acceptance of our products and services does not increase, we might not grow our business as we expect.Because a significant portion of our revenue is recognized ratably over the terms of the contract, downturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our revenue.We recognize our maintenance and subscriptions revenue monthly over the term of the customer agreement. The terms of the customer agreements typically range from 1-3 years. As a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is attributable to agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in sales to new customers, renewals by existing customers or market acceptance of our products in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenues in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenues and profitability in future quarters. Our operations might be affected by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event.We depend on our principal executive offices and other facilities for the continued operation of our business. Although we have contingency plans in effect for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, these events, including terrorist attacks and natural 14disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes could disrupt one or more of these facilities and adversely affect our operations. In addition, our Charleston headquarters require a remediation effort to improve weather resistance. This remediation effort is the responsibility of the landlord, but delays in the remediation or disruption caused by the remediation effort could have an adverse effect on our operations. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies and typically have provisions in our contracts that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies or for which we do not have coverage. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting us could have a significant negative impact on our operations.If the security of our software is breached, we fail to securely collect, store and transmit customer information, or we fail to safeguard confidential donor data, our products and services might be perceived as not being secure and our reputation and business could suffer.Fundamental to the use of our products is the secure collection, storage and transmission of confidential donor and end user information. Although we have commercially available network and application security, internal control measures, and physical security procedures to safeguard our systems, there can be no assurance that a security breach, intrusion, loss or theft of personal information will not occur, which may harm our business, customer reputation and future financial results and may require us to expend significant resources to address these problems, including notification under data privacy regulations.A compromise of our software or other problems that results in customer or donor personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations. The existence of vulnerabilities, even if they do not result in a security breach, may harm customer confidence and require substantial resources to address, and we may not be able to discover or remedy such security vulnerabilities before they are exploited. Also, computers, including those that use our software, are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. We might be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect further against security breaches or to rectify problems caused by any security breach. Privacy and security concerns, including evolving government regulation in the area of consumer data privacy, could adversely affect our business and operating results.The effectiveness of our software products relies on our customers' storage and use of data concerning their customers, including financial, personally identifying and other sensitive data. Our customers' collection and use of this data for donor profiling might raise privacy and security concerns and negatively impact the demand for our products and services. For example, our custom modeling and analytical services, including ProspectPoint, WealthPoint and donorCentrics, rely heavily on securing and making use of data we gather from various sources and privacy laws could jeopardize our ability to market and profit from those services. If a breach of customer data security were to occur, our products may be perceived as less desirable, which would negatively affect our business and operating results.Governments in some jurisdictions have enacted or are considering enacting consumer data privacy legislation, including laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing and use of consumer data. This legislation could reduce the demand for our software products if we fail to design or enhance our products to enable our customers to comply with the privacy and security measures required by the legislation. Moreover, we may be exposed to liability under existing or new consumer data privacy legislation. For example, we are subject to the privacy provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and might be subject to similar provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and related regulations. Even technical violations of these laws can result in penalties that are assessed for each non-compliant transaction. As part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, Congress passed the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HI-TECH Act. The HI-TECH Act expands the reach of data privacy and security requirements of HIPAA to service providers. HIPAA and associated United States Department of Health and Human Services regulations permit our customers in the healthcare industry to use certain demographic protected health information (such as name, email or physical address and dates of service) for fundraising purposes and to disclose that subset of protected health information to their service providers for fundraising. We may be included in this service provider group under the revised HIPAA regulations by virtue of our service provider relationship with our customers in the healthcare industry. In general, we seek to contractually prohibit our healthcare industry customers from using other types of health information of their clients for fundraising purposes that would be non compliant with HIPAA, but we believe monitoring our healthcare customers' compliance with such prohibitions is not legally required of service providers and would be cost prohibitive. The law and regulations under HI-TECH are new and still subject to change or interpretation by legal authorities who could cause additional compliance burdens. If we or our customers were found to be subject to and in violation of any of these laws or other data 15privacy laws or regulations, our business could suffer and we and/or our customers would likely have to change our business practices. In addition, these laws and regulations could impose significant costs on us and our customers and make it more difficult for donors to make online donations.If we are unable, or customers believe we are unable, to detect and prevent unauthorized use of credit cards and safeguard confidential donor data, we could be subject to financial liability, our reputation could be harmed and customers may be reluctant to use our products and services.Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect sensitive transaction data. If any such compromise of our security, or the security of our customers, were to occur, it could result in misappropriation of proprietary information or interruptions in operations and have an adverse impact on our reputation or the reputation of our customers. All of our products are currently certified as Payment Application Data Security Standard compliant. Currently some of our products are not fully compliant with Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, or PCI DSS. This or other factors could make customers believe we are unable to detect and prevent unauthorized use of credit cards or confidential donor data, which could harm our business. Additionally, these factors could make issuing banks believe the transactions of our customers are compromised and refuse to process those transactions, which could harm the reputation of our products and our business.Conforming our products and services to PCI DSS is expensive and time-consuming. Our failure to maintain compliance with PCI DSS could make customers believe we are unable to detect and prevent unauthorized use of credit cards and bank account numbers or protect confidential donor data and our reputation and business might be harmed.Our subscriptions and services revenue produces substantially lower gross margins than our license revenue, and changes in the relative mix of these and other sources of revenue could negatively affect our overall gross margins.Our subscriptions revenue, which includes fees for providing access to hosted applications, application hosting services and access to certain data services and our online subscription training offerings, has experienced the largest percentage revenue growth over the last three years. Subscriptions revenue was approximately 36%, 28% and 26% of our revenue for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our subscriptions revenue has substantially lower gross margins than our product license revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, our subscriptions margin was 58%, 59% and 63%. A continued increase in the percentage of total revenue represented by subscriptions revenue could adversely affect our overall gross margins and operating results if we are unable to achieve economies of scale in our subscription based offerings. Additionally, if nonprofits in general, and specifically our customers and prospects, desire to adopt our subscription offerings much more rapidly than we currently anticipate and we are unable to respond in a timely fashion, we could encounter significant effects to our business, including substantial capital expenditures, reduction in profitability, decrease in revenue growth and/or we could become potentially less competitive, resulting in a loss of market share.Our services revenue, which includes fees for consulting, customization, implementation, training, data and technical services and analytics, was approximately 27%, 29% and 27% of our revenue for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our services revenue has substantially lower gross margins than our product license revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, our services margin was 19%, 27% and 24%, respectively. An increase in the percentage of total revenue represented by services revenue without an improvement in services margin could adversely affect our operating results.Certain of our services are contracted under fixed fee arrangements, which we base on estimates. If our estimated number of hours to perform engagement implementation services are less than our actual hours, our operating results would be adversely affected. Services revenue as a percentage of total revenue has varied significantly from quarter to quarter due to fluctuations in licensing revenue, economic changes, varying accounting treatments, changes in the average selling prices for our products and services, our customers' acceptance of our products and our sales force execution. In addition, the volume and profitability of services can depend in large part upon:•Competitive pricing pressure on the rates that we can charge for our services;•The complexity of the customers' information technology environment and the existence of multiple non-integrated legacy databases;•The resources directed by customers to their implementation projects; •The extent of software customization included in the implementation projects; and•The extent to which outside consulting organizations provide services directly to customers.A decrease in the demand for services could adversely affect our profitability and operating results.16Our quarterly financial results fluctuate and might be difficult to forecast and, if our future results are below either any guidance we might issue or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock might decline.Our quarterly revenue and results of operations are difficult to forecast. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in revenue and operating results from quarter to quarter. As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that such comparisons might not be accurate indicators of future performance. The reasons for these fluctuations include but are not limited to:•The size and timing of sales of our software, including the relatively long sales cycles associated with many of our larger software sales;•Budget and spending decisions by our customers;•The degree of judgment required to estimate large consulting service engagements;•Scheduling considerations by our customers as they impact the delivery of purchased services;•Varying accounting treatments based upon the facts and circumstances of each arrangement;•Utilization of our professional services personnel;•Market acceptance of new products we release;•Market acceptance of products we acquire;•The amount and timing of operating costs related to the expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure;•Changes in our pricing policies or our competitors' pricing policies;•General economic conditions and effects of tax law changes; and•Costs related to acquisitions of technologies or businesses.Our operating expenses, which include sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses, are based on our expectations of future revenue and are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. If revenue falls below our expectations in a quarter and we are not able to quickly reduce our operating expenses in response, our operating results for that quarter could be adversely affected. It is possible that in some future quarter our operating results may be below either any guidance we might issue or the expectations of public market analysts and investors and, as a result, the price of our common stock might fall.Our failure to compete successfully could cause our revenue or market share to decline.Our market is fragmented, highly competitive and rapidly evolving and there are limited barriers to entry for some aspects of this market. We mainly face competition from four sources:•Software developers offering specialized products designed to address specific needs of nonprofit organizations, some of which are sold with subscription pricing;•Providers of traditional, less automated fundraising services such as services that support traditional direct mail campaigns, special events fundraising, telemarketing and personal solicitations;•Custom-developed products created either internally or outsourced to custom service providers; and•Software developers offering general products not designed to address specific needs of nonprofit organizations.The companies we compete with and other potential competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources and generate greater revenue and better name recognition than we do. Companies such as Microsoft, Salesforce.com and Oracle offer some products that are designed specifically for nonprofit organizations, in addition to some of their products which have a degree of functionality for nonprofit organizations that could be considered competitive. Also, if one or more of our competitors or potential competitors were to merge or partner with one of our other competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. For example, a large diversified software enterprise, such as Microsoft, Oracle or Salesforce.com, could decide to enter the market directly, including through acquisitions. Competitive pressures can adversely impact our business by limiting the prices we can charge our customers and making the adoption and renewal of our solutions more difficult.17Our competitors might also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with resellers and third-party consulting firms or other parties with whom we have had relationships, thereby limiting our ability to promote our products. These competitive pressures could cause our revenue and market share to decline.If we fail to respond to technological changes to be competitive, our business could suffer.The software industry is characterized by technological change, evolving industry standards in hardware and software technology, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products encompassing new technologies can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue to enhance existing products and develop and introduce in a timely manner or acquire new products that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements and achieve market acceptance. There is no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. Further, there can be no assurance that the products, capabilities or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, because our service is designed to operate on a variety of network hardware and software platforms using a standard browser, we will need to continuously modify and enhance our service to keep pace with changes in Internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. We have made and continue to make significant working capital investments in accordance with evolving industry and customer requirements. These concentrations of working capital increase our risk of loss due to product or technology obsolescence. If we are unable to develop or acquire on a timely and cost-effective basis new software products or enhancements to existing products or if such new products or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.Because competition for highly qualified personnel is intense, we might not be able to attract and retain key personnel and personnel we need to support our planned growth.To meet our objectives successfully, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel, including a qualified chief executive officer, with specialized skill sets. If we are unable to hire a qualified chief executive officer or are unable to attract suitably qualified management, there could be a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, to execute our continuing growth plans, we need to increase the size and maintain the quality of our sales force, software development staff and our professional services organization. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, and we might not be successful in attracting and retaining them. The pool of qualified personnel with experience working with or selling to nonprofit organizations is limited overall and specifically in Charleston, South Carolina, where our principal office is located. Our ability to maintain and expand our sales, product development and professional services teams will depend on our ability to recruit, train and retain top quality people with advanced skills who understand sales to, and the specific needs of, nonprofit organizations. For these reasons, we have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications for our business. In addition, it takes time for our new sales and services personnel to become productive, particularly with respect to obtaining and supporting major customer accounts. We might also engage additional third-party consultants as contractors, which could have a negative impact on our earnings. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified personnel, or if newly hired personnel fail to develop the necessary skills or reach productivity slower than anticipated, it would be more difficult for us to sell our products and services, we could experience a shortfall in revenue or earnings and not achieve our planned growth.Further, in the past, we have used equity incentive programs as part of our overall employee compensation arrangements to both attract and retain personnel. A decline in our stock price could negatively impact the value of these equity incentive and related compensation programs as retention and recruiting tools. We may need to create new or additional equity incentive programs and/or compensation packages to remain competitive, which could be dilutive to our existing stockholders and/or adversely affect our results of operations.If we do not successfully address the risks inherent in the expansion of our international operations, our business could suffer.We currently have operations in Canada, United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Australia and Asia, and we intend to expand further into international markets. We have limited experience in international operations and might not be able to compete effectively in international markets. Our international offices generated revenues of approximately $61.0 million, $53.6 million and $44.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Accordingly, international revenue increased 13.8% and 21.5% in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Expansion of our international operations will require a significant amount of attention from our management and substantial financial resources and might require us to add qualified management in these markets. Our direct sales model requires us to attract, retain and manage qualified sales personnel capable of selling into 18markets outside the United States. In some cases, our costs of sales might increase if our customers require us to sell through local distributors.If we are unable to grow our international operations in a cost effective and timely manner, our business and operating results could be harmed. Doing business internationally involves additional risks that could harm our operating results, including:•Difficulties associated with and costs of staffing and managing international operations;•Differing technology standards;•Difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods;•Political and economic instability;•Imposition of currency exchange controls;•Potentially adverse tax consequences;•Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in certain countries;•Dependence on local vendors;•Protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competition;•Compliance with multiple conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations;•Seasonal reductions in business activity specific to certain markets;•Longer sales cycles;•Restrictions on repatriation of earnings or new taxation thereon;•Differing labor regulations;•Differing accounting rules and practices;•Restrictive privacy regulations in different countries, particularly in the European Union;•Restrictions on the export of technologies such as data security and encryption;•Compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; and•Import and export restrictions and tariffs.We expect that an increasing portion of our international software license, consulting services and maintenance services revenues will be denominated in foreign currencies, subjecting us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If we expand our international operations, exposures to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions may increase.If our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, our business could suffer.Complex software such as ours often contains undetected errors or bugs. Such errors are frequently found after introduction of new software or enhancements to existing software. We continually introduce or acquire the rights to new products and release new versions of our products. If we detect any errors before we ship a product, we might have to delay product shipment for an extended period of time while we address the problem. We might not discover software errors that affect our new or current products or enhancements until after they are deployed, and we may need to provide enhancements to correct such errors. Therefore, it is possible that, despite testing by us, errors may occur in our software. These errors could result in:•Harm to our reputation;•Lost sales;•Delays in commercial release;•Product liability claims;•License terminations or renegotiations; and•Unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors.19Furthermore, our customers may use our software together with products from other companies. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our software does not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts, impact our reputation and cause significant customer relations problems.Our failure to obtain licenses for third-party technologies could harm our business.We expect to continue licensing technologies from third parties, including applications used in our research and development activities, technologies which are integrated into our products and products that we resell. Although we believe that the loss of any third-party technologies currently integrated into our products would not have a material adverse effect on our business, this might change in the future. Our inability in the future to obtain any third-party licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could delay future product development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed and integrated. This inability in turn would harm our business and operating results. Our use of third-party technologies exposes us to increased risks including, but not limited to, risks associated with the integration of new technology into our products, the diversion of our resources from development of our own proprietary technology and our inability to generate revenue from licensed technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs.We rely upon trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights, which might not provide us with adequate protection.Our success and ability to compete depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our software and other proprietary technology rights. We might not be successful in protecting our proprietary technology and our proprietary rights might not provide us with a meaningful competitive advantage. To protect our core proprietary technology, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements, each of which affords only limited protection. We have no patent protection for The Raiser's Edge, which is one of our core products and responsible for a significant portion of our revenue. Any inability to protect our intellectual property rights could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. It is possible that:•Any patents issued to us may not be timely or broad enough to protect our proprietary rights;•Any issued patent could be successfully challenged by one or more third parties, which could result in our loss of the right to prevent others from exploiting the inventions claimed in those patents; and•Current and future competitors may independently develop similar technologies, duplicate our products or design around any of our patents.In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights in our products to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Despite the measures taken by us, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology and information without authorization. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and litigation could become necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any litigation could be time consuming and expensive to prosecute or resolve, and could result in substantial diversion of management attention and resources, and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.Restrictions in our revolving credit facility may limit our activities, including dividend payments, share repurchases and acquisitions.Our credit facility contains restrictions, including covenants limiting our ability to incur additional debt, grant liens, make acquisitions and other investments, prepay specified debt, consolidate, merge or acquire other businesses, sell assets, pay dividends and other distributions, repurchase stock and enter into transactions with affiliates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance with the covenants to which we are subject in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from our lenders or amend the covenants.In the event of a default under our credit facility, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings, which we might not be able to do. In addition, certain of our material domestic subsidiaries will be required to guarantee amounts borrowed under the credit facility, and we have pledged the shares of certain of our subsidiaries as collateral for our obligations under the credit facility. Any such default could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate, including allowing lenders under the credit facility to enforce guarantees of our subsidiaries, if any, or exercise their rights with respect to the shares pledged as collateral.20Our business and financial performance could be negatively impacted by changes in tax laws or regulations.We and our customers are subject to a wide variety of tax laws and regulations in jurisdictions around the world. In response to recent economic challenges, we anticipate that many of the jurisdictions in which we and our customers do business will review tax and other revenue raising laws and regulations. New income, sales, use or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted at any time. Further, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to us or our customers. Any changes to these existing tax laws could adversely affect our domestic and international business operations, and our business and financial performance. Additionally, these events could require us or our customers to pay additional tax amounts on a prospective or retroactive basis, as well as require us or our customers to pay fines and/or penalties and interest for past amounts deemed to be due. Additionally, new, changed, modified or newly interpreted or applied tax laws could increase our customers' and our compliance, operating and other costs, as well as the costs of our products. Further, these events could decrease the capital we have available to operate our business. Any or all of these events could adversely impact our business and financial performance.We have recorded a significant deferred tax asset, and we might never realize the full value of our deferred tax asset, which would result in a charge against our earnings.In connection with the initial acquisition of our common stock as part of our recapitalization in 1999, we recorded approximately $107.0 million as a deferred tax asset. As of December 31, 2012, we have deferred tax assets recognized of $87.8 million, of which $13.7 million relates to our 1999 recapitalization.Realization of our deferred tax asset is dependent upon our generating sufficient taxable income in future years to realize the tax benefit from that asset. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at least annually for realizability. A charge against our earnings would result if, based on the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. This could be caused by, among other things, deterioration in performance, loss of key contracts, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products sold by our business and a variety of other factors. If a deferred tax asset was determined to be not realizable in a future period, the charge to earnings would be recognized as an expense in our results of operations in the period the determination is made. Additionally, if we are unable to utilize our deferred tax assets, our cash flow available to fund operations could be adversely effected.Depending on future circumstances, it is possible that we might never realize the full value of our deferred tax asset. Any future determination of impairment of a significant portion of our deferred tax asset would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited.Included in our deferred tax asset balance is $26.9 million related to federal net operating loss carryforwards at December 31, 2012. Our federal net operating loss carryforwards are subject to limitations on how much may be utilized on an annual basis. The use of the net operating loss carryforwards may have additional limitations resulting from certain future ownership changes or other factors set forth in the Internal Revenue Code. If our net operating loss carryforwards are further limited, and we have taxable income which exceeds the available net operating loss carryforwards for that period, we would incur an income tax liability even though net operating loss carryforwards may be available in future years prior to their expiration, which would have an adverse effect on our future cash flow, financial condition and results of operations.Our acquisition of Convio might not be accretive and might cause dilution to the combined company's earnings per share, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock.We currently anticipate that our acquisition of Convio will be accretive to the non-GAAP earnings per share (“EPS”) of the combined company during the first full calendar year after the acquisition is completed. This expectation is based on preliminary estimates of certain synergies expected to be realized by the combined company during such time, including the elimination of Convio's expenses related to operating as a publicly traded company and excluding the impact of merger-related expenses. Such estimates and assumptions could materially change due to the failure to realize any or all of the benefits expected in the acquisition or other factors beyond our control or the control of Convio. All of these factors could delay, decrease or eliminate the expected accretive effect of the acquisition and cause resulting dilution to our non-GAAP EPS or to the price of our common stock.21We might face challenges in integrating our completed acquisitions and, as a result, might not realize the expected benefits of these acquisitions.We have completed significant acquisitions over the past five years including, most recently, our acquisition of Convio. Managing and integrating the operations and personnel of an acquired company can be a complex process. The integration might not be completed rapidly or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. The successful integration of the acquired companies will require, among other things, coordination of various departments, including product development, engineering, sales and marketing and finance. Further, a successful integration of the acquired companies internal control structure will be required. The diversion of the attention of management and any difficulties encountered in this process could cause the disruption of, or a loss of momentum in, sales or product development. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations and personnel of our recently acquired companies, or if there is any significant delay in achieving integration, we will not realize the revenue growth, synergies and other anticipated benefits we expected and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.If we are unable to retain key personnel of our recent acquisitions, our business may suffer. The success of our recent acquisitions will depend in part on our ability to retain their engineering, sales, marketing, development and other personnel. It is possible that these employees might decide to terminate their employment. If key employees terminate their employment, the sales, marketing or development activities of acquired companies might be adversely affected, our management's attention might be diverted from successfully integrating the acquired operations and to hiring suitable replacements and, as a result, our business might suffer.Future acquisitions could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and strain our resources.As part of our business strategy, we have made acquisitions in the past, and, we might acquire additional companies, services and technologies that we feel could complement or expand our business, augment our market coverage, enhance our technical capabilities, provide us with important customer contacts or otherwise offer growth opportunities. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including:•Difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services, accounting and personnel;•Difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers of our acquired companies;•Diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations;•Risks of entering new sectors of the nonprofit industry;•Potential loss of key employees; and•Inability to generate sufficient return on investment.Acquisitions also frequently result in recording of goodwill and other intangible assets, which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our operating results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, our existing stockholders would be diluted which, in turn, could affect the market price of our stock. Moreover, we could finance any acquisition with debt, resulting in higher leverage and interest costs. As a result, if we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments properly, we might not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisition and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. Furthermore, if we incur additional debt to fund acquisitions and are unable to service our debt obligation we may have a greater risk of default under our credit facility.If we are not able to manage our anticipated growth effectively, our operating costs may increase and our operating margins may decrease.We will need to continue to grow our infrastructure to address our acquisition of Convio and other potential market opportunities. Our growth will continue to place, to the extent that we are able to sustain such growth, a strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. If we continue to grow our operations, by way of additional business combinations or otherwise, we may not be effective in enlarging our physical facilities and our systems and our procedures or controls may not be adequate to support such expansion or our business generally. If we are unable to manage our growth, our operating costs may increase and our operating margins may decrease. 22Increasing government regulation could affect our business.We are subject, not only to regulations applicable to businesses generally, but also to laws and regulations directly applicable to electronic commerce and other regulations. Although there are currently few such laws and regulations, state, federal and foreign governments may adopt laws and regulations applicable to our business. Any such legislation or regulation could dampen the growth of the Internet and decrease its acceptance. If such a decline occurs, companies may decide in the future not to use our products and services. Any new laws or regulations in the following areas could affect our business:•User privacy;•Payment processing;•The pricing and taxation of goods and services offered over the Internet;•Taxation of foreign earnings;•The content of websites;•Copyrights;•Consumer protection, including the potential application of “do not call” registry requirements on our customers and consumer backlash in general to direct marketing efforts of our customers;•The online distribution of specific material or content over the Internet; and•The characteristics and quality of products and services offered over the Internet.Pending and enacted legislation at the state and federal levels, including those related to fundraising activities, may also restrict further our information gathering and disclosure practices, for example, by requiring us to comply with extensive and costly registration, reporting or disclosure requirements.Item 1B. Unresolved staff commentsNone.