ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission in evaluating our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and growth prospects would likely be adversely affected. In such an event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. If we are unsuccessful in any of the legal proceedings between us and O2 Micro, Micrel or Taiwan Sumida Electronics, we could be prevented from selling many of our products and/or be required to pay substantial damages or fines. An unfavorable outcome or an additional award of damages, attorney’s fees or an injunction could cause our revenue to decline significantly and could severely harm our business and operating results. We are engaged in various legal proceedings with O2 Micro and Micrel. These proceedings involve various claims and counterclaims in the United States and Taiwan alleging, among other things, patent and trade secret infringement, misappropriation of trade secrets, and unfair competition. O2 Micro has also taken legal action against our wafer manufacturer and various customers and users 11 Table of Contents of our products in Taiwan and the United States, some of which we are indemnifying. See Part 1, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for a description of each of these proceedings. If we or our customers are not ultimately successful in any of these litigations or other litigations that could be brought against us, we could be ordered to pay monetary fines and/or damages. If we are found liable for willful patent infringement or trade secret misappropriation, damages could be doubled or tripled. We and/or our customers could also be prevented from selling some or all of our products, either into Taiwan or in the U.S. Moreover, our customers and end-users could decide not to use our products, our wafer manufacturer could decide to reduce or eliminate its manufacturing of some of our products, or our products or our customers’ accounts payable to us could be seized in Taiwan. Finally, interim developments in these proceedings could increase the volatility in our stock price as the market assesses the impact of such developments on the likelihood that we will or will not ultimately prevail in these proceedings. In addition, we are also engaged in a legal proceeding with Taiwan Sumida Electronics Inc. (TSE), one of our customers. In November 2005, a jury found that TSE infringed one of O2 Micro’s patents. The products that were the subject of the litigation contained some of our products. We had previously entered into an agreement with TSE under which we had agreed to indemnify TSE against claims by O2 Micro. However, in August 2005, we terminated the agreement and sued TSE for material breach of the agreement. In January 2006, TSE filed a counterclaim against us for breach of contract. If we do not ultimately prevail on our contention that TSE materially breached our agreement, we could be required to pay any damages awarded against TSE in favor of O2 Micro. In addition, we have lost some customer orders as a result of the verdict against TSE, and it is possible that additional business may be lost in the future. Given our inability to control the timing and nature of significant events in our legal proceedings, our legal expenses are difficult to forecast and may vary substantially from our publicly-disclosed forecasts with respect to any given quarter, which could contribute to increased volatility in our stock price and business. Until our legal proceedings with O2 Micro, TSE, and Micrel are resolved, we will continue to incur significant legal expenses that vary with the level of activity in each of these proceedings. This level of activity is not within our control as we may need to respond to legal actions by the opposing parties or scheduling decisions by the judges. Consequently, it is difficult for us to forecast our legal expenses for any given quarter, which adversely affects our ability to forecast our expected results of operations in general. If we fail to meet the expectations of securities or industry analysts as a result of unexpected increases in our legal expenses, our stock price could decline. Our ongoing legal proceedings and the potential for additional legal proceedings have diverted financial and management resources. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims of infringement and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights, such as our litigation matters with O2, and Micrel. Patent infringement is an ongoing risk, in part because other companies in our industry could have patent rights that may not be identifiable when we initiate development efforts. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, and we may have to defend ourselves against additional infringement claims. Such litigation is very costly. For example, we spent $19.9 million, or 20.0% of revenue, for the year ended December 31, 2005, and $7.8 million, or 16.5% of revenue, for the year ended December 31, 2004 on patent litigation legal fees and expenses, not including the $3.5 million provision for the O2 case, or 3.6% of revenue, for the year ended December 31, 2005. In the event any third party were to make a new infringement claim against us or our customers, we could incur additional ongoing legal expenses. Our management team could also be required to devote so much time, effort and energy to the legal proceedings that the rest of our business may suffer. 12 Table of Contents We have a history of losses, and we may not sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. The fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 was our first profitable full year of operations. Prior to this year we had incurred losses on an annual basis since our inception. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $15.1 million. We expect to incur significant operating expenses over the next several years in connection with the continued development and expansion of our business. Our operating expenses include general and administrative expenses, selling and marketing expenses, litigation expenses, stock based compensation expenses, and research and development expenses relating to products that will not be introduced and will not generate revenue until later periods, if at all. In addition, we expect to continue to incur significant legal expenses associated with the litigations in which we are involved. We may not achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. We do not expect to sustain our recent growth rate. Due primarily to increased sales of our DC to DC converter and LCD backlight inverter product families, we have experienced significant revenue growth in a relatively short period of time. Specifically, our annual revenue increased from $12.2 million in 2002 to $24.2 million in 2003 to $47.6 million in 2004 to $99.1 million in 2005. We do not expect similar degrees of revenue growth gains in future periods. Ongoing litigation with O2 and the recent adverse jury verdicts in two cases have resulted in some lost revenue and orders. In addition, certain of our distributors overestimated their own end customer demand and/or underestimated their own inventory. As a result, they ordered more of our products in the fourth quarter of 2005 than they needed to fulfill their end customers’ requirements. Accordingly, our shipments to these distributors in the first quarter of 2006 have been lower than expected. Our current backlog coverage is at a lower rate than it has been at this point in recent quarters, but is consistent with the rate in the same quarters of 2003 and 2004. You should not rely on results of any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future operating performance. Due to our limited operating history and the nature of our business as a component supplier, we may have difficulty both in accurately predicting our future revenue and appropriately budgeting for our expenses. We were incorporated in 1997 and did not begin generating meaningful revenue until 2000. As a result, we have only a short history from which to predict future revenue and budget our expenses. Our limited operating experience combined with the rapidly evolving nature of the markets into which we sell our products, as well as other factors beyond our control, reduce our ability to accurately forecast quarterly or annual revenue or our expected expenses. We provide components for end products and systems, and therefore demand for our products is influenced by demand for the ultimate end product built by our customers and their end customers. Our revenue depends on the timing, size, and speed of commercial introductions of end products and systems that use our products, all of which are inherently difficult to forecast, as well as the ongoing demand for previously introduced end products and systems. In addition, demand for our products is influenced by our customers’ management of their own inventory. Our sales to distributors are subject to higher risk and may be more volatile because they service demand from other companies which is difficult to forecast accurately. If our distributors do not manage their inventory correctly, or misjudge their own customers’ demand, our shipments to and orders from our distributors may vary unpredictably on a quarter to quarter basis. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2005, certain of our distributors overestimated their own end customer demand and/or underestimated their existing inventory and, as a result, ordered more of our products than they needed to fulfill their customer requirements. Accordingly, our shipments to these distributors in the first quarter of 2006 are lower than our normal seasonality would predict, and we expect our operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 to be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents We expect our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance and could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue, expenses, and results of operations are difficult to predict, have varied significantly in the past and will continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For example, our revenue for the first quarter of each year tends to be significantly less than the revenue for the last quarter of the previous year. We expect fluctuations to continue for a number of reasons, including: Ÿ the timing of developments and the related expenses in our litigation matters with O2, Micrel, TSE and any future litigation; Ÿ the possibility of additional lost business as a result of customer and prospective customer concerns about adverse outcomes in our litigations or about being litigation targets; Ÿ the timing of new product introductions by us and our competitors; Ÿ our ability to develop new process technologies and achieve volume production; Ÿ the scheduling, rescheduling, or cancellation of orders by our customers; Ÿ the cyclical nature of demand for our customers’ products; Ÿ inventory levels and product obsolescence; Ÿ seasonality and variability in the computer, consumer electronics, and wireless markets; Ÿ our rapid growth rate; Ÿ the availability of adequate manufacturing capacity from our outside suppliers; Ÿ changes in manufacturing yields; Ÿ general economic conditions in the countries where our products are sold or used; and Ÿ movements in exchange rates, interest rates, or tax rates. Due to the factors noted above and other risks described in this section, many of which are beyond our control, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter or year-over-year comparisons to predict our future financial performance. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors may seriously harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. The highly cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, which has produced significant and sometimes prolonged downturns, could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. The semiconductor industry has historically been highly cyclical and, at various times, has experienced significant downturns and wide fluctuations in supply and demand. These conditions have caused significant variances in product demand and production capacity, as well as rapid erosion of average selling prices. Although the semiconductor industry experienced increased demand in 2005, the industry may experience severe or prolonged downturns in the future, which could result in pricing pressure on our products as well as lower demand for our products. Because a significant portion of our expenses is fixed in the short term or is incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall of sales. This could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. 14 Table of Contents If demand for our products declines in the major end markets that we serve, our revenue will decrease. We believe that applications of our products in the computer, consumer electronics, networking and wireless markets will continue to account for a majority of our revenue. If demand for our products declines in the major end markets that we serve, our revenue will decrease. For example, as technology develops over time, there is increased ability to integrate the functionalities of various components, including our discrete semiconductor products, onto a single chip and/or onto other components of systems containing our products. Should our customers begin seeking integrated solutions that we do not offer, demand for our products could decrease, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. As another example, approximately one third of our business is based on products that are used in systems that contain cold cathode fluorescent lighting. CCFL tubes contain mercury, which is the subject of environmental concerns, particularly in Europe, for example. Should environmental issues impair the widespread use of CCFL-based products, and should we be unable to ramp up replacement products based on LED lighting fast enough to compensate for loss of CCFL-related business, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We receive a significant portion of our revenue from a small number of customers, and the loss of any one of these customers or failure to collect a receivable from them could adversely affect our operations and financial position. We market our products through distribution arrangements and through our direct sales and applications support organization to customers that include original equipment manufacturers, original design manufacturers, and electronic manufacturing service providers. Receivables from our customers are not secured by any type of collateral and are subject to the risk of being uncollectible. Significant deterioration in the liquidity or financial condition of any of our major customers or any group of our customers could have a material adverse impact on the collectibility of our accounts receivable and our future operating results. We primarily conduct our sales on a purchase order basis, rather than pursuant to long-term supply contracts. The loss of any significant customer, any material reduction in orders by any of our significant customers or by their OEM customers, the cancellation of a significant customer order, or the cancellation or delay of a customer’s or OEM’s significant program or product could reduce our revenue and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Moreover, we believe a high percentage of our products are eventually sold to a number of original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs. Although we communicate with OEMs in an attempt to achieve “design wins,” which are decisions by OEMs and/or original design manufacturers to use our products, we do not have purchase commitments from these end users. Therefore, there can be no assurance that they will continue to choose to incorporate our ICs into their products. We cannot be certain that we will continue to achieve design wins from large OEMs, that our direct customers will continue to be successful in selling to OEMs, or that the OEMs will be successful in selling products which incorporate our ICs. We purchase inventory in advance based on expected demand for our products, and if demand is not as expected, we may have insufficient or excess inventory, which could adversely impact our financial position. As a fabless semiconductor company, we purchase our inventory from third party manufacturers in advance of selling our product. We place orders with our manufacturers based on existing and expected orders from our customers for particular products. While our contracts with our customers 15 Table of Contents and distributors include lead time requirements and cancellation penalties that are designed to protect us from misalignment between customer orders and inventory levels, we must nonetheless make some predictions when we place orders with our manufacturers. In the event that our predictions are inaccurate due to unexpected increases in orders or unavailability of product within the time frame that we need it, we could have insufficient inventory to meet demand, which could have an adverse impact on our business and financial position. In the event that we order product that we are unable to sell due to a decrease in orders, unexpected order cancellations or product returns, we would have excess inventory which, if we were unable ultimately to sell it, we would be required to scrap. We are a small public company that has recently experienced a rapid rate of growth. If we fail to make continued improvements to our internal systems and staffing, particularly in the accounting and finance functions, and to manage the related expenses, our business may suffer. As a small public company that has undergone a rapid rate of growth, we have experienced a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems that has, among other things, adversely affected our internal control over financial reporting. The accounting errors that resulted in the recent restatement of previously filed financial statements were due, in part, to insufficient resources in our finance department. We engaged outside consultants to assist us with these restatements because we did not have adequate internal resources to complete this task on our own. If we fail to adequately staff our accounting and finance function with permanent personnel and maintain internal controls that meet the demands of our business, our ability to operate effectively will suffer. Because of the limited number of personnel in our finance department, the operation of our business depends upon our ability to retain these employees while we continue to improve controls and add additional personnel. These employees hold a significant amount of institutional knowledge about the company, and, if they were to terminate their employment, our internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected. We have a complex international tax structure which could lead to unfavorable adjustments by the Internal Revenue Service or other tax authorities. We have a complex international tax structure. Our calculation of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on certain estimates and judgments and involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Our estimates of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities may change based, in part, on added certainty or finality to an anticipated outcome, changes in accounting or tax laws in the United States, or U.S., or foreign jurisdictions where we operate, or changes in other facts or circumstances. In addition, we recognize liabilities for potential U.S. and foreign income tax contingencies based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes may be due. If we determine that payment of these amounts is unnecessary or if the recorded tax liability is less than our current assessment, we may be required to recognize an income tax benefit or additional income tax expense in our financial statements. Such an adjustment could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks in connection with the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and any related remedial measures that we undertake. In accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we included in this annual report on Form 10-K a management report regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. This report must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. In preparation for issuing this management report, we documented, evaluated and tested our internal control over financial reporting. 16 Table of Contents As a result of various accounting errors, we recently restated our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the first and second quarters of 2005. In conjunction with these restatements and our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we have identified certain material weaknesses, as follows: Ÿ A material weakness in the design and operating effectiveness of controls over the accuracy and disclosure of stock-based compensation expense in conformity with GAAP. Specifically, we did not maintain effective controls over the following: i) the completeness and accuracy of the accounting for option cancellations, and ii) the accuracy of the recording of stock-based compensation. These control deficiencies led to a misstatement of stock-based compensation expense that resulted in a material misstatement to the financial statements in prior periods which was not prevented or detected. Ÿ A material weakness in the design and operating effectiveness of controls over the accounting for income taxes, including the calculation of the income tax provision and related deferred tax assets and liabilities. This control deficiency led to a misstatement of the deferred tax asset and related tax provision that resulted in a material misstatement to the financial statements in the prior periods which was not prevented or detected. Ÿ A material weakness in the operating effectiveness of controls over the financial close, budgeting and reporting process. Specifically, we did not maintain effective controls over the following: i) completing a reconciliation for all key accounts each month, and ii) a detailed review of the actual results versus the budgeted results for each period. Ÿ A material weakness in the operating effectiveness of controls over allocation of expenses to the appropriate accounting period. Ÿ A material weakness in the control environment due to an insufficient number of qualified resources with required proficiency to apply our accounting policies. We cannot be certain that the measures we have already taken and are planning to take to remediate the material weaknesses will sufficiently and satisfactorily address these identified material weaknesses in full. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that we will not discover additional material weaknesses in the future. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period, or we continue to experience material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which may have an adverse effect on our stock price and potentially subject us to litigation. The loss of any of our key personnel or the failure to attract or retain specialized technical and management personnel could impair our ability to grow our business. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. We are particularly dependent upon the continued services of our key executives, including Michael Hsing, our President and Chief Executive Officer, who founded our company and developed our proprietary process technology. Also, personnel with highly skilled analog and mixed-signal design engineering expertise are scarce and competition for personnel with these skills is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain existing key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, integrating or retaining other highly qualified personnel with critical capabilities in the future. If we are unable to retain the services of existing key employees or are unsuccessful in attracting new highly qualified employees quickly enough to meet the demands or our business, including design cycles, our business could be harmed. 17 Table of Contents We currently depend on one third-party supplier to provide us with wafers for our products. If our wafer supplier fails to provide us sufficient wafers at acceptable yields and at anticipated costs, our revenue and gross margin may decline. We have a supply arrangement with ASMC for the production of wafers. Although certain aspects of our relationship with ASMC are contractual, many important aspects of this relationship depend on their continued cooperation and our management relationships. We began this relationship with ASMC in 2001 and commenced volume production at ASMC’s facilities in the first half of 2003. O2 has sued ASMC in two cases for patent infringement based on its manufacture of our products, and it is possible that our relationship with ASMC could be materially and adversely affected by the O2 litigation. In addition, the fabrication of ICs is a highly complex and precise process. Problems in the fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous ICs on each wafer to be non-functional, thereby reducing yields. The failure of ASMC to supply us wafers at acceptable yields could prevent us from fulfilling our customers’ orders for our products and would likely cause a decline in our revenue. Although we provide ASMC with rolling forecasts of our production requirements, its ability to provide wafers to us is limited by the available capacity of the facilities in which it manufactures wafers for us. An increased need for capacity to meet internal demands or demands of other customers could cause ASMC to reduce capacity available to us. ASMC may also require us to pay amounts in excess of contracted or anticipated amounts for wafer deliveries or require us to make other concessions in order to acquire the wafer supply necessary to meet our customers’ requirements. If ASMC extends lead times, limits supplies, or increases prices due to capacity constraints or other factors, our revenue and gross margin may decline. Further, as is common in the semiconductor industry, our customers may reschedule or cancel orders on relatively short notice. Under our agreement with ASMC, we have an option to order wafers based on a committed forecast that can cover a period of one to six months. If our customers cancel orders after we have submitted to ASMC a committed forecast for the corresponding wafers, we may be required to purchase wafers that we may not be able to resell, which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. We might not be able to deliver our products on a timely basis if our relationships with our assembly and test subcontractors are disrupted or terminated. All of our products are assembled by third-party subcontractors and a significant percentage of our testing is currently performed by third-party subcontractors. We do not have any long-term agreements with these subcontractors. As a result, we may not have direct control over product delivery schedules or product quality. Also, due to the amount of time typically required to qualify assembly and test subcontractors, we could experience delays in the shipment of our products if we were forced to find alternate third parties to assemble or test our products. Any future product delivery delays or disruptions in our relationships with our subcontractors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. Failure to protect our proprietary technologies or maintain the right to certain technologies may negatively affect our ability to compete. We rely heavily on our proprietary technologies. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain protection of certain proprietary technologies used in our products. We pursue patents for some of our new products and unique technologies, and we also rely on a combination of nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, as well as our employees’ commitment to confidentiality and loyalty, to protect our technology, know-how, and 18 Table of Contents processes. Despite the precautions we take, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy aspects of our current or future technology or products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Moreover, in our recent trial in Oakland, California against O2, the jury returned a verdict holding that a number of the claims of two of our patents covering elements of our CCFL technology are invalid. We intend to continue protecting our proprietary technology, including through patents. There can be no assurance that the steps we take will be adequate to protect our proprietary rights, that our patent applications will lead to issued patents, that others will not develop or patent similar or superior products or technologies, or that our patents will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by others. Furthermore, the laws of the countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured, or sold may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could harm our business. We derive a substantial majority of our revenue from direct or indirect sales to foreign customers and have significant foreign operations, which may expose us to political, regulatory, economic, foreign exchange, and operational risks. We derive a substantial majority of our revenue from direct or indirect sales to foreign customers, from sales either directly to or through distribution arrangements to parties located in Asia, a majority of which represent revenue from parties with whom we have distribution arrangements for resale to users of our products in Taiwan. As a result, we are subject to increased risks due to this concentration of business and operations. In 2005, 98% of our revenue was from foreign customers. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: Ÿ changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, including tax laws in the United States and in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products; Ÿ trade restrictions, including restrictions imposed by the United States government on trading with parties in foreign countries; Ÿ transportation delays; Ÿ international political relationships and threats of war; Ÿ terrorism and threats of terrorism; Ÿ epidemics and illnesses; Ÿ work stoppages; Ÿ economic and political instability; Ÿ changes in import/export regulations, tariffs, and freight rates; Ÿ longer accounts receivable collection cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivables; Ÿ enforcing contracts generally; Ÿ currency exchange rate fluctuations impacting intra-company transactions; and Ÿ less effective protection of intellectual property and contractual arrangements. Devaluation of the U.S. Dollar relative to other foreign currencies, including the Chinese Yuan, may adversely affect results of operations. Our manufacturing and packaging suppliers are and will be substantially located in China. The recent decision of the Chinese Government to let its currency float against a “basket of international currencies” may devalue the U.S. Dollar against the Chinese Yuan. Should the value of the Chinese 19 Table of Contents Yuan continue to rise against the U.S. Dollar, there could be an increase in our manufacturing costs relative to competitors who have manufacturing facilities located in the U.S., which could adversely affect our operations. In addition, because we collect payments from all customers in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could have an adverse impact on our customers’ business, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. We and our manufacturing partners are or will be subject to extensive Chinese government regulation, and may receive the benefit of various incentives from Chinese governments that include conditions or may be reduced or eliminated, any of which could increase our costs or limit our ability to sell products and conduct activities in China. Most of our manufacturing partners, including ASMC, our current foundry, are located in China. In addition, we are currently in the process of establishing a facility in China, initially for the testing of our ICs. The Chinese government has broad discretion and authority to regulate the technology industry in China. China’s government has implemented policies from time to time to regulate economic expansion in China. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. New regulations or the readjustment of previously implemented regulations could require us and our manufacturing partners to change our business plans, increase our costs, or limit our ability to sell products and conduct activities in China, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, the Chinese government and provincial and local governments have provided, and continue to provide, various incentives to encourage the development of the semiconductor industry in China. Such incentives include tax rebates, reduced tax rates, favorable lending policies, and other measures, some or all of which may be available to our manufacturing partners and to us with respect to the facility we are establishing in China. Any of these incentives could be reduced or eliminated by governmental authorities at any time. Any such reduction or elimination of incentives currently provided to our manufacturing partners could adversely affect our business and operating results. We may incur additional delays and expenses in connection with the establishment of our testing facility in China, which could increase product costs and restrict our capacity to meet demand for our products. We have constructed a new testing facility in China and have begun limited operations. When the facility is fully operational, we expect to better manage our expenses and reduce the risks that are specific to utilizing third party testing facilities. In addition, we believe we need the capacity provided by this facility in order to meet anticipated demand for our products in the second half of 2006. However, the establishment of a testing facility in China involves its own risks and uncertainties. In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in this section, we face the following risks, among others: Ÿ that we will be unable to establish appropriate and acceptable manufacturing controls; Ÿ that we will not achieve ISO certification for the facility, timely or at all; Ÿ that we will be unable to establish sufficient controls and processes for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and Ÿ that our overhead and other costs of operation will be higher than anticipated. If we are unable to attain fully operational status with appropriate controls, processes, and certifications in a timely manner, we may incur higher costs than our current expense levels, which would affect our gross margins. In addition, we may not have sufficient capacity to meet demand for 20 Table of Contents our products in the second half of 2006. If significant delays occur, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products or in penetrating new markets required to maintain or expand our business. Our competitiveness and future success depend on our ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market, and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. A fundamental shift in technologies in any of our product markets could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position within these markets. Our failure to develop new technologies or to react to changes in existing technologies could materially delay our development of new products, which could result in product obsolescence, decreased revenue, and/or a loss of market share to competitors. As we develop new product lines, we must adapt to market conditions that are unfamiliar to us, such as competitors and distribution channels that are different from those we have known in the past. Some of our new product lines require us to re-equip our labs to test parameters we have not tested in the past. If we are unable to adapt rapidly to these new and additional conditions, we may not be able to successfully penetrate new markets. The success of a new product depends on accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, as well as on a variety of specific implementation factors, including: Ÿ timely and efficient completion of process design and device structure improvements; Ÿ timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing, assembly, and test processes; Ÿ product performance; Ÿ the quality and reliability of the product; and Ÿ effective marketing, sales and service. To the extent that we fail to introduce new products or penetrate new markets, our revenue and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Because of the lengthy sales cycles for our products and the fixed nature of a significant portion of our expenses, we may incur substantial expenses before we earn associated revenue and may not ultimately achieve our forecasted sales for our products. The introduction of new products presents significant business challenges because product development plans and expenditures must be made up to two years or more in advance of any sales. It takes us up to 12 months or more to design and manufacture a new product prototype. Only after we have a prototype do we introduce the product to the market and begin selling efforts in an attempt to achieve design wins. This sales process, which averages 6 to 12 months, requires us to expend significant sales and marketing resources without any assurance of success. Volume production of products that use our ICs, if any, may not be achieved for an additional 3 to 6 months after an initial sale. Sales cycles for our products are lengthy for a number of reasons: Ÿ our customers usually complete an in-depth technical evaluation of our products before they place a purchase order; Ÿ the commercial adoption of our products by original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and original device manufacturers is typically limited during the initial release of their product to evaluate product performance and consumer demand; Ÿ our products must be designed into a customer’s product or system; and 21 Table of Contents Ÿ the development and commercial introduction of our customers’ products incorporating new technologies frequently are delayed. As a result of our lengthy sales cycles, we may incur substantial expenses before we earn associated revenue because a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed and based on expected revenue. The lengthy sales cycles of our products also make forecasting the volume and timing of orders difficult. In addition, the delays inherent in lengthy sales cycles raise additional risks that customers may cancel or change their orders. Our sales are made by purchase orders. Because industry practice allows customers to reschedule or cancel orders on relatively short notice, backlog is not always a good indicator of our future sales. If customer cancellations or product changes occur, we could lose anticipated sales and not have sufficient time to reduce our inventory and operating expenses. Our products must meet exacting specifications, and undetected defects and failures may occur, which may cause customers to return or stop buying our products and may expose us to product liability risk. Our customers generally establish demanding specifications for quality, performance, and reliability that our products must meet. Integrated circuits as complex as ours often encounter development delays and may contain undetected defects or failures when first introduced or after commencement of commercial shipments, which might require product replacement or recall. We have from time to time in the past experienced product quality, performance or reliability problems. We have recently extended our standard warranty period from 90 days to one year. As a result, we now have an increased risk of claims for defects and failures. If defects and failures occur in our products, we could experience lost revenue, increased costs, including warranty expense and costs associated with customer support, delays in or cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, and product returns or discounts, any of which would harm our operating results. In addition, product liability claims may be asserted with respect to our technology or products. Although we currently have insurance, there can be no assurance that we have obtained a sufficient amount of insurance coverage, that asserted claims will be within the scope of coverage of the insurance, or that we will have sufficient resources to satisfy any asserted claims. We intend to expand our operations, which may strain our resources and increase our operating expenses. We plan to expand our operations, domestically and internationally, and may do so through internal growth, strategic relationships, or acquisitions, including but not limited to the ongoing establishment of a testing facility in China. We expect that any such expansion will strain our systems and operational and financial controls, some of which are already in need of improvement as evidenced by the material weaknesses that are described in Item 9A of this annual report on Form 10-K. In addition, we are likely to incur significantly higher operating costs. To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our systems and controls, as well as hire experienced administrative and financial personnel. If we fail to do so, our growth will be limited. If we fail to effectively manage our planned expansion of operations, our business and operating results may be harmed. We compete against many companies with substantially greater financing and other resources, and our market share may be reduced if we are unable to respond to our competitors effectively. The analog and mixed-signal semiconductor industry is highly competitive, and we expect competitive pressures to continue. Our ability to compete effectively and to expand our business will 22 Table of Contents depend on our ability to continue to recruit applications and design talent, our ability to introduce new products, and our ability to maintain the rate at which we introduce these new products. We compete with several domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of their products. We are in direct and active competition, with respect to one or more of our product lines, with at least 10 manufacturers of such products, of varying size and financial strength. The number of our competitors has grown due to expansion of the market segments in which we participate. We consider our competitors to include, but not be limited to; Intersil Corporation, Linear, Maxim Integrated Products, Micrel, Microsemi, National Semiconductor Corporation, O2, Semtech Corporation, STMicroelectronic, Fairchild Semiconductor, Analog Devices and Texas Instruments. We expect continued competition from existing competitors as well as competition from new entrants in the semiconductor market. We cannot assure you that our products will continue to compete favorably or that we will be successful in the face of increasing competition from new products and enhancements introduced by existing competitors or new companies entering this market, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition. Major earthquakes or other natural disasters and resulting systems outages may cause us significant losses. Our corporate headquarters, the production facilities of our third-party wafer supplier, a portion of our assembly and research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located in or near seismically active regions and are subject to periodic earthquakes. We do not maintain earthquake insurance and could be materially and adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake. Much of our revenue, as well as our manufacturers and assemblers, are concentrated in Southeast Asia. Such concentration increases the risk that other natural disasters, labor strikes, terrorism, war, political unrest, epidemics, and/or health advisories could disrupt our operations. In addition, we rely heavily on our internal information and communications systems and on systems or support services from third parties to manage our operations efficiently and effectively. Any of these are subject to failure due to a natural disaster or other disruption. System-wide or local failures that affect our information processing could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. We may engage in future acquisitions that dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders and cause us to incur debt or to assume contingent liabilities, and we may be unable to successfully integrate these companies into our operations, which would adversely affect our business. As a part of our business strategy, we may review acquisition prospects that would complement our current product offerings, enhance our design capability or offer other growth opportunities. In the event of future acquisitions, we could use a significant portion of our available cash, issue equity securities which would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership, and/or incur substantial debt or contingent liabilities. Such actions by us could impact our operating results and/or the price of our common stock. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in integrating any acquired company into our operations or if integration is more difficult than anticipated, we may experience disruptions that could harm our business. 23 Table of Contents The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors. The future trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: Ÿ the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; Ÿ developments generally affecting the semiconductor industry; Ÿ commencement of or developments relating to our involvement in litigation, including the ongoing O2, and Micrel litigation matters; Ÿ investor perceptions of us and our business; Ÿ changes in securities analysts’ expectations or our failure to meet those expectations; Ÿ actions by institutional or other large stockholders; Ÿ terrorist acts; Ÿ actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; Ÿ developments with respect to intellectual property rights; Ÿ announcements of technological innovations or significant contracts by us or our competitors; Ÿ introduction of new products by us or our competitors; Ÿ our sale of common stock or other securities in the future; Ÿ conditions and trends in technology industries; Ÿ changes in market valuation or earnings of our competitors; Ÿ changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rate of our markets; Ÿ our results of operations and financial performance; and Ÿ general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, the stock market in general often experiences substantial volatility that is seemingly unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend on the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of the Company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Because of their significant stock ownership, our officers and directors will be able to exert significant influence over our future direction. Executive officers, directors, and affiliated entities beneficially own in aggregate, approximately 33% of our outstanding common stock. Additionally, Jim Jones, one of our directors, is associated with 24 Table of Contents BAVP, LP, which owns approximately 7% of our outstanding common stock and Herbert Chang, one of our directors, is associated with InveStar, which owns approximately 14% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if acting together, would be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 