ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves significant risk, including the risks identified below and in our Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, filings that are incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or that we currently believe are immaterial could also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In any case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of operating losses. We are a company with a limited operating history. Since our inception, we have incurred significant operating losses. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $31.0 million. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, such as the risk factors described in this section, including our ability to maintain our existing cost structure and return on sales and to execute our business and strategic plans as currently conceived. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues to achieve profitability. Even if we achieve profitability, we may be unable to maintain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We may be unable to compete successfully against new and existing competitors. We operate in a highly competitive market with few barriers to entry. We expect that competition will continue to intensify. As we expand our operations in the pharmaceutical distribution business, we will encounter competition from other companies in the distribution business and that manufacture over-the-counter, or OTC, prescription drugs, and we may face future competition from new foreign and domestic competitors entering the pharmaceutical promotion and distribution market in China. Some of our competitors are more established than we are, and have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Many of our competitors have greater name recognition and a larger customer base than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities and customer requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional and distribution activities, offer more attractive terms to customers, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Competition could reduce our market share or force us to lower our prices to unprofitable levels. If we fail to increase our brand recognition, we may face difficulty in obtaining new customers and business partners. We believe that establishing, maintaining and enhancing our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our current and future services and is an important element in our effort to increase our customer base and obtain new business partners. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market develops. Some of our potential competitors already have well-established brands in the pharmaceutical promotion and distribution industry. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on our ability to maintain a sizeable and active customer base, our marketing efforts and our ability to provide reliable and useful services at competitive prices. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract enough new customers or retain our existing customers to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, in which case our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. 17 We may be unsuccessful in our strategy of expanding our product portfolio, acquiring complementary businesses or integrating acquired businesses. Our business strategy includes expanding our business capabilities through both internal growth and the acquisition of complementary businesses and licensing pharmaceutical products for marketing and distribution in China. We may be unable to find additional complementary businesses to acquire or we may be unable to enter into additional agreements to market and distribute pharmaceutical products. Future acquisitions or joint ventures may result in substantial per share financial dilution of our common stock from the issuance of equity securities. Completion of future acquisitions also would expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with: • the assimilation of new operations, technologies and personnel; • unforeseen or hidden liabilities; • the diversion of resources from our existing businesses; • the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions; and • the potential loss of, or harm to relationships with, employees, customers and suppliers as a result of the integration of new businesses. The commercial success of our products depends upon the degree of market acceptance among the medical community. Failure to attain market acceptance among the medical community would have an adverse impact on our operations and profitability. The commercial success of our products depends upon the degree of market acceptance they achieve among the Chinese medical community, particularly physicians and hospitals. Physicians might not prescribe or recommend our products to patients, and procurement departments of hospitals might not purchase our products. The acceptance of any of our products among the medical community will depend upon several factors, including: • the safety and effectiveness of the product; • the effectiveness of our efforts to market our products to hospitals and physicians; • the product’s cost effectiveness; • the product’s perceived advantages and disadvantages relative to competing products or treatments; and • the prevalence and severity of side effects. If our products fail to attain market acceptance among the medical community, our operations and profitability would be adversely affected. 18 We may experience delays in product introduction and marketing or interruptions in supply. Our revenues are dependent on the ability of the manufacturers and distributors with which we associate to supply and distribute product to our customers. If delays occur, or manufacturers and distributors are unable to supply and distribute product to our customers in a timely manner, our operating results and financial condition will suffer. In addition, our contracts with pharmaceutical owners and manufacturers relating to some of the products in our product portfolio have a limited duration and have minimum sales requirements that, if not met, could lead to termination or non-renewal of the contract, or the ability of the manufacturer to render the contract non-exclusive, which could harm our revenues. In addition, Sunstone purchases raw materials from a limited number of suppliers, but we believe that other suppliers could provide similar raw materials on comparable terms. A change in suppliers, however, could cause a delay in manufacturing and a possible loss of sales, which would affect operating results adversely. The recent financial crisis and current uncertainty in global economic conditions could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the current uncertainty in global economic conditions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from these economic developments on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer insolvencies; counterparty failures negatively impacting our treasury operations; decreased customer confidence; and decreased customer demand, including order delays or cancellations. Our stock price may be volatile. Our common stock price may be volatile. The stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • the success of competitive products or technologies; • regulatory developments in China; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; • the recruitment or departure of key personnel; • variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • market conditions in the our industry and issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; and • general economic, industry and market conditions. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented, and adverse capital and credit market conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective sources of funding. The capital and credit markets recently have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. Liquidity has contracted significantly, borrowing rates have increased, and borrowing terms have become more restrictive. Historically, we have believed that we could access these markets to support our business activities, including operations, acquisitions, and refinancing debt. In the future, we may not be able to obtain credit or capital market financing on acceptable terms, or at all, which could have an adverse effect on the our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, the state of the capital and credit markets could also affect other entities with which we do business, including our commercial and other clients and our suppliers, subcontractors, and team members, which could also have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. 19 Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of factors beyond our control. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • the costs of pharmaceutical products and development; • the relative speed and success with which we can obtain and maintain customers, merchants and vendors for our services and manufacturers and suppliers of products to market to our customers; • capital expenditures for equipment; • marketing and promotional activities and other costs; • changes in our pricing policies, suppliers and competitors; • the ability of our suppliers to provide products in a timely manner to our customers; • changes in operating expenses; • increased competition in our markets; and • other general economic and seasonal factors. We may be required to write off goodwill or other intangible assets in the future. If we are required to write off goodwill or other intangible assets, our financial position or results of operations could be adversely affected. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we review our goodwill and other indefinite-lived assets for impairment each year as of December 31 and during interim periods when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. The carrying value of our goodwill may not be recoverable due to factors such as a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. Estimates of future cash flows are based on an updated long-term financial outlook of our operations. However, actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could adversely impact future estimates. We may be unable to obtain additional capital when necessary and on terms that are acceptable to us. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our ability to maintain our existing cost structure and return on sales and execute our business and strategic plans as currently conceived. We expect that we will need significant additional cash resources to operate and expand our business in the future and we may attempt to raise additional funds through public or private financing or from other sources. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional indebtedness would result in additional debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. In addition, financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are not able to raise additional capital through fund raising activities we could be forced to curtail some of the currently anticipated expenditures in the above mentioned areas. Should we be forced to do this it could have an impact on our anticipated future growth. 20 We may be unsuccessful in attracting or retaining key sales, marketing and other personnel. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managers and sales and marketing personnel. Beijing Medpharm Co. Ltd., or BMP China, Sunstone and Beijing Wanwei Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., or Wanwei, sales and marketing personnel carry out critical promotional and sales activities of BMP China, Sunstone and Wanwei. We depend, and will continue to depend in the foreseeable future, on the personal efforts and abilities of David Gao, our chief executive officer, Zhiqiang Han, our President, Fred M. Powell, our chief financial officer, and Yanping Zhao, our corporate vice president, and other officers and key employees. The loss of these officers or our other key management persons could harm our business and prospects for growth. There is intense competition for qualified sales and marketing personnel, and we may be unable to attract, assimilate or retain additional qualified sales and marketing personnel on a timely basis. Our inability to retain key personnel or the failure to attract additional qualified personnel could harm our development and results of operations. In addition, as we plan to expand in China, we will need to attract additional qualified managerial staff and other personnel. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified personnel to work in China. This may impede the development of our distribution business and the expansion of our business in China. In addition to the abilities and continued services of our current executive management team, the combined company’s success depends in large part on the abilities and continued service of each of the current executives of Sunstone China and Sunstone, as well as our other key employees. Although we have employment agreements in place with each of our current executive officers, the combined company may not be able to retain the services of these individuals and the loss of their services, in the absence of adequate replacements, would harm the combined company’s ability to implement its business strategy and operate its business effectively. We may be unable to manage our growth effectively. Our business strategy is based on the assumption that we will access additional distribution channels in the future and that the number of our customers and the extent of our operations will grow. Our ability to compete effectively and to manage our future growth, if any, requires us to: • continue to improve our financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures to support the proposed expansion of our business operations as a result of our acquisition of Sunstone and the acquisition of any additional distribution channels in the future; and • locate or hire, at reasonable compensation rates, qualified personnel and other employees necessary to expand our capacity in order to accommodate the proposed expansion of our business operations. If we are unable to accomplish any of these objectives, we will be unsuccessful in effectively managing our growth, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We only offer products and services related to pharmaceuticals and if demand for these products and services decreases, or if competition increases, we will have no other ways to generate revenue. Our future results depend on continued market acceptance of pharmaceutical products and services in China and our ability to continue to adapt to the changing needs of our customers. Any reduction in demand or increase in competition in the market for pharmaceutical products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Product sales by Sunstone are concentrated in a limited number of products. Sunstone derives a substantial portion of its revenue from the sales of Pediatric Paracetamol and Amantadine Hydrochloride Granules, Xiao’er Huatan Zhike Granules, Xiao’er Kechuan Ling Oral Solution, Jianer Xiahoshi Oral Solution, and Compound Zedoary Turmeric Oil. As Sunstone China expects sales of these products to continue to comprise a substantial portion of total revenues in the future, any factors adversely affecting the sales of any of these products will have a material adverse effect on Sunstone China’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Competition for sales to pharmaceutical distributors in China is intense. Sunstone sells its products to approximately 350 pharmaceutical distributors in China. Sales to distributors account for substantially all of Sunstone’s revenues. Sunstone does not have distribution agreements longer than two years and competes for desired distributors with other pharmaceutical manufacturers. Consequently, maintaining relationships with existing distributors and replacing distributors may be difficult and time-consuming. Any disruption of Sunstone’s distribution network, including its failure to renew its existing distribution agreements with desired distributors, could negatively affect its ability to effectively sell its products and could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business strategy to use our marketing arm to create demand for products that we will offer exclusively through a distribution arm may fail. Our business strategy depends in large part on our ability to establish exclusive distribution and marketing relationships with pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers and to leverage our marketing arm to create demand for products that we will distribute exclusively through a distribution arm. A number of factors could hinder the success of this strategy, including, among other things, our failure to: • obtain a sufficient number of effective distribution channels, whether through internal growth or strategic acquisition; • create sufficient demand for products that we will distribute exclusively; and • enter into and maintain exclusive distribution and marketing relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers on profitable terms. If we are unable to implement this strategy effectively, our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. If we are unable to continue to satisfy the regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, or if our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, our stock price could decline. The existence of any significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could, and the existence of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting would, preclude management from concluding that our internal control over financial reporting in the relevant time period is effective. If management or our independent auditors determine in the future that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, our stock price could decline and we could be subject to investigations or sanctions by regulatory authorities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may be limited by, among other things, differences between generally accepted accounting principles in China and generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP, and difficulties in implementing proper segregation of duties due to the lack of available qualified accounting personnel in the China marketplace. If in the future we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting or if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. 22 We may not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce and expect. We set goals for timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to our success, such as the receipt of regulatory approval for our acquisitions, commencement and completion of clinical trials, anticipated regulatory submission and approval dates and timing of product launches. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors beyond our control, such as delays or failures in our clinical trials, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process and delays in achieving manufacturing or marketing arrangements sufficient to commercialize our products. There can be no assurance that our clinical trials will be completed, that we will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned or that we will be able to adhere to our current schedule for the launch of any of our products. Any failure to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are a holding company with no operations of our own and depend on our subsidiaries for revenue. We are a holding company with no significant assets other than our equity interests in Sunstone, BMP China, Wanwei, and Rongheng. We rely on dividends, loans and other payments to us by BMP China, Wanwei, Rongheng, Sunstone China and any other future acquired entities in China. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $31.0 million. Accordingly, our ability to make payments on indebtedness we may incur and to distribute dividends to our stockholders is dependent on the earnings, and the distribution of funds from, our subsidiaries. However, BMP China and Wanwei have incurred significant operating losses since their inceptions. If these losses continue, we may not be able to pay dividends or service any debt that we may incur. In addition, if Sunstone, BMP China, Wanwei, Rongheng, or any future subsidiaries incur indebtedness of their own in the future, the instruments governing such indebtedness could restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us, which in turn would limit our ability to make payments on indebtedness we may incur and to distribute dividends to our stockholders. Risks Relating to Doing Business in China We face increased risks of doing business due to the extent of our operations in China. Our operating subsidiaries, Sunstone, BMP China, Wanwei, and Rongheng, are organized and located in China. China currently is transitioning to a market-developed socialist economy. There are significant political and economic tensions resulting from this transition that could affect the business environment in China. Our efforts to expand into China pose special risks that could adversely affect our business. Doing business in China also will subject us to the customary risks of doing business in foreign countries. These risks include, among others, the effects of: • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and controls; • competitive disadvantages to established foreign businesses with significant current market share and business and customer relationships; • nationalization; • tax and regulatory policies of local governments and the possibility of trade embargoes; • political instability, war or other hostilities; and • laws and policies of the United States and China affecting foreign trade and investment. Any of these risks could cause significant interruptions in our distribution and other operations, which would adversely affect our ability to conduct business in China and our financial condition, results of operations and business. 23 Fluctuations in the Chinese Renminbi could adversely affect our results of operations. Substantially all of our revenues, profits, cash flows and assets have been, and we expect will continue to be, derived in China and be denominated in Chinese currency, or RMB. The value of the RMB, which is controlled and adjusted periodically by the Chinese government, fluctuates and is subject to changes in the political and economic conditions in China. On December 31, 2008, the exchange rate of United States dollar to RMB was approximately 1 to 6.8542. Any devaluation of the RMB could adversely affect the value of our common stock in foreign currency terms because we will receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Fluctuations in exchange rates also could adversely affect the value, translated or converted into United States dollars, of our net assets, earnings and any declared dividends. In addition, a devaluation of the RMB is likely to increase the portion of our cash flow required to satisfy any foreign currency denominated obligations. Government control of currency conversion could adversely affect our operations and financial results. Substantially all of our revenues are in RMB, which currently is not a freely convertible currency. Any restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside of China or to make dividend payments in United States dollars. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, the RMB is freely convertible for trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not for direct investment, loan or investment in securities outside of China without the prior approval of China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange. Foreign exchange transactions under our capital account, including foreign currency-denominated borrowings from Chinese or foreign banks and principal payments with respect to foreign currency-denominated obligations, continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. These limitations could affect our ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, or to obtain foreign exchange for capital expenditures. In the future, the Chinese government may take measures at its discretion to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions if foreign currencies become scarce in China. We may be unable to pay dividends in United States dollars or other foreign currencies to our stockholders if the Chinese government restricts access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. The ability of our Chinese operating subsidiaries to pay dividends may be restricted due to our corporate structure. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and substantially all of our revenues are generated in China. As wholly foreign-owned enterprises, Sunstone, BMP China, Wanwei and Rongheng are required to establish reserve funds, each of which is appropriated from net profit after taxation but before dividend distributions in accordance with Chinese law. All of our entities are required to allocate at least 10% of their net profits to the reserve fund until the balance of this fund has reached 50% of their registered capital. In addition, the profit available for distribution from our Chinese subsidiaries is determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in China. This calculation may differ from the one performed under GAAP. As a result, we may not receive sufficient distributions from our Chinese subsidiaries to enable us to make dividend distributions to our stockholders in the future and limitations on distributions of the profits of Sunstone, BMP China, and Wanwei could negatively affect our financial condition and assets, even if our GAAP financial statements indicate that our operations have been profitable. We may be restricted in our ability to transfer funds to our Chinese operating subsidiaries, which may restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions. Any transfer by us of funds to our Chinese subsidiaries through a stockholder loan and the ability for our Chinese subsidiaries to obtain an RMB loan secured by us or other foreign institutions are subject to registration with China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange. If the sum of the aggregated medium-term and long-term external debts, the outstanding short-term external debts and RMB loans secured by foreign institution(s) of a Chinese subsidiary is less than the difference between its total investment amount and its registered capital, the Chinese subsidiary is required to apply to the appropriate examination and approval authority to increase its total investment amount. Accordingly, any transfer of funds from us, directly or indirectly, to any of our Chinese subsidiaries by means of increasing its registered capital is subject to approval by the appropriate examination and 24 approval authorities in China. This limitation on the free flow of funds between us and our Chinese subsidiaries may restrict our ability to react to changing market conditions. China’s economic, political and social conditions, and its government policies, could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject, to a significant degree, to economic, political and legal developments in China. The economy of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • level of government involvement; • economic structure; • allocation of resources; • level of development; • inflation rates; • growth rate; and • control of foreign exchange. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industrial development. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. A slowdown of the Chinese economy could adversely affect our growth and profitability. Our financial results have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by conditions in the Chinese economy and pharmaceutical industry. Although the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past decade, it is unclear whether the slowdown in the Chinese economy during the second half of 2008 will continue and what impact it will have on our financial results. There can be no assurance that the current slowdown will not have a negative impact on our business. The legal system in China has inherent uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to us. We currently conduct our business primarily through our wholly owned operating subsidiaries, Sunstone, BMP China, Wanwei, and Rongheng, and expect in the future to conduct our business through Sunstone, BMP China, Wanwei and Rongheng and other subsidiaries organized in China that we acquire, which are and will be organized in China. These subsidiaries generally are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. In addition, we depend on several affiliated entities in China to honor their service agreements with us. Chinese law governs almost all of these agreements, and disputes arising out of these agreements are expected to be decided by arbitration in China. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, Chinese legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the Chinese legal system continues to evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not 25 always uniform, and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties that may limit remedies available to us. Any litigation in China may be protracted and may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, China may enact new laws or amend current laws that may be detrimental to us, which may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations and agreements with third parties and we make sales in China, which is known to experience corruption. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our company or the companies in which we invest that could be in violation of various laws including the FCPA, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our company or the companies in which we invest may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the government may seek to hold us liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. We have limited business insurance coverage in China. The insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance options. As a result, we have not maintained, and currently do not maintain, any liability, hazard or other insurance covering our services, business, operations, errors, acts or omissions, personnel or properties. To the extent that we are unable to recover from others for any uninsured losses, such losses could result in a loss of capital and significant harm to our business. If any action, suit and/or proceeding is brought against us and we are unable to pay a judgment rendered against us and/or defend ourselves against such action, suit and/or proceeding, our business, financial condition and operations could be negatively affected. We may be deemed as a PRC resident enterprise under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and be subject to the PRC taxation on our worldwide income. Under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the new PRC EIT Law, that took effect on January 1, 2008, enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in the PRC are considered “resident enterprises” and will generally be subject to the enterprise income tax at a uniform rate of 25% on their worldwide income, unless they qualify under certain limited exceptions. The implementation rules define the “de facto management body” as an establishment that has substantial management and control over the business, 26 personnel, accounts and properties of an enterprise. If the PRC tax authorities subsequently determine that we or any of our non-PRC subsidiaries should be classified as a resident enterprise, then our worldwide income may be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25%, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future. Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our shares may become subject to withholding taxes under the PRC tax laws. Under the new PRC EIT Law and its implementation regulations issued by the PRC State Council, a 10% withholding tax will be imposed on dividends, interest, royalties and capital gains payable to recipients who are not tax resident of the PRC (in certain cases, the withholding tax rate on outgoing interest has been reduced to 7%, royalties to 6% and dividends to 5%). It remains unclear how the PRC tax authority will determine the sources of such income in the case of transfer of shares of an offshore company which holds shares/equity interests in a PRC operating company. The PRC tax authorities may invoke the general anti-tax avoidance provisions under the EIT Law to disregard the form and look to the substance of the transactions to determine if the dividends, capital gains and other passive income of tax non-PRC residents are subject to PRC withholding tax. Therefore, it is unclear whether the dividends we pay with respect to our ordinary shares or the gain a shareholder realizes from the transfer of our ordinary shares, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to withholding tax under the PRC EIT Law. It is also unclear regarding the method of payment of such tax under the PRC EIT Law. If we are required to deduct PRC withholding tax on our dividends payable to our foreign stockholders, or if PRC withholding tax is payable on the gains realized from the transfer of our ordinary shares, the value of an investment in our shares may be materially and adversely affected. Failure by our stockholders or beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents to comply with certain PRC foreign exchange regulations could restrict our ability to distribute profits, restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activities or subject us to liabilities under PRC laws, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In October 2005, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, issued Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for PRC Residents Engaging in Financing and Roundtrip Investments via Overseas Special Purpose Vehicles, or SAFE Circular 75. SAFE Circular 75 states that since October 2005, PRC citizens or residents must register, prior to establishing or controlling an offshore entity, with the SAFE or its local branch in connection with their establishment or control of the offshore entity established or controlled for the purpose of overseas equity financing involving an investment whereby the offshore entity acquires or controls onshore assets or equity interests from the PRC citizens or residents. In addition, such PRC citizens or residents must update their SAFE registrations when the offshore SPV undergoes material events relating to increases or decreases in investment amount, transfers or exchanges of shares, mergers or divisions, long-term equity or debt investments or external guarantees, or other material events that do not involve return investments. To further clarify the implementation of SAFE Circular 75, on May 29, 2007, the SAFE issued SAFE Circular 106. Under SAFE Circular 106, PRC subsidiaries of an offshore company governed by SAFE Circular 75 are required to coordinate and supervise the filing of SAFE registrations in a timely manner by the offshore holding company’s stockholders who are PRC citizens or residents. If these stockholders fail to comply, the PRC subsidiaries are required to report to the local SAFE authorities. Therefore, if any of our stockholders who are PRC citizens or residents do not complete their registration with the SAFE or its local branch, our PRC subsidiaries may be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to us, and we may be restricted in our ability to contribute additional capital to our PRC subsidiaries. Further, since we are a public company in the United States and our stockholders often hold their shares in street name, we may not be fully aware or informed of the identities of all our beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents, and we may not always be able to compel our beneficial owners to comply with the SAFE Circular 75 requirements. As a result, we cannot assure you that all of our stockholders or beneficial owners who are PRC 27 citizens or residents will at all times comply with, or in the future make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by SAFE Circular 75. Failure to register by these stockholders could subject us and our subsidiaries to, among other things, potential fines or legal sanctions. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by the SAFE or other PRC government authorities if we or our PRC employees fail to comply with recent PRC regulations relating to employee stock options granted by offshore listed companies to PRC citizens. On March 28, 2007, the SAFE issued Application Procedures of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens who have been granted stock options by an offshore listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of the offshore listed company, to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures. Although we are planning to make the registration, there is no assurance that such registration will be successful. Our failure to register could subject us and our employees to potential fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or crossborder investment activities, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions dividends, or affect our ownership structure, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Pharmaceutical Distribution in China The absence of express laws and regulations in China regarding foreign investment in China’s pharmaceutical distribution sector may cause uncertainty. Pursuant to China’s Administrative Measures on the Foreign Investment in Commercial Sector, as of December 11, 2004, foreign enterprises are permitted to establish or invest in wholly foreign-owned enterprises or joint ventures that engage in wholesale or retail sales of pharmaceuticals in China subject to the implementation of relevant regulations. However, no specific regulation in this regard has been promulgated to date. If specific regulations are not promulgated, or if any promulgated regulations contain clauses that will cause an adverse impact to our current and future acquisitions in China, our operations and business strategy will be adversely affected. 28 Anti-corruption measures taken by the Chinese government to correct improper sales practices in the pharmaceutical industry could adversely affect our revenue and reputation. The Chinese government has recently taken anti-corruption measures to correct corrupt practices. In the pharmaceutical industry, such practices include, among others, acceptance of kickbacks, bribery or other illegal gains or benefits by the hospitals and medical practitioners from pharmaceutical manufacturers in connection with the prescription of a certain drug. While we maintain strict anti-corruption policies, these policies may not be effective. We are aware of past violations of these anti-corruption measures by employees of companies we have acquired or are in the process of acquiring. If the Chinese government takes enforcement action against us as a result of improper sales practices, our inventory may be seized and our practices may be investigated. If this occurs, our sales and reputation may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, Chinese government-sponsored anti-corruption campaigns from time to time could have a chilling effect on our efforts to reach new hospital customers. Our sales representatives primarily rely on hospital visits to better educate physicians on our products and promote our brand awareness. Recently, there have been occasions on which our sales representatives were denied access to hospitals in order to avoid the perception of corruption. If this attitude becomes widespread among our potential customers, our ability to promote our products will be adversely affected. “ Price control regulations may decrease our profitability. The prices of certain medicines we distribute, including those listed in the Chinese government’s catalogue of medications that are reimbursable under the Insurance Catalogue, which is the official Chinese catalogue that lists drugs for which reimbursement is available, are subject to control by the relevant state or provincial price administration authorities. In practice, price control with respect to these medicines sets a ceiling on their retail price. The actual price of such medicines set by manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers cannot historically exceed the price ceiling imposed by applicable government price control regulations. Although, as a general matter, government price control regulations have resulted in drug prices tending to decline over time, there has been no predictable pattern for such decreases. Such price controls, especially downward price adjustment, may negatively affect Sunstone’s revenue and profitability. The bidding process with respect to the purchase of pharmaceutical products may lead to reduced revenue. Chinese regulations require non-profit medical organizations established in China to implement bidding procedures for the purchase of drugs. It is intended that the implementation of a bidding purchase system will be extended gradually and will cover, among other drugs, those drugs consumed in large volume and commonly used for clinical uses. Pharmaceutical wholesalers must have the due authorization of the pharmaceutical manufacturers in order to participate in the bidding process. If, for the purpose of reducing the bidding price, pharmaceutical manufacturers participate in the bidding process on their own and enter into purchase and sales contracts with medical organizations directly without authorizing a pharmaceutical distributor, the revenue of Wanwei and Rongheng may be adversely affected. 29 If the medicines Wanwei distributes and Sunstone manufactures are replaced by other medicines or are removed from China’s Insurance Catalogue in the future, our revenue may suffer. Under Chinese regulations, patients purchasing medicines listed by China’s state and/or provincial governments in the Insurance Catalogue may be reimbursed, in part or in whole, by a social medicine fund. Accordingly, pharmaceutical distributors prefer to engage in the distribution of medicines listed in the Insurance Catalogue. Currently, the main products that Sunstone, Wanwei and Rongheng distribute are listed in the Insurance Catalogue. The content of the Insurance Catalogue is subject to change by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security of China, and new medicines may be added to the Insurance Catalogue by provincial level authorities as part of their limited ability to change certain medicines listed in the Insurance Catalogue. If our products are replaced by other medicines or removed from the Insurance Catalogue in the future, our revenue may suffer. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock There may not be a viable public market for our common stock. Our common stock has only been traded on The NASDAQ Global Market since June 7, 2007 and prior to that, from August 10, 2006 to June 6, 2007, our common stock was traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market, and an active trading market may not develop or be sustained. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock, and we currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to support operations and finance the growth and development of our business and do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Therefore, investors will have to rely on appreciation in our stock price and a liquid trading market in order to achieve a gain on their investment. The market prices for securities of pharmaceutical distribution companies have historically been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. From August 2006 through March 13, 2009, the trading prices for our common stock ranged from a high of $13.40 to a low of $2.25. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could depress the market price of our common stock. Since June 7, 2007, our common stock has been traded on The NASDAQ Global Market. From August 10, 2006 to June 6, 2007, our common stock was traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, including common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants and options, or the market perceives that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could fall and we may be unable to sell our common stock in the future. We had 41,364,534 shares of common stock outstanding as of March 12, 2009. 6,178,700 of these outstanding shares are held by Artis Capital Management, LP who may be deemed to be our “affiliate” as that term is defined under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and would be subject to Rule 144. Our common stock may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, which could lead to costly litigation for us and make an investment in us less appealing. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: • announcements concerning our competitors or the pharmaceutical distribution industry in general; • rate of sales and customer acceptance; 30 • changing factors related to doing business in China; • interruption of supply or changes in our agreements with manufacturers or distributors; • new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines and timing of regulatory approvals; • general and industry-specific economic conditions; • additions to or departures of our key personnel; • variations in our quarterly financial and operating results; • changes in market valuations of other companies that operate in our business segments or in our industry; • lack of adequate trading liquidity; • announcements about our business partners; • changes in accounting principles; and • general market conditions. The market prices of the securities of early-stage companies, particularly companies like ours without consistent product revenues and earnings, could be highly volatile. In the past, companies that experience volatility in the market price of their securities have often faced securities class action litigation. Whether or not meritorious, litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs, divert our management’s attention and resources and harm our financial condition and results of operations. 31 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 