Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below could have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business We may be unable to attract and retain members, which could have a negative effect on our business. The performance of our clubs is dependent on our ability to attract and retain members and we may not be successful in these efforts. Many of our members can cancel their club membership at any time under certain circumstances. In addition, there are numerous factors that have in the past and could in the future lead to a decline in membership levels at established clubs or that could prevent us from increasing our membership at newer clubs, including harm to our reputation, a decline in our ability to deliver quality service at a competitive cost, the presence of direct and indirect competition in the areas in which the clubs are located, the public’s interest in sports and fitness clubs and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, membership levels might not be adequate to maintain or permit the expansion of our operations. In addition, a decline in membership levels may have a material adverse effect on our performance, financial condition and results of operations. Our geographic concentration heightens our exposure to adverse regional developments. As of December 31, 2006, we operated 99 fitness clubs in the New York metropolitan market, 21 fitness clubs in the Boston market, 19 fitness clubs in the Washington, D.C. market, seven fitness clubs in the Philadelphia market and three fitness clubs in Switzerland. Our geographic concentration in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions and, in particular, the New York area, heightens our exposure to adverse developments related to competition, as well as, economic and demographic changes in these regions. Our geographic concentration might result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in the future. The level of competition in the fitness club industry could negatively impact our revenue growth rates and profits. The fitness club industry is competitive and continues to become more competitive. We compete with other fitness clubs, physical fitness and recreational facilities established by local governments, hospitals and businesses for their employees, amenity and condominium clubs, the YMCA and similar organizations and, to a certain extent, with racquet and tennis and other athletic clubs, country clubs, weight reducing salons and the home-use fitness equipment industry. We also compete with other entertainment and retail businesses for the discretionary income in our target demographics. We might not be able to compete effectively in the future in the markets in which we operate. Competitors may include companies that are larger and have greater resources than us, and they may enter these markets to our detriment. These competitive conditions may limit our ability to increase dues without a material loss in membership, attract new members and attract and retain qualified personnel. Additionally, consolidation in the fitness club industry could result in increased competition among participants, particularly large multi-facility operators that are able to compete for attractive acquisition candidates or newly constructed club locations, thereby increasing costs associated with expansion through both acquisitions and lease negotiation and real estate availability for newly constructed club locations. Competitors offering lower pricing and a lower level of service could compete effectively against our facilities if such operators are willing to accept operating margins that are lower than ours. Furthermore, smaller and less expensive weight loss facilities present a competitive alternative for the de-conditioned market. We also face competition from competitors offering comparable or higher pricing with higher levels of service. The trend to larger outer-suburban, multi-recreational family fitness centers, in areas where suitable real estate is more likely to be available, could also compete effectively against our suburban, fitness-only models. In addition, large competitors could enter the urban markets in which we operate to attempt to open a chain of clubs in these markets through one, or a series of, acquisitions. 15 Table of Contents If we are unable to identify and acquire suitable sites for new clubs, our revenue growth rate and profits may be negatively impacted. To successfully expand our business, we must identify and acquire sites that meet the site selection criteria we have established. In addition to finding sites with the right geographical, demographic and other measures we employ in our selection process, we also need to evaluate the penetration of our competitors in the market. We face competition from other health and fitness center operators for sites that meet our criteria, and as a result, we may lose those sites, our competitors could copy our format or we could be forced to pay higher prices for those sites. If we are unable to identify and acquire sites for new clubs, our revenue growth rate and profits may be negatively impacted. Additionally, if our analysis of the suitability of a site is incorrect, we may not be able to recover our capital investment in developing and building the new club. We may experience prolonged periods of losses in our recently opened clubs. We have opened a total of 15 new club locations that we have constructed in the 24-month period ended December 31, 2006. Upon opening a club, we typically experience an initial period of club operating losses. Enrollment from pre-sold memberships typically generates insufficient revenue for the club to generate positive cash flow. As a result, a new club typically generates an operating loss in its first full year of operations and substantially lower margins in its second full year of operations than a mature club. These operating losses and lower margins will negatively impact our future results of operations. This negative impact will be increased by the initial expensing of pre-opening costs, which include legal and other costs associated with lease negotiations and permitting and zoning requirements, as well as increased depreciation and amortization expenses, which will further negatively impact net income. We may, at our discretion, accelerate or expand our plans to open new clubs, which may temporarily adversely affect results from operations. We could be subject to claims related to health or safety risks at our clubs. Use of our clubs poses some potential health or safety risks to members or guests through exertion and use of our services and facilities, including exercise equipment. Claims against us for injury suffered by, or death of members or guests while exercising at a club might be asserted. We might not be able to successfully defend such claims. Additionally, we might not be able to maintain our general liability insurance on acceptable terms in the future or maintain a level of insurance that would provide adequate coverage against potential claims. Depending upon the outcome, these matters may have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Loss of key personnel and/or failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could make it more difficult for us to generate cash flow from operations and service our debt. We are dependent on the continued services of our senior management team, particularly Robert J. Giardina, Chief Executive Officer; Alexander A. Alimanestianu, President and Chief Development Officer; Richard G. Pyle, Chief Financial Officer; Randall C. Stephen, Chief Operating Officer, and Jennifer Prue, Chief Information Officer. We believe the loss of such key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us and our financial performance. Currently, we do not have any long-term employment agreements with our executive officers, and we may not be able to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel to meet our business needs. We are subject to extensive government regulation and changes in these regulations could have a negative effect on our financial condition. Our operations and business practices are subject to Federal, state and local government regulation in the various jurisdictions in which our clubs are located, including: (1) general rules and regulations of the Federal Trade Commission, state and local consumer protection agencies and state statutes that prescribe certain forms and provisions of membership contracts and that govern the advertising, sale, financing and collection of such memberships and (2) state and local health regulations. 16 Table of Contents Statutes and regulations affecting the fitness industry have been enacted in jurisdictions in which we conduct business; many others into which we may expand have adopted or likely will adopt similar legislation. Typically, these statutes and regulations prescribe certain forms and provisions of membership contracts, afford members the right to cancel the contract within a specified time period after signing, require an escrow of funds received from pre-opening sales or the posting of a bond or proof of financial responsibility, and may establish maximum prices for membership contracts and limitations on the term of contracts. In addition, we are subject to numerous other types of federal and state regulations governing the sale of memberships. These laws and regulations are subject to varying interpretations by a number of state and federal enforcement agencies and courts. We maintain internal review procedures in order to comply with these requirements, and believe that our activities are in substantial compliance with all applicable statutes, rules and decisions. Under so-called state “cooling-off” statutes, a new member has the right to cancel his or her membership for a short period after joining set by the applicable law in the relevant jurisdiction and, in such event, is entitled to a refund of any initiation fee and dues paid. In addition, our membership contracts provide that a member may cancel his or her membership at any time for medical reasons or relocation a certain distance from the nearest club. The specific procedures and reasons for cancellation vary due to differing laws in the respective jurisdictions. In each instance, the canceling member is entitled to a refund of unused prepaid amounts only. Furthermore, where permitted by law, a fee is due upon cancellation and we may offset such amount against any refunds owed. Changes in any statutes, rules or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Terrorism and the uncertainty of armed conflicts may have a material adverse effect on clubs and our operating results. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other acts of violence or war may affect the markets in which we operate, our operating results or the market on which our common stock trades. Our geographic concentration in the major cities in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions and, in particular, the New York and Washington, D.C. areas, heightens our exposure to any such future terrorist attacks, which may adversely affect our clubs and result in a decrease in our revenues. The potential near-term and long-term effect these attacks may have for our members, the markets for our services and the market for our common stock are uncertain; however, their occurrence can be expected to further negatively affect the United States economy generally, and specifically the regional markets in which we operate. The consequences of any terrorist attacks or any armed conflicts are unpredictable; and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business. Disruptions and failures involving our information systems could cause customer dissatisfaction and adversely affect our billing and other administrative functions. The continuing and uninterrupted performance of our information systems is critical to our success. Our members may become dissatisfied by any systems disruption or failure that interrupts our ability to provide our services to them, including programs and adequate staffing. Disruptions or failures that affect our billing and other administrative functions could have an adverse affect on our operating results. We use a fully integrated information system to sell memberships, bill our members, track and analyze sales and membership statistics, the frequency and timing of member workouts, cross-club utilization, member life, value-added services and demographic profiles by member. This system also assists us in evaluating staffing needs and program offerings. Correcting any disruptions or failures that affected our proprietary system could be difficult, time-consuming or expensive because we would need to use contracted consultants familiar with our system. We have implemented numerous infrastructure changes to accommodate our growth, provide network redundancy, better manage telecommunications and data costs, increase efficiencies in operations and improve management of all components of our technical architecture. In 2005, we brought our disaster recovery site in Pennsylvania online. The disaster recovery facility utilizes replication tools to provide fail over capabilities for supporting our club operations and company communications. Fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, acts of terrorism and similar events could damage either our primary or back-up 17 Table of Contents systems. In addition, computer viruses, electronic break-ins or other similar disruptive problems could also adversely affect our online sites. Any system disruption or failure, security breach or other damage that interrupts or delays our operations could cause us to lose members and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The opening of new clubs by us in existing locations may negatively impact our comparable club revenue increases and our operating margins. We currently operate clubs throughout the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States. We opened 11 clubs in 2006, and three clubs since December 31, 2006. In addition, we currently have 16 clubs for which we have signed lease commitments and an additional 15 for which we have signed term sheets. Each of these projected 31 openings is in an existing market. With respect to existing markets, it has been our experience that opening new clubs may attract some memberships away from other clubs already operated by us in those markets and diminish their revenues. In addition, as a result of new club openings in existing markets, and because older clubs will represent an increasing proportion of our club base over time, our mature club revenue increases may be lower in future periods than in the past. Another result of opening new clubs is that our club operating margins may be lower than they have been historically while the clubs build a membership base. We expect both the addition of pre-opening expenses and the lower revenue volumes characteristic of newly opened clubs to affect our club operating margins at these new clubs. Our continued growth could place strains on our management, employees, information systems and internal controls, which may adversely impact our business. Over the past five years, we have experienced significant growth in our business activities and operations, including an increase in the number of our clubs. Future expansion will place increased demands on our administrative, operational, financial and other resources. Any failure to manage growth effectively could seriously harm our business. To be successful, we will need to continue to improve management information systems and our operating, administrative, financial and accounting systems and controls. We will also need to train new employees and maintain close coordination among our executive, accounting, finance, marketing, sales and operations functions. These processes are time-consuming and expensive, increase management responsibilities and divert management attention. Our cash and cash equivalents are concentrated in one bank. Our cash and cash equivalents are held, primarily, in a single commercial bank. These deposits are not collateralized. In the event the bank becomes insolvent, we would be unable to recover most of our cash and cash equivalents deposited at the bank. The requirements of being a company with listed public equity may strain our resources and distract our management. As a company with listed public equity, we are subject to reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and NASDAQ Stock Market rules promulgated in response to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These requirements, such as Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. As a result, our management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. NASDAQ Stock Market rules require that a majority of our board of directors be comprised of independent directors and certain committees of our board of directors be comprised solely of independent directors. In addition, resignations or other changes in the composition of our board could make it difficult for us to continue to comply with these rules in a timely manner, which could result in the delisting of our common stock from The NASDAQ Stock Market. 18 Table of Contents Delays in new club openings could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. In order to meet our objectives, it is important that we open new clubs on schedule. A significant amount of time and capital expenditures is required to develop and construct new clubs. If we are significantly delayed in the opening of these clubs, our competitors may be able to open new clubs in the same market before we open ours. This change in the competitive landscape could negatively impact our pre-opening sales of memberships. In addition, delays in opening new clubs could hurt our ability to meet our growth objectives. Our ability to open new clubs on schedule depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • In the case of new or re-developed buildings, the delivery of our space by the landlord for tenant fit-out; • obtaining entitlements, permits and licenses necessary to complete construction of the new club on schedule and to open for operations; • recruiting, training and retaining qualified management and other personnel; • securing access to labor and materials necessary to develop and construct our clubs; • delays due to material shortages, labor issues, weather conditions or other acts of God, discovery of contaminants, accidents, deaths or injunctions; and • general economic conditions. Risks Related to Our Leverage Our leverage may impair our financial condition and we may incur significant additional debt. We currently have a substantial amount of debt. As of December 31, 2006, our total consolidated debt was $281.1 million. Our substantial debt could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions of clubs and other general corporate requirements; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of interest on our debt and reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions of new clubs and general corporate requirements; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. These limitations and consequences may place us at a competitive disadvantage to other less-leveraged competitors. Subject to specified limitations, the indenture governing our senior discount notes will permit us and our subsidiaries to incur substantial additional debt. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, we had $64.0 million of unutilized borrowings under our senior secured revolving credit facility. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. We may not have access to the cash flow and other assets of our subsidiaries that may be needed to make payments on our outstanding senior discount notes. Our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries and our ability to make payment on our outstanding Senior Discount Notes is dependent on the earnings and the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. However, none of our subsidiaries are obligated to make funds available to us for payment on our outstanding Senior Discount Notes. In addition, the terms of the New Credit Agreement governing TSI, LLC’s New Senior Credit Facility, significantly restrict TSI, LLC and its subsidiaries from paying dividends and otherwise transferring assets to us. Furthermore, our subsidiaries are permitted under the terms of the New Senior Credit Agreement and other 19 Table of Contents indebtedness (including under the Senior Discount Notes indenture) to incur additional indebtedness that may severely restrict or prohibit the making of distributions, the payment of dividends or the making of loans by such subsidiaries to us. We cannot assure you that the agreements governing the current and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries will permit our subsidiaries to provide TSI, LLC with sufficient dividends, distributions or loans to fund scheduled interest and principal payments on TSI, LLC’s New Credit Agreement when due. Covenant restrictions under our indebtedness may limit our ability to operate our business and, in such an event, we may not have sufficient assets to settle our indebtedness. The indenture governing our Senior Discount Notes and TSI, LLC’s New Credit Agreement and certain of our other agreements regarding our indebtedness contain, among other things, covenants that may restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. The indentures governing our Senior Discount Notes and TSI, LLC’s New Credit Agreement and certain of our other agreements regarding our indebtedness restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: • borrow money; • pay dividends or make distributions; • purchase or redeem stock; • make investments and extend credit; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • engage in sale-leaseback transactions; • consummate certain asset sales; • effect a consolidation or merger or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • create liens on our assets. In addition, TSI, LLC’s New Credit Agreement requires the Company, on a consolidated basis, to maintain a specified financial ratio and satisfy certain financial condition tests that may require us to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. The New Credit Agreement requires the Company, on a consolidated basis, to maintain a maximum total leverage ratio not greater than 4.25:1.00 of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA, as defined in the New Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2006, we were in compliance with such ratio, which ratio was 2.90:1.00. Events beyond our control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, may affect our ability to meet certain financial ratios and financial condition tests. We may be unable to meet those tests and the lenders may decide not to waive any failure to meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the indenture governing our senior discount notes, TSI, LLC’s New Credit Agreement. If an event of default under TSI, LLC’s New Credit Agreement occurs, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If an event of default occurs under the indenture governing our Senior Discount Notes, the noteholders could elect to declare due all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest. If any such event should occur, we might not have sufficient assets to pay our indebtedness. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 20 Table of Contents 