ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves significant risks. In addition to all of the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this prospectus, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, which constitute what we believe are the material risks associated with an investment in our common stock, before deciding to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, they may materially harm our business, our financial condition or our results of operations which in turn could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of operating losses and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We are an early stage company with a limited operating history. Since our inception, we have incurred significant operating losses. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $16.0 million. We expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating expenses and capital expenditures, including operating expenses relating to attracting and retaining a larger employee workforce. In the next 24 months, our capital requirements are likely to increase, particularly as we pursue internal growth, add personnel, fund inventory purchases and support increased levels of accounts receivables prior to receiving collections from our customers and expend additional funds to maintain our status as a reporting company under the Exchange Act. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, such as the risk factors described in this section, including our ability to maintain our existing cost structure and return on sales and to execute our business and strategic plans as currently conceived. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues to achieve profitability. Even if we achieve profitability, we may be unable to maintain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to achieve and then maintain profitability, the market value of our common stock may decline. We may be unable to acquire, or may be delayed in acquiring, Rongheng. On August 31, 2005, we entered into a non-binding letter of intent with Orient International and Shanghai CAS to purchase a majority interest in Rongheng. Under Chinese law, a proposed sale of state-owned assets, such as the proposed sale of Rongheng, must be posted on a regional property exchange, whereupon the assets are sold to the highest qualified bidder. On May 11, 2006, we entered into an agreement with Shanghai CAS and Orient International. Under the terms of the agreement, the parties agreed that, if we are the winning bidder following the posting of the proposed sale on the Shanghai Exchange, the parties will enter into definitive transactional documents regarding the proposed acquisition promptly thereafter. On December 14, 2006, the proposed sale of Rongheng was posted on the Shanghai Exchange. On January 16, 2007, we were notified that we are the winning bidder of the proposed sale. On March 15, 2007, the parties executed definitive documents and the transaction will be submitted to the Chinese government for approval. The transaction is subject to a number of conditions, including the receipt of Chinese regulatory approval and is expected to close during the second quarter of 2007. The completion of the proposed acquisition of Rongheng would likely be subject to closing conditions that would be outside of our control, such as review and approval by the relevant examination and approval authorities in China. As a result, we can provide no assurance that our proposed acquisition of Rongheng will be completed in the expected time frame or at all. In addition, our proposed acquisition of Rongheng involves industries to which foreign investment has had limited access, and clear guidance on foreign investment in the pharmaceutical distribution business does not exist. As a result, we cannot predict how the examination and approval authorities would exercise their discretion in examining this proposed acquisition. Our inability to acquire, or delays in acquiring, Rongheng also would impact adversely our ability to execute our business strategy and, consequently, the marketability and market price of our common stock. 16 Table of Contents We may be unable to complete the joint venture transaction contemplated by the Shareholders’ Agreement, the GPC JV Contract and the related agreements. In addition, we may not be able to complete the joint venture transaction contemplated by our non-binding letter of intent with Biaodian. In January 2007, we entered into the Shareholders’ Agreement with AB to form Alliance BMP Limited, of which we will own 20% interest and AB will own an 80% interest and Alliance BMP Limited executed the GPC JV Contract and related agreements with GP Limited to form reorganized GPC joint venture. Under these agreements, if the transaction is completed, Alliance BMP Limited and GPC Limited will each own 50% interest in reorganized GPC. The consummation of the joint venture transaction contemplated by these agreements is conditioned upon, among other things, approvals by the Chinese authorities and the lack of adverse regulatory actions that will materially prohibit, restrict, or delay the completion of the joint venture transaction. There can be no assurance that we will obtain approvals from the Chinese authorities, that there will be no materially adverse regulatory actions or that we will be able to complete the joint venture transaction as contemplated by the agreements. Our inability to complete the joint venture transaction may impact adversely our ability to execute our business strategy and, consequently, the marketability and market price of our common stock. In addition, with respect to our proposed joint venture transaction with Biaodian, while we and Biaodian have entered into a letter of intent, such letter of intent is non-binding. In addition, even if we and Biaodian do enter into transactional documents, the consummation of the joint venture transaction may depend on various factors, such as obtaining approvals from the Chinese government and our raising sufficient funds to pay for the equity purchase price. There is no assurance that the proposed joint venture transaction with Biaodian will be completed as contemplated by the letter of intent. We may be unsuccessful in our strategy of expanding our product portfolio, acquiring complementary businesses or integrating acquired businesses. Our business strategy includes expanding our business capabilities through both internal growth and the acquisition of complementary businesses and licensing pharmaceutical products for marketing and distribution in China. We may be unable to find additional complementary businesses to acquire or we may be unable to enter into additional agreements to market and distribute pharmaceutical products. Future acquisitions or joint ventures, including our potential transactions with Rongheng and AB, may result in substantial per share financial dilution of our common stock from the issuance of equity securities. Completion of future acquisitions also would expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with: • the assimilation of new operations, technologies and personnel; • unforeseen or hidden liabilities; • the diversion of resources from our existing businesses; • the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions; and • the potential loss of, or harm to relationships with, employees, customers and suppliers as a result of the integration of new businesses. We may continue to experience delays in product introduction and marketing or interruptions in supply. We have experienced, and are continuing to experience, longer than expected periods of product introduction and delays in marketing certain products in our product portfolio. For example, supply interruptions from the manufacturer of Fem 7 had a significant negative impact on our revenues from sales of Fem 7 during 2004 through March 2005. These interruptions were caused by a delay in production relating to China-specific product packaging. In April 2005, the distributor of Fem 7 received supplies of Fem 7 from the manufacturer and we have begun to provide them to our customers. Our revenues are dependent on the ability of the manufacturers and distributors with which we associate to supply and distribute product to our customers. If these and other delays continue to occur, or if these manufacturers and distributors are unable to supply and distribute product to our customers in a timely manner, our operating results and financial condition will suffer. In addition, our contracts with pharmaceutical owners and manufacturers relating to some of the products in our product portfolio have a limited duration and have minimum sales requirements that, if not met, could lead to termination or non-renewal of the contract, or the ability of the manufacturer to render the contract non-exclusive, which could harm our revenues. 17 Table of Contents We may be unable to compete successfully against new and existing competitors. We operate in a highly competitive market with few barriers to entry. We expect that competition will continue to intensify. As we expand our operations in the pharmaceutical distribution business, we will encounter competition from other companies in the distribution business, and we may face future competition from new foreign and domestic competitors entering the pharmaceutical promotion and distribution market in China. Some of our competitors are more established than we are, and have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources than we do. Many of our competitors, including China National Pharmaceutical Group Corporation, Shanghai Pharmaceutical Group Company Ltd., Guangzhou Pharmaceutical Company Ltd., Shanghai Leiyunshang Company Ltd. and Anhui Huayuan Pharmaceutical Company Ltd., have greater name recognition and a larger customer base than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities and customer requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional and distribution activities, offer more attractive terms to customers, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Competition could reduce our market share or force us to lower our prices to unprofitable levels. If we fail to increase our brand recognition, we may face difficulty in obtaining new customers and business partners. We believe that establishing, maintaining and enhancing our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our current and future services and is an important element in our effort to increase our customer base and obtain new business partners. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market develops. Some of our potential competitors already have well-established brands in the pharmaceutical promotion and distribution industry. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on our ability to maintain a sizeable and active customer base, our marketing efforts and our ability to provide reliable and useful services at competitive prices. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract enough new customers or retain our existing customers to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, in which case our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of factors beyond our control. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • the costs of pharmaceutical products and development; • the relative speed and success with which we can obtain and maintain customers, merchants and vendors for our services and manufacturers and suppliers of products to market to our customers; • capital expenditures for equipment; • marketing and promotional activities and other costs; • changes in our pricing policies, suppliers and competitors; • the ability of our suppliers to provide products in a timely manner to our customers; • changes in operating expenses; • increased competition in our markets; and • other general economic and seasonal factors. We may be unable to obtain additional capital when necessary and on terms that are acceptable to us. We anticipate that our December 31, 2006 cash and cash equivalents in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our current level of operations for at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our ability to maintain our existing cost structure and return on sales and execute our business and strategic plans as currently conceived. We expect that we will need significant additional cash resources to operate and expand our business in the future and we may attempt to raise additional funds through public or private equity financing or from other sources. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional indebtedness would result in additional debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. In addition, financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are not able to raise additional capital through fund raising activities we could be forced to curtail some of 18 Table of Contents the currently anticipated expenditures in the above mentioned areas. Should we be forced to do this it could have an impact on our anticipated future growth. We may be unsuccessful in attracting or retaining key sales, marketing and other personnel. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managers and sales and marketing personnel. BMP China’s and Wanwei’s sales personnel carry out critical promotional and sales activities of BMP China and Wanwei. There is intense competition for qualified sales and marketing personnel, and we may be unable to attract, assimilate or retain additional qualified sales and marketing personnel on a timely basis. Our inability to retain key personnel or the failure to attract additional qualified personnel could harm our development and results of operations. In addition, as we plan to expand in China, we will need to attract additional qualified managerial staff and other personnel. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified personnel to work in China. This may impede the development of our distribution business and the expansion of our business in China. We may be unable to manage our growth effectively. Our business strategy is based on the assumption that we will acquire additional distribution channels in the future and that the number of our customers and the extent of our operations will grow. Our ability to compete effectively and to manage our future growth, if any, requires us to: • continue to improve our financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures to support the proposed expansion of our business operations as a result of our acquisition of Wanwei and the acquisition of any additional distribution channels in the future; and • locate or hire, at reasonable compensation rates, qualified personnel and other employees necessary to expand our capacity in order to accommodate the proposed expansion of our business operations. If we are unable to accomplish any of these objectives, we will be unsuccessful in effectively managing our growth, which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. We only offer products and services related to pharmaceuticals and, if demand for these products and services decreases, or if competition increases, we will have no other ways to generate revenue. Our future results depend on continued market acceptance of pharmaceutical products and services in China and our ability to continue to adapt to the changing needs of our customers. Any reduction in demand or increase in competition in the market for pharmaceutical products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business strategy to use our marketing arm to create demand for products that we will offer exclusively through a distribution arm may fail. Our business strategy depends in large part on our ability to establish exclusive distribution and marketing relationships with pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers and to leverage our marketing arm to create demand for products that we will distribute exclusively through a distribution arm. A number of factors could hinder the success of this strategy, including, among other things, our failure to: • obtain a sufficient number of effective distribution channels, whether through internal growth or strategic acquisition; • create sufficient demand for products that we will distribute exclusively; and • enter into and maintain exclusive distribution and marketing relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers on profitable terms. If we are unable to implement this strategy effectively, our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. Because we only recently became subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, we have limited experience in complying with public company obligations. Attempting to comply with these requirements will increase our costs and require additional management resources and we still may fail to comply. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. In addition, the public accounting firm auditing the company’s financial 19 Table of Contents statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting and must separately report on the effectiveness of our control over financial reporting. Under the current SEC regulations, as an non-accelerated filer, we expect that management will be required to issue a report on managements assessment on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting effective for the year ended December 31, 2007. Additionally, the Company will begin to require an independent auditor attestation report on management’s assessment on internal controls over financial reporting effective for the year ending December 31, 2008. Our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may be limited by, among other things, differences between generally accepted accounting principles in China and generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and difficulties in implementing proper segregation of duties due to the lack of available qualified accounting personnel in the China marketplace. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting or if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 when management assessment is required or as of December 31, 2008 when our independent auditor attestation is required, and future year ends as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. We are a small company with limited resources. While we plan to expand our staff to respond to Exchange Act reporting requirements, we may encounter substantial difficulty attracting qualified staff with requisite experience due to the high level of competition for experienced financial professionals. Furthermore, we will have to improve internal controls as they relate to the matters described in the next risk factor. Given the status of our efforts, coupled with the fact that guidance from regulatory authorities in the area of internal controls continues to evolve and that our operations are primarily in China, where the regulatory environment is different from that of the United States, we may be unable to comply with applicable deadlines. If we are unable to satisfy the regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, or if our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, our stock price could decline. The existence of any significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could, and the existence of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting would, preclude management from concluding that our internal control over financial reporting in the relevant time period is effective. If management or our independent auditors ultimately determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective in future periods, our stock price could decline and we could be subject to investigations or sanctions by regulatory authorities, which could have a negative impact on our business. We are a holding company with no operations of our own and depend on our subsidiaries for revenue. We are a holding company with no significant assets other than our equity interests in BMP China and Wanwei. We rely on dividends, loans and other payments to us by BMP China, Wanwei and any other future acquired entities in China. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $16.0 million. Accordingly, our ability to make payments on indebtedness we may incur and to distribute dividends to our stockholders is dependent on the earnings, and the distribution of funds from, our subsidiaries. However, BMP China and Wanwei have incurred significant operating losses since their inceptions. If these losses continue, we will not be able to pay dividends or service any debt that we may incur. In addition, if BMP China, Wanwei or any future subsidiaries incur indebtedness of their own in the future, the instruments governing such indebtedness could restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us, which in turn would limit our ability to make payments on indebtedness we may incur and to distribute dividends to our stockholders. In addition, our corporate structure may restrict the distribution of dividends to our stockholders since Chinese regulations permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. According to these standards and regulations, BMP China and Wanwei are, and any future subsidiaries will be, required to set aside a portion of their after-tax profits to maintain certain reserve funds that may not be distributed as cash dividends. Risks Relating to Doing Business in China We face increased risks of doing business due to the extent of our operations in China. 20 Table of Contents Our operating subsidiaries, BMP China and Wanwei, are organized and located in China. China currently is transitioning to a market-developed socialist economy. There are significant political and economic tensions resulting from this transition that could affect the business environment in China. Our efforts to expand into China pose special risks that could adversely affect our business. Doing business in China also will subject us to the customary risks of doing business in foreign countries. These risks include, among others, the effects of: • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and controls; • competitive disadvantages to established foreign businesses with significant current market share and business and customer relationships; • nationalization; • tax and regulatory policies of local governments and the possibility of trade embargoes; • political instability, war or other hostilities; and • laws and policies of the United States and China affecting foreign trade and investment. Any of these risks could cause significant interruptions in our distribution and other operations, which would adversely affect our ability to conduct business in China and our financial condition, results of operations and business. Fluctuations in the Chinese Renminbi could adversely affect our results of operations. Substantially all of our revenues, profits, cash flows and assets have been, and we expect will continue to be, derived in China and be denominated in Chinese currency, or RMB. The value of the RMB, which is controlled and adjusted periodically by the Chinese government, fluctuates and is subject to changes in the political and economic conditions in China. On July 21, 2005, China increased the value of the RMB by 2.1% to RMB 8.11 to the dollar and announced that the RMB would no longer be pegged to the United States dollar, but would be allowed to float in a band (and, to a limited extent, increase in value) against a basket of foreign currencies. On December 31, 2006, the exchange rate of United States dollar to RMB is approximately 1 to 7.80. Any devaluation of the RMB could adversely affect the value of our common stock in foreign currency terms because we will receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Fluctuations in exchange rates also could adversely affect the value, translated or converted into United States dollars, of our net assets, earnings and any declared dividends. In addition, a devaluation of the RMB is likely to increase the portion of our cash flow required to satisfy any foreign currency denominated obligations. Government control of currency conversion could adversely affect our operations and financial results. Substantially all of our revenues are in RMB, which currently is not a freely convertible currency. Any restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside of China or to make dividend payments in United States dollars. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, the RMB is freely convertible for trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not for direct investment, loan or investment in securities outside of China without the prior approval of China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange. Foreign exchange transactions under our capital account, including foreign currency-denominated borrowings from Chinese or foreign banks and principal payments with respect to foreign currency-denominated obligations, continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. These limitations could affect our ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, or to obtain foreign exchange for capital expenditures. In the future, the Chinese government may take measures at its discretion to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions if foreign currencies become scarce in China. We may be unable to pay dividends in United States dollars or other foreign currencies to our stockholders if the Chinese government restricts access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. The ability of our Chinese operating subsidiaries to pay dividends may be restricted due to our corporate structure. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and substantially all of our revenues are generated in China. As wholly foreign-owned enterprises, BMP China and Wanwei are required to establish reserve funds and staff and workers’ bonus and welfare funds, each of which is appropriated from net profit after taxation but before dividend distributions in 21 Table of Contents accordance with Chinese law. BMP China is required to allocate at least 10% of their net profits to the reserve fund until the balance of this fund has reached 50% of BMP China’s or Wanwei’s registered capital, which, as of December 31, 2006, was approximately $2.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively. In addition, the profit available for distribution from our Chinese subsidiaries is determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in China. This calculation may differ from the one performed under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. As a result, we may not receive sufficient distributions from our Chinese subsidiaries to enable us to make dividend distributions to our stockholders in the future and limitations on distributions of the profits of BMP China and Wanwei could negatively affect our financial condition and assets, even if our GAAP financial statements indicate that our operations have been profitable. We may be restricted in our ability to transfer funds to our Chinese operating subsidiaries, which may restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions. Any transfer by us of funds to our Chinese subsidiaries through a stockholder loan and the capacity for our Chinese subsidiaries to obtain an RMB loan secured by us or other foreign institutions are subject to registration with China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange. If the sum of the aggregated medium-term and long-term external debts, the outstanding short-term external debts and RMB loans secured by foreign institution(s) of a Chinese subsidiary is less than the difference between its total investment amount and its registered capital, the Chinese subsidiary is required to apply to the appropriate examination and approval authority to increase its total investment amount. Accordingly, any transfer of funds from us, directly or indirectly, to any of our Chinese subsidiaries by means of increasing its registered capital is subject to approval by the appropriate examination and approval authorities in China. This limitation on the free flow of funds between us and our Chinese subsidiaries may restrict our ability to react to changing market conditions. China’s economic, political and social conditions, and its government policies, could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject, to a significant degree, to economic, political and legal developments in China. The economy of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • level of government involvement; • economic structure; • allocation of resources; • level of development; • inflation rates; • growth rate; and • control of foreign exchange. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industrial development. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. A slow-down of the Chinese economy could adversely affect our growth and profitability. Our financial results have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by conditions in the Chinese economy and pharmaceutical industry. Although the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past decade, there can be no assurance that this growth will continue or that any slow-down will not have a negative impact on our business. The legal system in China has inherent uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to us. 22 Table of Contents We currently conduct our business primarily through our wholly-owned operating subsidiaries, BMP China and Wanwei, and expect in the future to conduct our business through BMP China, Wanwei and other subsidiaries organized in China that we acquire, which are and will be organized in China. These subsidiaries generally are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. In addition, we depend on several affiliated entities in China to honor their service agreements with us. Chinese law governs almost all of these agreements, and disputes arising out of these agreements are expected to be decided by arbitration in China. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, Chinese legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the Chinese legal system continues to evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform, and enforcement of these laws, regulations, and rules involves uncertainties that may limit remedies available to us. Any litigation in China may be protracted and may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, China may enact new laws or amend current laws that may be detrimental to us, which may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. We have limited business insurance coverage in China. The insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance options. As a result, we have not maintained, and currently do not maintain, any liability, hazard or other insurance covering our services, business, operations, errors, acts or omissions, personnel or properties. To the extent that we are unable to recover from others for any uninsured losses, such losses could result in a loss of capital and significant harm to our business. If any action, suit and/or proceeding is brought against us and we are unable to pay a judgment rendered against us and/or defend ourselves against such action, suit and/or proceeding, our business, financial condition and operations could be negatively affected. Any future outbreak of health epidemics, such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, Asian Influenza, or Asian Bird Flu, or any other epidemic in China could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. From December 2002 to June 2003, China and certain other Asian countries experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as SARS. In addition, recent outbreaks of the Asian Bird Flu have occurred throughout Asia. Outbreaks of SARS, Asian Bird Flu or any other epidemic in the future may disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, a new outbreak of SARS, Asian Bird Flu or any other epidemic likely would reduce the level of economic activity in affected areas, which may lead to a reduction in our revenue if our clients cancel existing contracts or defer future expenditures. In addition, health or other government regulations may require temporary closing of our offices, or the offices of our customers or partners, which would severely disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Pharmaceutical Distribution in China and Wanwei The absence of express laws and regulations in China regarding foreign investment in China’s pharmaceutical distribution sector may cause uncertainty. Pursuant to China’s Administrative Measures on the Foreign Investment in Commercial Sector, as of December 11, 2004, foreign enterprises are permitted to establish or invest in wholly foreign-owned enterprises or joint ventures that engage in wholesale or retail sales of pharmaceuticals in China subject to the implementation of relevant regulations. However, no specific regulation in this regard has been promulgated to date. If specific regulations are not promulgated, or if any promulgated regulations contain clauses that will cause an adverse impact to our current and future acquisitions in China, our operations and business strategy will be adversely affected. Wanwei may be unable to obtain renewals of necessary pharmaceutical distribution permits. Under Chinese law, all pharmaceutical wholesale and retail enterprises engaging in the pharmaceutical distribution business must obtain a pharmaceutical distribution permit, and must comply with China’s GSP standards and obtain a GSP certificate. Both the permit and certificate are valid for five years and are subject to renewal and reassessment by the relevant 23 Table of Contents Chinese authorities, and the standards of compliance required in relation thereto may from time to time be subject to change. Any changes in compliance standards, or any new laws or regulations that prohibit or render it more restrictive for Wanwei or other pharmaceutical distribution enterprises we may acquire in the future to conduct their business or that increase their compliance costs may adversely affect their or our operations and profitability. Wanwei has previously obtained a GSP certificate and pharmaceutical distribution permit. Wanwei’s GSP certificate will expire on April 3, 2008 and its pharmaceutical distribution permit will expire on February 2, 2010. Although we do not believe that Wanwei will be unable to obtain renewals of its GSP certificate and pharmaceutical distribution permit in the future, its ability to do so is primarily outside of its or our control. Any failure by Wanwei to obtain renewals of its GSP certificate or pharmaceutical distribution permit may have a material adverse effect on its operations by restricting its ability to carry out its pharmaceutical distribution business, among other things. Price control regulations may decrease our profitability. The prices of certain medicines Wanwei distributes, including those listed in the Chinese government’s catalogue of medications that are reimbursable under China’s social insurance program, or the Insurance Catalogue, are subject to control by the relevant state or provincial price administration authorities. In practice, price control with respect to these medicines sets a ceiling on their retail price. The actual price of such medicines set by manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers cannot historically exceed the price ceiling imposed by applicable government price control regulations. Although, as a general matter, government price control regulations have resulted in drug prices tending to decline over time, there has been no predictable pattern for such decreases. Revenues from products distributed by Wanwei that are subject to price controls accounted for a total of approximately 86% and 66% of Wanwei’s total revenues in the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Hence, the prices of these medicines could not be increased at Wanwei’s discretion above the price ceiling without prior government approval. It is uncertain whether Wanwei would be able to obtain the necessary approvals to increase the prices of these medicines. This could affect Wanwei’s ability to maximize its profits or to profitably sell these products. The bidding process with respect to the purchase of pharmaceutical products may lead to reduced revenue. Chinese regulations require non-profit medical organizations established in China to implement bidding procedures for the purchase of drugs. It is intended that the implementation of a bidding purchase system will be extended gradually and will cover, among other drugs, those drugs consumed in large volume and commonly used for clinical uses. Pharmaceutical wholesalers must have the due authorization of the pharmaceutical manufacturers in order to participate in the bidding process. If, for the purpose of reducing the bidding price, pharmaceutical manufacturers participate in the bidding process on their own and enter into purchase and sales contracts with medical organizations directly without authorizing a pharmaceutical distributor, the revenue of Wanwei or any other subsidiaries that we may acquire in the future, whose main business is pharmaceutical distribution, may be adversely affected. Even though Wanwei has established long-term business relationships with many medical organizations, if a pharmaceutical manufacturer whose products we do not distribute is awarded a contract under the bidding process, the medical organization that initiated the bidding process will be restricted under its agreement with the winning bidder from purchasing similar products from Wanwei. If the medicines Wanwei distributes are replaced by other medicines or are removed from China’s Insurance Catalogue in the future, Wanwei’s revenue may suffer. Under Chinese regulations, patients purchasing medicines listed by China’s state and/or provincial governments in the Insurance Catalogue may be reimbursed, in part or in whole, by a social medicine fund. Accordingly, pharmaceutical distributors prefer to engage in the distribution of medicines listed in the Insurance Catalogue. Currently, the main products that Wanwei distributes are listed in the Insurance Catalogue. The content of the Insurance Catalogue is subject to change by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security of China, and new medicines may be added to the Insurance Catalogue by provincial level authorities as part of their limited ability to change certain medicines listed in the Insurance Catalogue. If the medicines Wanwei distributes are replaced by other medicines or removed from the Insurance Catalogue in the future, Wanwei’s revenue may suffer. 24 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could depress the market price of our common stock. Since August 10, 2006, our common stock has been traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, including common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants and options, or the market perceives that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could fall and we may be unable to sell our common stock in the future. We had 26,641,191 shares of common stock outstanding as of March 1, 2007. Approximately 8,640,834 of these outstanding shares are held by Abacus, who may be deemed to be our “affiliate“ as that term is defined under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and would be subject to Rule 144. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock over limited time periods would likely materially decrease the market price of our common stock. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent you and other stockholders from influencing corporate decisions, such as significant corporate transactions and the election and replacement or removal of directors and management, and may also result in conflicts of interest that could cause our stock price to decline. As of March 1, 2007, Abacus beneficially owned or controlled approximately 32.4% of our outstanding shares of common stock. If Abacus were to act on its own, it likely could control the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election, replacement or removal of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or any other significant corporate transactions, and by virtue of its ability to control the board of directors could control and influence management composition. Abacus may have different interests than other stockholders. For example, Abacus could act to delay or prevent a change of control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders, could prevent or frustrate attempts to replace or remove current management, or Abacus could pursue strategies that are different from the wishes of other investors. This significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. Our common stock may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, which could lead to costly litigation for us and make an investment in us less appealing. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: • announcements concerning our competitors or the pharmaceutical distribution industry in general; • rate of sales and customer acceptance; • changing factors related to doing business in China; • interruption of supply or changes in our agreements with manufacturers or distributors; • new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines and timing of regulatory approvals; • general and industry-specific economic conditions; • additions to or departures of our key personnel; • variations in our quarterly financial and operating results; • changes in market valuations of other companies that operate in our business segments or in our industry; • lack of adequate trading liquidity; • announcements about our business partners; • changes in accounting principles; and • general market conditions. The market prices of the securities of early-stage companies, particularly companies like ours without consistent product revenues and earnings, could be highly volatile. In the past, companies that experience volatility in the market price of their securities have often faced securities class action litigation. Whether or not meritorious, litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs, divert our management’s attention and resources and harm our financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 