ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this annual report in evaluating our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, other than those we describe below, that are not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. You should also refer to the other information contained in this annual report, including the Forward-Looking Statement section in Item 1, our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and “ Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for a further discussion of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our business. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of losses which may continue and negatively impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. We incurred net losses attributable to common stockholders of $23,832,355 and $20,277,197 for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We cannot assure you that we can achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our operations are subject to the risks and competition inherent in the oil and natural gas industry. We cannot assure you that future operations will be profitable. Revenues and profits, if any, will depend upon various factors, including whether we will be able to expand our revenues. We may not achieve our business objectives, and the failure to achieve such goals would have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and result of operations. 14 Oil and natural gas drilling is a speculative activity and involves numerous risks and substantial and uncertain costs that could adversely affect us. An investment in us should be considered speculative due to the nature of our involvement in the exploration for, and the acquisition, development and production of, oil and natural gas. Oil and natural gas operations involve many risks, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. There is no assurance that commercial quantities of oil or natural gas will be discovered or acquired by us or, even if discovered or acquired, that any such reserves would be economically recoverable. Further, any changes in the regulations to which our business is subject, including those related to the hydraulic fracturing production method, could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. We have substantial capital requirements that, if not met, may hinder our operations. We anticipate that we will make substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves in the future and for future drilling programs. If we have insufficient revenues, we may have a limited ability to expend the capital necessary to undertake or complete future drilling programs. We cannot assure you that debt or equity financing, or cash generated by operations, will be available or sufficient to meet these requirements or for other corporate purposes, or if debt or equity financing is available, that it will be on terms acceptable to us. Moreover, future activities may require us to alter our capitalization significantly. Our inability to access sufficient capital for our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. We may have to limit our exploration and development activity, which may result in a loss of investment. We have a relatively small asset base and limited access to additional capital. Due to our brief operating history and historical operating losses, our operations to date have not been a source of liquidity. We expect significant cash requirements during fiscal year 2013 for our well drilling and completion programs, potential land acquisitions and overhead and working capital purposes. We cannot assure you that we will have, or be able to obtain, sufficient capital to complete our planned exploration and development programs. If additional financing is not available, or is not available on acceptable terms, we will have to curtail our operations, and investors may lose some or all of their investment. We may not adhere to our proposed drilling schedule. Our final determination of whether to drill any scheduled or budgeted wells will be dependent on a number of factors, including: ·the availability and costs of drilling and service equipment and crews; ·economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling; ·prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and natural gas; ·the availability of sufficient capital resources; ·the results of our well drilling and completion programs; ·the acquisition, review and interpretation of seismic data; and ·our ability to obtain permits for drilling locations. Although we have identified or budgeted for numerous drilling locations, we may not be able to drill those locations within our expected time frame, or at all. In addition, our drilling schedule may vary from our expectations because of future uncertainties. Acquisitions may prove to be worth less than we paid because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our recent growth is due in large part to acquisitions of undeveloped leasehold and the drilling and completion of wells that were productive. We expect acquisitions will also contribute to our future growth. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties which we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems, and does not involve a review of seismic data or independent environmental testing. In addition, our review may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their capabilities and deficiencies, including any structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to acquire oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or be able to complete future acquisitions on terms that we believe are acceptable or, even if completed, that do not contain problems that reduce the value of acquired oil and natural gas property. 15 As most of our properties are in the exploration stage, we cannot assure you that we will establish commercial discoveries on our properties. Exploration for economically recoverable reserves of oil and natural gas is subject to a number of risks. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing oil and/or natural gas wells. Much of our properties are only in the exploration stage, and we have only limited revenues from operations. While we do have a limited amount of production of oil and natural gas, we may not establish commercial discoveries on many of our properties. Failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a limited operating history in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations in North Dakota, and if we are not successful in continuing to grow our business, then we may have to scale back or even cease our ongoing business operations. We have a limited operating history in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations in North Dakota. Our success is significantly dependent on a successful acquisition, drilling, completion and production program. Our operations in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations will be subject to all the risks inherent in the establishment of a developing enterprise and the uncertainties arising from the absence of a significant operating history. We may be unable to operate on a profitable basis. We are in the early stage of the exploration and development phase of our plan, and potential investors should be aware of the difficulties normally encountered by enterprises in this stage. If our business plan is not successful and we are not able to operate profitably, investors may lose some or all of their investment. The results of our planned drilling in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations, each an emerging play with limited drilling and production history, are subject to more uncertainties than drilling programs in more established formations and may not meet our expectations for production. Part of our drilling strategy to maximize recoveries from the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations involves the drilling of horizontal wells using completion techniques that have proven to be successful for other companies in this and other shale formations. Our experience with horizontal drilling in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations, as well as the industry’s drilling and production history in these formations (particularly in acreage offsetting ours) is limited. The ultimate success of these drilling and completion strategies and techniques in these formations will be better evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and longer term production profiles are established. In addition, the decline rates in these formations may be more substantial than in other areas and in other shale formations, making overall production difficult to estimate until our experience in these formations increases. Accordingly, the results of our future drilling in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations are more uncertain than drilling results in some other shale formations with established reserves and several years of production histories. Further, access to adequate gathering systems or pipeline takeaway capacity and the availability of drilling rigs and other services may be more challenging in new or emerging plays. If our drilling results are less than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, access to gathering systems and takeaway capacity or otherwise, and/or oil and natural gas prices decline, the return on our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as we anticipate, and we could incur material write-downs of properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future. 16 The lack of availability or high cost of drilling rigs, fracture stimulation crews, equipment, supplies, insurance, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, fracture stimulation crews, equipment, supplies, key infrastructure, insurance or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified crews rise as the number of active rigs and completion fleets in service increases. If increasing levels of exploration and production result in response to strong prices of oil and natural gas, the demand for oilfield services will likely rise, and the costs of these services will likely increase, while the quality of these services may suffer. If the lack of availability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, insurance or qualified personnel were particularly severe in North Dakota or Montana, we could be materially and adversely affected because our operations and properties are concentrated in those areas. Certain United States federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and production may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. On September 12, 2011, President Obama sent to Congress a legislative package that included proposed legislation that, if enacted into law, would eliminate certain key United States federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, among other proposals: ·the repeal of the limited percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas production in the United States; ·the replacement of expensing intangible drilling and development costs in the year incurred with an amortization of those costs over several years; ·the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities; and ·an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted. The passage of this legislation or any similar changes in federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to U.S. oil and natural gas exploration and development. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We rely on independent experts and technical or operational service providers over whom we may have limited control. We use independent contractors to provide us with technical assistance and services. We rely upon the owners and operators of rigs and drilling equipment, and upon providers of oil field services, to drill and develop our prospects to production. In addition, we rely upon the services of other third parties to explore or analyze our prospects to determine a method in which the prospects may be developed in a cost-effective manner. Our limited control over the activities and business practices of these operators and service providers, any inability on our part to maintain satisfactory commercial relationships with them or their failure to provide quality services could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our agreements with operators and other joint venture partners as well as other operational agreements that we may enter into, present a number of challenges that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our agreements with well operators and other joint venture partners, as well as other operational agreements (including agreements with mineral rights owners and suppliers of services, equipment and product transportation), represent a significant portion of our business. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we plan to enter into other similar transactions, some of which may be material. These transactions typically involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including the existence of unknown potential disputes, liabilities or contingencies that arise after entering into these arrangements related to the counterparties to such arrangements. We could experience financial or other setbacks if such transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to execution or integration. Any of these risks could reduce our revenues or increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 We depend on the successful acquisition, exploration and development of oil and natural gas properties to develop any future reserves and grow production and revenue in the future. Acquisitions of oil and natural gas acreage, reserves and assets are typically based on engineering and economic assessments made by independent engineers and/or our own assessments. These assessments include a series of assumptions regarding such factors as recoverability and marketability of oil and natural gas, future prices of oil and natural gas, operating costs, future capital expenditures and royalties and other government levies which will be imposed over the producing life of the reserves. Many of these factors are subject to change and are beyond our control. In particular, the prices of and markets for oil and natural gas products may change from those anticipated at the time of making such assessment. In addition, all such assessments involve a measure of geologic and engineering uncertainty that could result in lower production and reserves than anticipated. Initial assessments of potential acquisitions may be based on internal analysis or on reports by a firm of independent engineers that are not the same as the firm that we would use for general assessments of our properties and reserves. Because each firm may have different evaluation methods and approaches, these initial assessments of potential acquisitions may differ significantly from the assessments of the firm used by us for general assessments of our properties and reserves. Properties we acquire may be in an unexpected condition and may subject us to increased costs and liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Although we review properties prior to acquisition in a manner consistent with industry practices, such reviews are not capable of identifying all potential adverse conditions. Generally, it is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. Ordinarily, we will focus our review efforts on the properties to which we assign higher value or properties with known adverse conditions and will sample the remainder. However, even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems or permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their condition or any deficiencies prior to acquisition. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. As a result, we may assume unknown liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. No assurance can be given that defects in our title to oil and natural gas interests do not exist. Title to oil and natural gas interests is often not possible to determine without incurring substantial expense. An independent title review was completed with respect to certain of the oil and natural gas rights acquired by us and the interests in oil and natural gas rights owned by us. However, no assurance can be given that title defects do not exist. If a title defect does exist, it is possible that we may lose all or a portion of the properties to which the title defect relates. Our actual interest in certain properties may therefore vary from our records. We may have difficulty managing growth in our business, which could adversely affect our business plan, financial condition and results of operations. Growth in accordance with our business plan, if achieved, will place a significant strain on our financial, technical, operational and management resources. As we expand our activities and increase the number of projects we are evaluating or in which we participate, there will be additional demands on these resources. The failure to continue to upgrade our technical, administrative, operating and financial control systems or the occurrences of unexpected expansion difficulties, including the failure to recruit and retain experienced managers, geologists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to timely execute our business plan. Most of our net leasehold acreage is undeveloped, and that acreage may not ultimately be developed or become commercially productive, which could have a material adverse effect on our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our future cash flow and income. Most of our net leasehold acreage is undeveloped, or acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas. In addition, many of our oil and natural gas leases require us to drill wells that are commercially productive, and if we are unsuccessful in drilling such wells, we could lose our rights under such leases. We intend to develop our leasehold acreage by funding our exploration and development activities. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our future cash flow and income are highly dependent on successfully developing our undeveloped leasehold acreage. 18 We may be unable to successfully acquire additional leasehold interests or other oil and natural gas properties, which may inhibit our ability to grow our production. Acquisitions of leasehold interests or other oil and natural gas properties have been an important element of our business, and we will continue to pursue acquisitions in the future. In recent years, we have pursued and consummated leasehold or other property acquisitions that have provided us opportunities to expand our acreage position and grow our production. Although we regularly engage in discussions and submit proposals regarding leasehold interests or other oil and natural gas properties, suitable acquisitions may not be available in the future on reasonable terms. Our method of accounting for investments in oil and natural gas properties may result in impairment of asset value. We follow the full cost method of accounting for oil and natural gas properties. Accordingly, all costs associated with the acquisition, exploration and development of oil and natural gas properties, including costs of undeveloped leasehold, geological and geophysical expenses, dry holes, leasehold equipment and other costs directly related to acquisition, exploration and development activities, are capitalized. Capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties also include estimated asset retirement costs recorded based on the fair value of the asset retirement obligation when incurred. The capitalized costs plus future development and dismantlement costs are depleted and charged to operations using the equivalent unit-of-production method based on proved oil and natural gas reserves as determined annually by our independent petroleum engineers and determined in the interim quarterly periods by an experienced petroleum engineer on our staff. To the extent that such capitalized costs, net of their accumulated depreciation and amortization, exceed the sum of (i) the present value (discounting at 10% per annum) of estimated future net revenues from proved oil and natural gas reserves and (ii) the capitalized costs of unevaluated properties (both adjusted for income tax effects), such excess costs are charged to operations, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have recognized such impairment expense in each of the past two fiscal years. Once incurred such a write-down of oil and natural gas properties is not reversible at a later date, even if oil or natural gas prices substantially increase or if estimated proved reserves substantially increase. We cannot control the activities on the properties we do not operate and are unable to ensure their proper operation and profitability. We currently do not operate most of the properties in which we have an interest; however, we currently control and intend to operate 52.5% of our acreage. As a result, we have limited ability to exercise influence over, and control the risks associated with, operations of our non-operated properties. The failure of an operator of our non-operated wells to adequately perform operations, an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements or an operator’s failure to act in our best interests could reduce our production and revenues. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator’s timing and amount of capital expenditures, expertise and financial resources, inclusion of other participants in drilling wells and use of technology. Our lack of diversification will increase the risk of an investment in us. Our current business focus is on the oil and natural gas industry in a limited number of properties, in North Dakota and Montana. Larger companies have the ability to manage their risk by diversification. However, we currently lack diversification, in terms of both the nature and geographic scope of our business. As a result, we will likely be impacted more acutely by factors affecting our industry or the regions in which we operate, such as the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations, than we would if our business were more diversified, increasing our risk profile. 19 We face strong competition from other oil and natural gas companies. We encounter competition from other oil and natural gas companies in all areas of our operations, including the acquisition of exploratory prospects and proven properties. Our competitors include major integrated oil and natural gas companies, numerous independent oil and natural gas companies and individuals. Many of our competitors have been engaged in the oil and natural gas business much longer than we have and possess substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than us. These companies may be able to pay more for exploratory projects and productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may be able to expend greater resources on the existing and changing technologies that we believe are and will be increasingly important to attaining success in the industry, particularly in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations in which we focus. Such competitors may also be in a better position to secure oilfield services and equipment on a timely basis or on more favorable terms, particularly in light of the equipment and personnel shortages in the areas in which we focus. We may not be able to conduct our operations, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions successfully in this highly competitive environment, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Current global financial conditions have been characterized by increased volatility which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Current global financial conditions and recent market events have been characterized by increased volatility and a tightening of the credit and capital markets has reduced the amount of available liquidity and overall economic activity as compared to historical levels. We cannot assure you that debt or equity financing, the ability to borrow funds or cash generated by operations will be available or sufficient to meet or satisfy our initiatives, objectives or requirements. Our inability to access sufficient amounts of capital on terms acceptable to us for our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. The potential profitability of oil and natural gas properties depends, in part, upon factors beyond our control. The potential profitability of oil and natural gas properties is dependent upon many factors beyond our control. For instance, world prices and markets for oil and natural gas are unpredictable, highly volatile, potentially subject to governmental fixing, pegging, controls or any combination of these and other factors, and respond to changes in domestic, international, political, social and economic environments. Additionally, due to worldwide economic uncertainty, the availability and cost of funds for production and other expenses have become increasingly difficult, if not impossible, to project. These changes and events may materially affect our financial performance. In addition, a productive well may become commercially unproductive in the event that water or other deleterious substances are encountered which impair or prevent the commercial production of oil and/or natural gas from the well. These factors cannot be accurately predicted and the combination of these factors may result in us not receiving an adequate return on invested capital, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. The marketability of natural resources will be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. Our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth depend highly upon the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production. The markets and prices for oil and natural gas depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for oil and natural gas, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions, and other factors, including: ·worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and natural gas; ·actions taken by foreign oil and natural gas producing nations; ·political conditions and events (including instability or armed conflict) in oil-producing or natural gas-producing regions; ·the level of global and domestic oil and natural gas inventories; ·the price and level of foreign imports; ·the level of consumer demand; ·the price and availability of alternative fuels; ·the availability of pipeline or other takeaway capacity; ·weather conditions; ·terrorist activity; ·new recovery technology developments; ·new recoverable discoveries; ·domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and ·the overall worldwide and domestic economic environment. 20 Significant declines in oil and natural gas prices for an extended period may have the following effects on our business: ·cause us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects; ·reduce our revenues, operating income and cash flow; ·limit our access to sources of capital; and ·adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations. We may have difficulty distributing our oil and natural gas production, which could harm our financial condition. In order to sell the oil and natural gas that we produce from the Williston Basin, we must make arrangements for storage and distribution to the market. We intend to rely on local infrastructure and the availability of transportation for storage and shipment of our products, but infrastructure development and storage and transportation facilities may be insufficient for our needs at commercially acceptable terms in the localities in which we operate. This situation could be exacerbated to the extent that our operations are conducted in remote areas that are difficult to access, such as areas that are distant from existing shipping and/or pipeline facilities. These factors may affect our ability to explore and develop properties and to store and transport our oil and natural gas production, which may increase our expenses. Furthermore, weather conditions or natural disasters, actions by companies doing business in one or more of the areas in which we will operate or labor disputes may impair the distribution of oil and/or natural gas and in turn diminish our financial condition or ability to maintain our operations. Seasonal weather conditions and other factors could adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities. Our operations could be adversely affected by weather conditions. In the Williston Basin, drilling and other oil and natural gas activities cannot be conducted as effectively during the winter months. Winter and severe weather conditions limit and may temporarily halt the ability to operate during such conditions. Wet weather and spring thaw may make the ground unstable. Consequently, municipalities and state transportation departments enforce road bans that restrict the movement of rigs and other heavy equipment, thereby reducing activity levels. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay or temporarily halt our oil and natural gas operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to retain or recruit qualified managerial, operations and field personnel, we may not be able to continue our operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of our directors and officers and that of key managerial, operational, land, finance and accounting staff. We have not and do not expect to obtain key man insurance on directors, officers or any key personnel. In addition, in order to successfully implement and manage our business plan, we will be dependent upon, among other things, successfully recruiting qualified managerial and field personnel having experience in the required aspects of our oil and natural gas exploration business. Competition for qualified individuals is intense. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain existing employees or that we will be able to find, attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. Oil and natural gas operations are subject to comprehensive regulation which may cause substantial delays or require capital outlays in excess of those anticipated, causing an adverse effect on us. Oil and natural gas operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including laws regulating removal of natural resources from the ground and the discharge of materials into the environment. Oil and natural gas operations are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations which seek to maintain health and safety standards by regulating the design and use of drilling methods and equipment. Various permits from government authorities are required for drilling operations to be conducted and no assurance can be given that such permits will be received. The failure or delay in obtaining the requisite approvals or permits may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Hydraulic fracturing, the process used for releasing oil and natural gas from shale rock, has recently come under increased scrutiny and could be the subject of further regulation that could impact the timing and cost of development. Recently there has been increasing public and regulatory attention focused on the potential environmental impact of hydraulic fracturing (or “fracking”) operations. This process, which involves the injection of water, sand and certain additives deep underground to release natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil deposits, is central to our operations and future regulation of these activities could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Various government agencies, political representatives and public interest groups have raised concerns about the potential for fracking to lead to groundwater contamination, and various regulatory and legislative measures have been proposed or adopted at the federal, state and local level to study or monitor related concerns, to regulate well operations and related production and waste streams, or to ban fracking entirely. For example, various states and federal regulatory authorities require or are considering requiring public disclosure of the chemicals contained in fracking fluids, and testing and monitoring obligations relating to well integrity and operation. North Dakota, a state in which we conduct operations, recently amended its current regulations to require additional pollution control equipment at well sites and enhanced emergency response procedures in addition to other measures designed to reduce potential environmental impacts. In 2011, the EPA announced its intention to consider pre-treatment standards for produced waters that are sent to third party wastewater treatment plants. In addition, bills have been proposed in the U.S. Congress to allow the EPA to regulate the injection of fracking fluids under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, which could require hydraulic fracturing operations to meet federal permitting and financial assurance requirements, adhere to certain construction specifications, fulfill monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping obligations, and meet plugging and abandonment requirements. The proposed legislation also would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, in light of concerns about seismic activity being triggered by the injection of produced waters into underground wells, certain regulators are considering additional requirements related to seismic safety. Other concerns have been raised regarding water usage, air emissions (including greenhouse gas emissions) and waste disposal, and certain jurisdictions have imposed moratoria on fracking operations while the potential impacts are studied. The EPA, Congress and other government representatives continue to investigate the impacts of fracking, and additional studies and regulatory or legislative initiatives are possible. See “Item 1 – Business Overview – Environmental Laws and Regulations” for further discussion of applicable environmental laws. Hydraulic fracturing is the primary production method used to produce reserves located in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations. Depending on the legislation that may ultimately be enacted or the regulations that may be adopted at the federal, and/or state levels, exploration and production activities that entail hydraulic fracturing could be subject to additional regulation and permitting requirements. Individually or collectively, such new legislation or regulation could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional burdens that could increase the costs and delay or curtail the development of unconventional oil and natural gas resources from shale formations which are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The sale of our oil and natural gas production depends in part on gathering, transportation and processing facilities. Any limitation in the availability of, or our access to, those facilities would interfere with our ability to market the oil and natural gas that we produce and could adversely impact our drilling program, cash flows and results of operations. We deliver oil and natural gas through gathering, processing and pipeline systems that we do not own. The amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce and sell is subject to the accessibility, availability, proximity and capacity of these gathering, processing and pipeline systems. In particular, natural gas produced in the Bakken has a high Btu content that requires gas processing to remove the natural gas liquids before it can be redelivered into transmission pipelines. Industry-wide in the Williston Basin, there is currently a shortage of gas gathering and processing capacity. Such shortage has limited our ability to sell our gas production. As a result, the majority of our gas from the Bakken wells to date has been flared. 22 The lack of availability of capacity in any of the gathering, processing and pipeline systems, and in particular the processing facilities, could result in our inability to realize the full economic potential of our production or in a reduction of the price offered for our production. Additionally, if we were prohibited from flaring natural gas due to environmental or other regulations, then we would be forced to shut-in producing wells, which would also adversely impact our drilling program. Any significant change in market factors or other conditions affecting these infrastructure systems and facilities, as well as any delays in constructing new infrastructure systems and facilities or any changes in regulatory requirements affecting flaring activities, could harm our business and, in turn, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Exploration activities are subject to certain environmental regulations which may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of our operations. In general, our exploration activities are subject to certain federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. Specifically, we are subject to legislation regarding air emissions into the environment, water discharges and storage and disposal of hazardous wastes. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of permits before drilling commences; restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment from drilling and production activities; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and areas with endangered or threatened plant or animal species; require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells; and impose substantial liabilities for contamination and damage to natural resources resulting from our operations. Such laws and regulations increase the costs of our exploration activities and may prevent, delay or block the commencement or continuance of a given operation. In addition, legislation has been enacted which requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities. Such laws and regulations are frequently changed, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance. In October, 2011, the EPA announced that it will consider federal pre-treatment standards for certain of our wastewater streams, which we would be required to meet before disposing of these waste streams at third party wastewater treatment plants. Also in 2011, the EPA promulgated additional restrictions on emissions from oil and natural gas production and exploration activities, as well as amended GHG reporting obligations. We are assessing the potential impact of these regulatory initiatives on our operations. See “Item 1 – Environmental Laws and Regulations” for further discussion of applicable environmental laws. These or future regulatory initiatives may impose substantial restrictions on our future operations, and could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for, or responding to, those effects. In recent years, the U.S. Congress, the EPA and various states have proposed various regulatory and legislative initiatives to address greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions in the United States. Recently, the EPA has issued multiple regulations designed at monitoring and limiting GHG emissions. While certain of such regulations have been challenged in litigation, there can be no assurance that such litigation will be successful. On November 30, 2010, the EPA issued a final rule requiring reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from the oil and natural gas industry. We are currently assessing the costs of complying with these new reporting requirements, which were amended in 2011. In addition, a subcommittee of the Department of Energy recently recommended that the EPA enhance its GHG reporting for our sector, by including additional sources of emissions and by including methane in reporting requirements. Canada, where we also hold oil and gas leases, is also implementing laws concerning GHG emissions. These or future federal, state, regional or international monitoring or regulatory requirements relating to climate change could require us to obtain permits or allowances for our GHG emissions, install new pollution controls, increase our operational costs, limit our operations or adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas produced from our lands. See “Item 1 – Business Overview – Environmental Laws and Regulations.” 23 Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our exploration and production operations. Significant physical effects of climate change could also have an indirect effect on our financing and operations by disrupting the transportation or process-related services provided by midstream companies, service companies or suppliers with whom we have a business relationship. We may not be able to recover through insurance some or any of the damages, losses or costs that may result from potential physical effects of climate change and as a result, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Exploratory drilling involves many risks, and we may become liable for pollution or other liabilities which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Drilling operations generally involve a high degree of risk. Hazards such as unusual or unexpected geological formations, power outages, labor disruptions, blow-outs, sour gas leakage, fire, inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labor and other risks are involved. We may become subject to liability for pollution or hazards against which we cannot adequately insure or for which we may elect not to insure. Incurring any such liability may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any change in government regulation and/or administrative practices may have a negative impact on our ability to operate and on our profitability. The laws, regulations, policies or current administrative practices of any government body, organization or regulatory agency in the United States or any other jurisdiction in which we operate may be changed, applied or interpreted in a manner which will fundamentally alter our ability to carry on our business. The actions, policies or regulations, or changes thereto, of any government body or regulatory agency, or other special interest groups, may have a detrimental effect on us. Any or all of these situations may have a negative impact on our ability to operate and/or our profitability. Aboriginal claims could have an adverse effect on us and our operations. Aboriginal peoples have claimed aboriginal title and rights to portions of Montana where we operate. We are not aware that any claims have been made in respect of our property or assets. However, if a claim arose and was successful, it could have an adverse effect on us and our business operations, financial conditions or prospects. We do not insure against all potential operating risks. We might incur substantial losses from, and be subject to substantial liability claims for, uninsured or underinsured risks related to our oil and natural gas operations. We do not insure against all risks. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities will be subject to hazards and risks associated with drilling for, producing and transporting oil and natural gas, and any of these risks can cause substantial losses resulting from: ·environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; ·abnormally pressured formations; ·mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling and service tools and casing collapse; ·fires and explosions; ·personal injuries and death; ·regulatory investigations and penalties; and ·natural disasters. We might elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 24 We are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to timely comply with Section 404 or if the costs related to compliance are significant, our profitability, stock price, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are required to comply with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires that we document and test our internal controls over financial reporting and issue management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. We believe that the out-of-pocket costs, the diversion of management’s attention from running the day-to-day operations and operational changes caused by the need to comply with the requirements of Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could be significant. If the time and costs associated with such compliance exceed our current expectations, our profitability, stock price, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We cannot be certain at this time that we will identify any material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 or if we identify and report any additional material weaknesses, the accuracy and timeliness of the filing of our annual and quarterly reports may be materially adversely affected and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting could result in an increased chance of fraud and the loss of customers, reduce our ability to obtain financing and require additional expenditures to comply with these requirements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. Some of the factors that could negatively affect such share price include: ·actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; ·liquidity; ·sales of common stock by our stockholders; ·changes in oil and natural gas prices; ·changes in our cash flow from operations or earnings estimates; ·publication of research reports about us or the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry generally; ·increases in market interest rates which may increase our cost of capital; ·changes in applicable laws or regulations, court rulings and enforcement and legal actions; ·changes in market valuations of similar companies; ·adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we incur in the future; ·additions or departures of key management personnel; ·actions by our stockholders; ·commencement of or involvement in litigation; ·news reports relating to trends, concerns, technological or competitive developments, regulatory changes and other related issues in our industry; ·speculation in the press or investment community regarding our business; ·inability to list our common stock on a national securities exchange; ·general market and economic conditions; and ·domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. Financial markets have recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of companies and that have, in many cases, been unrelated to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. Accordingly, the market price of our common stock may decline even if our results of operations, underlying asset values or prospects improve or remain consistent. Additionally, these factors, as well as other related factors, may cause decreases in asset values that are deemed to be other than temporary. 25 Limited trading volume in our common stock may contribute to price volatility. As a relatively small company with a limited market capitalization, even if our shares are more widely disseminated, we are uncertain as to whether a more active trading market in our common stock will develop. As a result, relatively small trades may have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. In addition, because of the limited trading volume in our common stock and the price volatility of our common stock, you may be unable to sell your shares of common stock when you desire or at the price you desire. The inability to sell your shares in a declining market because of such illiquidity, or at a price you desire, may substantially increase your risk of loss. In the past, we have not paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In the past, we have not paid dividends on our common stock and do not expect to declare or pay any cash or other dividends in the foreseeable future on our common stock, as we intend to use cash flow generated by operations to develop our business. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. Future sales or other issuances of our common stock could depress the market for our common stock. We may seek to raise additional funds through one or more public offerings of our common stock, in amounts and at prices and terms determined at the time of the offering. We may also use our common stock as consideration to make acquisitions, including acquiring additional leasehold interests. Any issuances of large quantities of our common stock could reduce the price of our common stock; and, to the extent that we issue equity securities to fund our business plan, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Issuances, or the availability for sale, of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the value of our common stock. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future issuances of our common stock, or the availability of common stock for future sales, will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market and the availability of shares for future sale, including by one or more of our significant stockholders or shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options to acquire shares of our common stock, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. This in turn would adversely affect the fair value of the common stock and could impair our future ability to raise capital through an offering of our equity securities. Anti-takeover provisions could make a third party acquisition of us difficult. We are subject to the anti-takeover law of the Nevada Revised Statutes, commonly known as the Business Combinations Act. This law provides that specified persons who, together with affiliates and associates, own, or within three years did own, 10% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation cannot engage in specified business combinations with us for a period of three years after the date on which the person became an interested stockholder. The law defines the term “business combination” to encompass a wide variety of transactions with or caused by an interested stockholder, including mergers, asset sales and other transactions in which the interested stockholder receives or could receive a benefit on other than a pro rata basis with other stockholders. This provision has an anti-takeover effect for transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 26 