ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained herein as well as the information included in this Annual Report in evaluating our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, other than those we describe below, that are not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. You should refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Risks Relating to Our Business: We Have a History Of Losses Which May Continue, Which May Negatively Impact Our Ability to Achieve Our Business Objectives. We incurred net losses of $29,600,747 and $4,281,969 for the years ended January 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We cannot assure you that we can achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our operations are subject to the risks and competition inherent in the establishment of a business enterprise. There can be no assurance that future operations will be profitable. Revenues and profits, if any, will depend upon various factors, including whether we will be able to continue expansion of our revenue. We may not achieve our business objectives and the failure to achieve such goals would have an adverse impact on us. Our Independent Auditors Have Expressed Substantial Doubt About Our Ability to Continue As a Going Concern, Which May Hinder Our Ability to Obtain Future Financing. In their report dated April 24, 2008, our independent auditors stated that our financial statements for the year ended January 31, 2008 were prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is an issue raised as a result of recurring losses from operations. We continue to experience net operating losses. Our ability to continue as a going concern is subject to our ability to generate a profit and/or obtain necessary funding from outside sources, including obtaining additional funding from the sale of our securities, increasing sales or obtaining loans and grants from various financial institutions where possible. Our continued net operating losses increase the difficulty in meeting such goals and there can be no assurances that such methods will prove successful. We Have a Limited Operating History and if We are not Successful in Continuing to Grow Our Business, Then We may have to Scale Back or Even Cease Our Ongoing Business Operations. We have received a limited amount of revenues from operations and have limited assets. We have yet to generate positive earnings and there can be no assurance that we will ever operate profitably. Our company has a limited operating history. Our success is significantly dependent on a successful acquisition, drilling, completion and production program. Our operations will be subject to all the risks inherent in the establishment of a developing enterprise and the uncertainties arising from the absence of a significant operating history. We may be unable to locate recoverable reserves or operate on a profitable basis. We are in the exploration stage and potential investors should be aware of the difficulties normally encountered by enterprises in the exploration stage. If our business plan is not successful, and we are not able to operate profitably, investors may lose some or all of their investment in our company. Because We Are Small and Do Not Have Much Capital, We May Have to Limit our Exploration Activity Which May Result in a Loss of Your Investment. Because we are small and do not have much capital, we must limit our exploration activity. As such we may not be able to complete an exploration program that is as thorough as we would like. In that event, existing reserves may go undiscovered. Without finding reserves, we cannot generate revenues and you will lose your investment. 9 If We Are Unable to Retain the Services of Messrs. Gustafson and Hietala or If We Are Unable to Successfully Recruit Qualified Managerial and Field Personnel Having Experience in Oil and Gas Exploration, We May Not Be Able to Continue Our Operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of Mr. Mark Gustafson, our Chief Executive Officer, President, and a director and Mr. Ron Hietala, a director and President of Elmworth Energy Corporation, our wholly-owned subsidiary. Loss of the services of Messrs. Gustafson or Hietala could have a material adverse effect on our growth, revenues, and prospective business. We have obtained key-man insurance on the life of Mr. Hietala and do not intend to further pursue key man insurance on the life of Mr. Gustafson at this time. In addition, in order to successfully implement and manage our business plan, we will be dependent upon, among other things, successfully recruiting qualified managerial and field personnel having experience in the oil and gas exploration business. Competition for qualified individuals is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to find, attract and retain existing employees or that we will be able to find, attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. As Most of Our Properties are in the Exploration Stage, There Can be no Assurance That We Will Establish Commercial Discoveries on Our Properties. Exploration for economic reserves of oil and gas is subject to a number of risk factors. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing oil and/or gas wells. Most of our properties are in the exploration stage only and we have only limited revenues from operations. While we do have a limited amount of proven reserves of gas, we may not establish commercial discoveries on any of our properties. The Potential Profitability of Oil and Gas Ventures Depends Upon Factors Beyond the Control of Our Company. The potential profitability of oil and gas properties is dependent upon many factors beyond our control. For instance, world prices and markets for oil and gas are unpredictable, highly volatile, potentially subject to governmental fixing, pegging, controls, or any combination of these and other factors, and respond to changes in domestic, international, political, social, and economic environments. Additionally, due to worldwide economic uncertainty, the availability and cost of funds for production and other expenses have become increasingly difficult, if not impossible, to project. These changes and events may materially affect our financial performance. Adverse weather conditions can also hinder drilling operations. A productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well. In addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is impregnated with water or other deleterious substances. The marketability of oil and gas which may be acquired or discovered will be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the proximity and capacity of oil and gas pipelines and processing equipment, market fluctuations of prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, allowable production and environmental protection. These factors cannot be accurately predicted and the combination of these factors may result in our company not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. The Oil and Gas Industry is Highly Competitive and There is no Assurance that We Will be Successful in Acquiring and Continuing Leases/Permits. The oil and gas industry is intensely competitive. We compete with numerous individuals and companies, including many major oil and gas companies, which have substantially greater technical, financial and operational resources and staffs. Accordingly, there is a high degree of competition for desirable oil and gas leases, suitable properties for drilling operations and necessary drilling equipment, as well as for access to funds. We cannot predict whether the necessary funds can be raised or that any projected work will be completed. We cannot predict whether governments will convert our exploration agreements into production agreements, including our Windsor Block exploration agreement with the Nova Scotia governments which is due to expire on September 15, 2008. 10 The Marketability of Natural Resources Will be Affected by Numerous Factors Beyond Our Control Which May Result in Us not Receiving a Return on Invested Capital Sufficient to be Profitable or Viable. The marketability of natural resources which may be acquired or discovered by us will be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include market fluctuations in oil and gas pricing and demand, the proximity and capacity of natural resource markets and processing equipment, governmental regulations, land tenure, land use, regulation concerning the importing and exporting of oil and gas and environmental protection regulations. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination of these factors may result in us receiving a return on invested capital that is insufficient to be profitable or viable. Oil and Gas Operations are Subject to Comprehensive Regulation Which May Cause Substantial Delays or Require Capital Outlays in Excess of Those Anticipated Causing an Adverse Effect on Our Company. Oil and gas operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including laws regulating removal of natural resources from the ground and the discharge of materials into the environment. Oil and gas operations are also subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations which seek to maintain health and safety standards by regulating the design and use of drilling methods and equipment. Various permits from government bodies are required for drilling operations to be conducted; no assurance can be given that such permits will be received. Environmental standards imposed by federal, provincial, or local authorities may be changed and any such changes may have material adverse effects on our activities. Moreover, compliance with such laws may cause substantial delays or require capital outlays in excess of those anticipated, thus causing an adverse effect on us. Additionally, we may be subject to liability for pollution or other environmental damages. We generally maintain insurance coverage customary to the industry; however, we are not fully insured against all possible environmental risks. To date we have not been required to spend any material amount on compliance with environmental regulations. However, we may be required to do so in future and this may affect our ability to expand or maintain our operations. Due to the high salinity of our frac fluid that has flowed back from the Kennetcook #1 and #2 wells and that the Nova Scotia government has not set standards for this fluid disposal, we can provide no assurance that the estimated amounts in the financial statements will not be significantly higher. Exploration Activities are Subject to Certain Environmental Regulations Which May Prevent or Delay the Commencement or Continuance of Our Operations. In general, our exploration activities are subject to certain federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. Such laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material effect on our operations or financial condition to date. Specifically, we are subject to legislation regarding emissions into the environment, water discharges and storage and disposition of hazardous wastes. In addition, legislation has been enacted which requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities. However, such laws and regulations are frequently changed and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance. Generally, environmental requirements do not appear to affect us any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than other companies in the industry. We believe that our operations comply, in all material respects, with all applicable environmental regulations. Our operating partners generally maintain insurance coverage customary to the industry; however, we are not fully insured against all possible environmental risks. Exploratory Drilling Involves Many Risks and We May Become Liable for Pollution or Other Liabilities Which May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Financial Position. Drilling operations generally involve a high degree of risk. Hazards such as unusual or unexpected geological formations, power outages, labor disruptions, blow-outs, sour gas leakage, fire, inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labor, and other risks are involved. We may become subject to liability for pollution or hazards against which we cannot adequately insure or for which we may elect not to insure. Incurring any such liability may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operations. 11 Any Change in Government Regulation and/pr Administrative Practices May Have a Negative Impact on Our Ability to Operate and Our Profitability. The laws, regulations, policies or current administrative practices of any government body, organization or regulatory agency in the United States or any other jurisdiction, may be changed, applied or interpreted in a manner which will fundamentally alter the ability of our company to carry on our business. The actions, policies or regulations, or changes thereto, of any government body or regulatory agency, or other special interest groups, may have a detrimental effect on us. Any or all of these situations may have a negative impact on our ability to operate and/or our profitably. Risks Relating to Our Outstanding Financing Arrangements: There Are Essentially a Limitless Number of Shares Underlying Our Convertible Debentures That May be Available for Future Sale and the Sale of These Shares May Depress the Market Price of Our Common Stock. As of April 24, 2008, we had 48,653,758 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, secured convertible debentures issued on December 8, 2005 outstanding that may be converted into 3,294,160 shares of common stock based on current market prices, and convertible debentures issued on December 28, 2005 and January 23, 2006 outstanding that may be converted into 2,500,000 shares of common stock. All of the shares, including all of the shares issuable upon conversion of the convertible debentures, may be sold without restriction. The sale of these shares may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The Continuously Adjustable Conversion Price Feature of Our Secured Convertible Debentures Could Require Us to Issue a Substantially Greater Number of Shares, Which Will Cause Dilution to Our Existing Stockholders. Our obligation to issue shares upon conversion of our secured convertible debentures issued to YA Global Investments on December 8, 2005 is essentially limitless. The following is an example of the number of shares of our common stock that are issuable, upon conversion of our $4,625,000 remaining face amount of secured convertible debentures (excluding accrued interest), based on market prices 25%, 50% and 75% below the market price, as of April 24, 2008 of $1.56. With Number % of % Below Price Per Discount of Shares Outstanding Market Share at 10% Issuable Stock 25% $ 1.17 $ 1.053 4,392,213 8.28 % 50% $ 0.78 $ 0.702 6,588,319 11.93 % 75% $ 0.39 $ 0.351 13,176,638 21.31 % As illustrated, the number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our secured convertible debentures will increase if the market price of our stock declines, which will cause dilution to our existing stockholders. The Continuously Adjustable Conversion Price Feature of our Secured Convertible Debentures May Encourage Investors to Make Short Sales in Our Common Stock, Which Could Have a Depressive Effect on the Price of Our Common Stock. The secured convertible debentures are convertible into shares of our common stock at a 10% discount to the trading price of the common stock prior to the conversion. The downward pressure on the price of the common stock as the selling stockholder converts and sells material amounts of common stock could encourage short sales by investors. Short sales by investors could place further downward pressure on the price of the common stock. In addition, not only the sale of shares issued upon conversion of secured convertible debentures, but also the mere perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of the common stock. 12 The Issuance of Shares Upon Conversion of the Secured Convertible Debentures and Convertible Debentures May Cause Immediate and Substantial Dilution to Our Existing Stockholders. The issuance of shares upon conversion of the secured convertible debentures and convertible debentures may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other stockholders since the selling stockholders may ultimately convert and sell the full amount issuable on conversion. Although YA Global Investments, L.P. may not convert its secured convertible notes if such conversion would cause it to own more than 4.99% of our outstanding common stock and Bank Sal. Oppenheim Jr. & Cie., (Schweiz) AG and Centrum Bank may not convert their convertible debentures if such conversion would cause them to own more than 4.9% of our outstanding common stock, this restriction does not prevent YA Global Investments, L.P., Bank Sal. Oppenheim Jr. & Cie., (Schweiz) AG or Centrum Bank from converting and/or exercising some of their holdings and then converting the rest of their holdings. In this way, YA Global Investments, L.P., Bank Sal. Oppenheim Jr. & Cie., (Schweiz) AG and Centrum Bank could sell more than their limit while never holding more than this limit. There is no upper limit on the number of shares that may be issued upon conversion of the secured convertible debentures issued to YA Global Investments, L.P. which will have the effect of further diluting the proportionate equity interest and voting power of holders of our common stock, including investors in this offering. If We Are Required for any Reason to Repay Our Outstanding Convertible Debentures, We Would Be Required to Deplete Our Working Capital, If Available, Or Raise Additional Funds. Our Failure to Repay the Convertible Debentures, If Required, Could Result in Legal Action Against Us, Which Could Require the Sale of Substantial Assets. In December 2005, we entered into three securities purchase agreements for the sale of an aggregate of $25,000,000 principal amount of convertible debentures, secured and unsecured. The $15,000,000 in secured convertible debentures, of which $4,625,000 remained outstanding as of April 24, 2008, are due and payable, with 5% interest, three years from the date of issuance, unless sooner converted into shares of our common stock. Additionally, the $10,000,000 in convertible debentures, which all remained outstanding as of April 24, 2008, are due and payable, with 7.5% interest, on June 1, 2009, unless sooner converted into shares of our common stock. In addition, any event of default such as our failure to repay the principal or interest when due, our failure to issue shares of common stock upon conversion by the holder, our failure to have our registration statements continue to be effective, breach of any covenant, representation or warranty in the Securities Purchase Agreements or related convertible debentures, the assignment or appointment of a receiver to control a substantial part of our property or business, the filing of a money judgment, writ or similar process against our company in excess of $50,000, the commencement of a bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or liquidation proceeding against our company and the delisting of our common stock could require the early repayment of the convertible debentures, secured and unsecured, including default interest rate on the outstanding principal balance of the debentures if the default is not cured with the specified grace period. We anticipate that the full amount of the convertible debentures, secured and unsecured, will be converted into shares of our common stock, in accordance with the terms of the convertible debentures. If we were required to repay the convertible debentures, secured and unsecured, we would be required to use our limited working capital and raise additional funds. If we were unable to repay the debentures when required, the debenture holders could commence legal action against us and foreclose on all of our assets to recover the amounts due. Any such action would require us to curtail or cease operations. If an Event of Default Occurs under the Securities Purchase Agreement dated December 8, 2005, Secured Convertible Debentures or Security Agreements, the Investors Could Take Possession of all Our Goods, Inventory, Contractual Rights and General Intangibles, Receivables, Documents, Instruments, Chattel Paper, and Intellectual Property. In connection with the Securities Purchase Agreement dated December 8, 2005, we and our subsidiaries executed Security Agreements in favor of the investors granting them a first priority security interest in all of our goods, inventory, contractual rights and general intangibles, receivables, documents, instruments, chattel paper, and intellectual property. The Security Agreements state that if an event of default occurs under the Securities Purchase Agreement, Secured Convertible Debentures or Security Agreements, the Investors have the right to take possession of the collateral, to operate our business using the collateral, and have the right to assign, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of and deliver all or any part of the collateral, at public or private sale or otherwise to satisfy our obligations under these agreements. 13 Risks Relating to Our Common Stock: If We Fail to Remain Current in Our Reporting Requirements, We Could be Removed From the OTC Bulletin Board Which Would Limit the Ability of Broker-Dealers to Sell Our Securities and the Ability of Stockholders to Sell Their Securities in the Secondary Market. Companies trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, such as us, must be reporting issuers under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and must be current in their reports under Section 13, in order to maintain price quotation privileges on the OTC Bulletin Board. If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements, we could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, the market liquidity for our securities could be severely adversely affected by limiting the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. Our Common Stock is Subject to the "Penny Stock" Rules of the SEC and the Trading Market in Our Securities is Limited, Which Makes Transactions in Our Stock Cumbersome and May Reduce the Value of an Investment in Our Stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which establishes the definition of a "penny stock," for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require: · that a broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks; and · the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: · obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and · make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Commission relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: · sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and · that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the "penny stock" rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 14 ITEM 