ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained herein as well as the information included in this Annual Report in evaluating our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, other than those we describe below, that are not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. You should refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Risks Relating to Our Business: We Have a History Of Losses Which May Continue, Which May Negatively Impact Our Ability to Achieve Our Business Objectives. We incurred net losses of $13,770,485 and $29,600,747 for the years ended January 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We cannot assure you that we can achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our operations are subject to the risks and competition inherent in the establishment of a business enterprise. There can be no assurance that future operations will be profitable. Revenues and profits, if any, will depend upon various factors, including whether we will be able to continue expansion of our revenue. We may not achieve our business objectives and the failure to achieve such goals would have an adverse impact on us. Our Independent Auditor Has Expressed Substantial Doubt About Our Ability to Continue As a Going Concern, Which May Hinder Our Ability to Obtain Future Financing. In their report dated April 7, 2009, our independent auditor stated that our financial statements for the year ended January 31, 2009 were prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is an issue raised as a result of recurring losses from operations. We continue to experience net operating losses. Our ability to continue as a going concern is subject to our ability to generate a profit and/or obtain necessary funding from outside sources, including obtaining additional funding from the sale of our securities, increasing sales or obtaining loans and grants from various financial institutions where possible. Our continued net operating losses increase the difficulty in meeting such goals and there can be no assurances that such methods will prove successful. 10 We Have a Limited Operating History and if We Are Not Successful in Continuing to Grow Our Business, Then We May Have to Scale Back or Even Cease Our Ongoing Business Operations. We have received a limited amount of revenues from operations and have limited assets. We have yet to generate positive earnings and there can be no assurance that we will ever operate profitably. We have a limited operating history. Our success is significantly dependent on a successful acquisition, drilling, completion and production program. Our operations will be subject to all the risks inherent in the establishment of a developing enterprise and the uncertainties arising from the absence of a significant operating history. We may be unable to locate recoverable reserves or operate on a profitable basis. We are in the exploration stage and potential investors should be aware of the difficulties normally encountered by enterprises in the exploration stage. If our business plan is not successful, and we are not able to operate profitably, investors may lose some or all of their investment. Because We Are Small and Do Not Have Much Capital, We May Have to Limit Our Exploration Activity Which May Result in a Loss of Your Investment. Because we are small and do not have much capital, we must limit our exploration activity. As such we may not be able to complete an exploration program that is as thorough as we would like. In that event, existing reserves may go undiscovered. Without finding reserves, we cannot generate revenues and you will lose your investment. If Our Partners Fail to Fund their Portion of Costs on the Windsor Block, We May Have to Curtail or Cease Exploration. Our current exploration program in the Windsor Block is dependent on our joint operating agreement partners funding their agreed portion of exploration costs. A partner could elect to not participate in the drilling or completion of future wells, which could hinder the timing and execution of the program and may significantly slow down or stop exploration. If We Do Not Secure Additional Funds or a New Partner on the Windsor Block, We May Have to Curtail or Cease Exploration. At January 31, 2009 we had $7,574,203 of working capital, which should be sufficient to complete our current exploration program consisting of the continued technical evaluation of the results of the five wells drilled to date on the Windsor Block, including executing new completions on the two uncompleted wells. However, if we are not successful in raising additional funds or securing a new joint operating partner, we will not be able to drill or complete wells on the Windsor Block in the future which would significantly slow down or stop exploration. 11 If We Are Unable to Retain the Services of Messrs. Gustafson and Anderson or If We Are Unable to Successfully Recruit Qualified Managerial and Field Personnel Having Experience in Oil and Gas Exploration, We May Not Be Able to Continue Our Operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of Mr. Mark Gustafson, our Chief Executive Officer and a director, and Mr. Howard Anderson, our President and Chief Operating Officer. Loss of the services of Messrs. Gustafson or Anderson could have a material adverse effect on our growth, revenues, and prospective business. In addition, in order to successfully implement and manage our business plan, we will be dependent upon, among other things, successfully recruiting qualified managerial and field personnel having experience in the oil and gas exploration business. Competition for qualified individuals is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to find, attract and retain existing employees or that we will be able to find, attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. As Most of Our Properties are in the Exploration Stage, There Can be No Assurance That We Will Establish Commercial Discoveries on Our Properties. Exploration for economic reserves of oil and gas is subject to a number of risk factors. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing oil and/or gas wells. Most of our properties are in the exploration stage only and we have only limited revenues from operations. While we do have a limited amount of proven reserves of gas, we may not establish commercial discoveries on any of our properties. Although our Estimated Natural Gas and Oil Reserve Data has been Prepared by an Independent Third Party, the Estimates may Prove to be Inaccurate. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of oil and natural gas reserves and the future cash flows attributed to such reserves. In general, estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and the future net cash flows therefrom are based upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as historical production from the properties, production rates, ultimate reserve recovery, timing and amount of capital expenditure, marketability of oil and gas, royalty rates, the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies and future operating costs, all of which may vary materially from actual results. For those reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves attributable to any particular group of properties, classification of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future net revenues associated with reserves prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may vary. Our actual production, revenues, taxes and development and operating expenditures with respect to our reserves will vary from estimates thereof and such variations could be material. The Potential Profitability of Oil and Gas Ventures Depends Upon Factors Beyond our Control. The potential profitability of oil and gas properties is dependent upon many factors beyond our control. For instance, world prices and markets for oil and gas are unpredictable, highly volatile, potentially subject to governmental fixing, pegging, controls, or any combination of these and other factors, and respond to changes in domestic, international, political, social, and economic environments. Additionally, due to worldwide economic uncertainty, the availability and cost of funds for production and other expenses have become increasingly difficult, if not impossible, to project. These changes and events may materially affect our financial performance. Adverse weather conditions can also hinder drilling operations. A productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well. In addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is impregnated with water or other deleterious substances. The marketability of oil and gas which may be acquired or discovered will be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the proximity and capacity of oil and gas pipelines and processing equipment, market fluctuations of prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, allowable production and environmental protection. These factors cannot be accurately predicted and the combination of these factors may result in us not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. The Oil And Gas Industry Is Highly Competitive And There Is No Assurance That We Will Be Successful In Acquiring and Continuing Leases/Permits. The oil and gas industry is intensely competitive. We compete with numerous individuals and companies, including many major oil and gas companies, which have substantially greater technical, financial and operational resources and staffs. Accordingly, there is a high degree of competition for desirable oil and gas leases, suitable properties for drilling operations and necessary drilling equipment, as well as for access to funds. We cannot predict whether the necessary funds can be raised or that any projected work will be completed. 12 The Marketability of Natural Resources Will be Affected by Numerous Factors Beyond Our Control Which May Result in Us not Receiving a Return on Invested Capital Sufficient to be Profitable or Viable. The marketability of natural resources which may be acquired or discovered by us will be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include market fluctuations in oil and gas pricing and demand, the proximity and capacity of natural resource markets and processing equipment, governmental regulations, land tenure, land use, regulation concerning the importing and exporting of oil and gas and environmental protection regulations. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination of these factors may result in us receiving a return on invested capital that is insufficient to be profitable or viable. Oil and Gas Operations are Subject to Comprehensive Regulation Which May Cause Substantial Delays or Require Capital Outlays in Excess of Those Anticipated Causing an Adverse Effect on Us. Oil and gas operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including laws regulating removal of natural resources from the ground and the discharge of materials into the environment. Oil and gas operations are also subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations which seek to maintain health and safety standards by regulating the design and use of drilling methods and equipment. Various permits from government bodies are required for drilling operations to be conducted; no assurance can be given that such permits will be received. Environmental standards imposed by federal, provincial, or local authorities may be changed and any such changes may have material adverse effects on our activities. Moreover, compliance with such laws may cause substantial delays or require capital outlays in excess of those anticipated, thus causing an adverse effect on us. Additionally, we may be subject to liability for pollution or other environmental damages. We generally maintain insurance coverage customary to the industry; however, we are not fully insured against all possible environmental risks. To date we have not been required to spend any material amount on compliance with environmental regulations. However, we may be required to do so in future and this may affect our ability to expand or maintain our operations. Due to the high salinity of our frac fluid that has flowed back from the Kennetcook #1 and #2 wells and that the Nova Scotia government has not set standards for this fluid disposal, we can provide no assurance that the estimated amounts in the financial statements will not be significantly higher. Exploration Activities are Subject to Certain Environmental Regulations Which May Prevent or Delay the Commencement or Continuance of Our Operations. In general, our exploration activities are subject to certain federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. Such laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material effect on our operations or financial condition to date. Specifically, we are subject to legislation regarding emissions into the environment, land disturbance, water discharges and storage and disposition of hazardous wastes. In addition, legislation has been enacted which requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities. However, such laws and regulations are frequently changed and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance. Generally, environmental requirements do not appear to affect us any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than other companies in the industry. With the introduction of the Kyoto Protocol, oil and gas producers may be required to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This could result in, among other things, increased operating and capital expenditures for those producers. This could also make certain production of crude oil or natural gas by those producers uneconomic, resulting in reductions in such production. We are unable to predict the effect on our future earnings of the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol by the Canadian Federal Government. However, in order to mitigate this risk, we are committed to maximizing shareholder value in an environmentally, socially responsible and safe manner. We believe that our operations comply, in all material respects, with all applicable environmental regulations. Our operating partners generally maintain insurance coverage customary to the industry; however, we are not fully insured against all possible environmental risks. 13 Exploratory Drilling Involves Many Risks and We May Become Liable for Pollution or Other Liabilities Which May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Financial Position. Drilling operations generally involve a high degree of risk. Hazards such as unusual or unexpected geological formations, power outages, labor disruptions, blow-outs, sour gas leakage, fire, inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labor, and other risks are involved. We may become subject to liability for pollution or hazards against which we cannot adequately insure or for which we may elect not to insure. Incurring any such liability may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operations. Any Change in Government Regulation and/or Administrative Practices May Have a Negative Impact on Our Ability to Operate and Our Profitability. The laws, regulations, policies or current administrative practices of any government body, organization or regulatory agency in the United States or any other jurisdiction, may be changed, applied or interpreted in a manner which will fundamentally alter our ability to carry on our business. The actions, policies or regulations, or changes thereto, of any government body or regulatory agency, or other special interest groups, may have a detrimental effect on us. Any or all of these situations may have a negative impact on our ability to operate and/or our profitably. Stakeholder Consultation and Approvals Are Required and, if Not Obtained, May Result in the Corporation's Inability to Obtain the Necessary Licenses and Permits. Each singular exploration and development, and each phase of exploration and development, are subject to participant involvement (stakeholder consultation and notification, including with aboriginal peoples) and regulation pursuant to a variety of laws and regulations in the areas in which Triangle does business. These regulations apply to the Corporation's business as they apply to other companies or enterprises in the energy industry. Stakeholder consultation and notification regulations impose, among other things, suggested and prescribed stakeholder consultation and notification and communication planning methodology, stakeholder audiences, minimum radii of personal contact and notification, communication quality and effectiveness, communication mediums, tools and content, contact timing, co-operation methodology and communication audit documentation. Participant involvement compliance can require significant expenditures and may involve considerable effort that may impact the timing of exploration, production and development activities. However, failure to comply with participant involvement legislation may result in the Corporation's inability to obtain the necessary licenses and permits required to carry out the Corporation's exploration and development programs. At the same time, even though the Corporation routinely conducts effective participant involvement programs that meet or exceed regulatory requirements, there can be no assurance that Triangle will be able to obtain all of the necessary licenses and permits required for its exploration and development programs. No Assurance Can Be Given That Defects in Our Title to Natural Gas and Oil Interests Do Not Exist. Title to natural gas and oil interests is often not possible to determine without incurring substantial expense. An independent title review was completed with respect to certain of the more valuable natural gas and oil rights we acquired and the interests in natural gas and oil rights we own. Also, legal opinions have been obtained with respect to the spacing units for the wells which have been drilled to date and which we have operated. However, no assurance can be given that title defects do not exist. If a title defect does exist, it is possible that we may lose all or a portion of the properties to which the title defect relates. Our actual interest in certain properties may therefore vary from our records. 14 Risks Relating to Our Common Stock: If We Fail to Remain Current in Our Reporting Requirements, We Could be Removed From the OTC Bulletin Board and/or the TSX Venture Exchange Which Would Limit the Ability of Broker-Dealers to Sell Our Securities and the Ability of Stockholders to Sell Their Securities in the Secondary Market. Companies trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, such as us, must be reporting issuers under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and must be current in their reports under Section 13, in order to maintain price quotation privileges on the OTC Bulletin Board. We are also listed on the TSX Venture Exchange. In order to remain listed on the TSX Venture Exchange, we must remain a reporting issuer in good standing in each jurisdiction in which we are a reporting issuer. We are a reporting issuer in each of British Columbia, Alberta and Ontario and have continuous disclosure obligations under securities laws and regulations in those jurisdictions (arising primarily under National Instrument 51-102). If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements, we could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board and/or the TSX Venture Exchange. As a result, the market liquidity for our securities could be severely adversely affected by limiting the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. Our Officers, Directors and Principal Shareholders own a Controlling Interest in our Voting Stock and Investors Will Not Have Any Voice in Our Management. Our officers, directors and principal shareholders, in the aggregate, beneficially own or control the votes of approximately 49.7% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together or in conjunction with other stockholders, will have the ability to control substantially all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including: • election of our board of directors; • removal of any of our directors; • amendment of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; and • adoption of measures that could delay or prevent a change in control or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us. As a result of their ownership and positions, our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders collectively are able to influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, sales of significant amounts of shares held by our directors, executive officers or principal shareholders, or the prospect of these sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The large blocks of stock ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. Our Common Stock is Subject to the "Penny Stock" Rules of the SEC and the Trading Market in Our Securities is Limited, Which Makes Transactions in Our Stock Cumbersome and May Reduce the Value of an Investment in Our Stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which establishes the definition of a "penny stock," for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require: · that a broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks; and · the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: 15 · obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and · make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Commission relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: · sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and · that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the "penny stock" rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 