ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this annual report in evaluating our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, other than those we describe below, that are not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. You should also refer to the other information contained in this annual report, including the Forward-Looking Statements section in Item 1, our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a further discussion of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our business. Except where the context otherwise indicates, references below to “we,” “our,” “ours,” and “us” includes our subsidiaries, including our interest in Caliber. The risks described below relating to oil and natural gas exploration, exploitation and development activities affect TUSA directly but also affect RockPile and Caliber because the materialization of those risks, whether experienced by TUSA or other customers or potential customers of RockPile or Caliber, may adversely affect demand for the products and services provided by RockPile and Caliber. Risks Relating to Our Business Oil and natural gas prices are volatile and change for reasons that are beyond our control. Decreases in the price we receive for our production adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Declines in the prices we receive for our production adversely affect many aspects of our business, including our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, liquidity, rate of growth and the carrying value of our properties, all of which depend primarily or in part upon those prices. Declines in the prices we receive for our production also adversely affect our ability to finance capital expenditures, make acquisitions, raise capital and satisfy our financial obligations. In addition, declines in prices reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and, as a result, adversely affect our quantities of proved reserves. Among other things, a reduction in our reserves can limit the capital available to us, as the maximum amount of available borrowing under our revolving credit facility is, and the availability of other sources of capital likely will be, based to a significant degree on the estimated quantities of those reserves. Declines in prices would also reduce the demand for services provided by RockPile and Caliber, adversely affecting their revenue and profitability. Oil and natural gas are commodities and their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Prices have historically been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. The prices of oil and natural gas are affected by a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas, domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes, the level of global oil and natural gas exploration activity and inventories, the price, availability and consumer acceptance of alternative fuel sources, the availability of refining capacity, technological advances affecting energy consumption, weather conditions, speculative activity, financial and commercial market uncertainty and worldwide economic conditions In addition to factors affecting the price of oil and natural gas generally, the prices we receive for our production are affected by factors specific to us and to the local markets where the production occurs. Pricing can be influenced by, among other things, local or regional supply and demand factors (such as refinery or pipeline capacity issues, trade restrictions and governmental regulations) and the terms of our sales contracts. The prices that we receive for our production are often at a discount to the relevant benchmark prices on NYMEX. A negative difference between the benchmark price and the price received is called a differential. The differential may vary significantly due to market conditions, the quality and location of production and other factors. Due to increasing production from the Williston Basin in recent years and limits to the available takeaway capacity and related infrastructure, the differential applicable to oil produced there has been significant. We cannot accurately predict future differentials, and increases in differentials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, the difficulty involved in predicting the differential also makes it more difficult for us to effectively hedge our production. We have a history of losses which may continue and negatively impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. We incurred net losses attributable to common stockholders of $13.8 million and $24.3 million for the fiscal 21 Table of Contents years ended January 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. We cannot assure you that we can achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our operations are subject to the risks and competition inherent in the oil and natural gas industry. We cannot assure you that future operations will be profitable. Revenues and profits, if any, will depend upon various factors, including whether we will be able to expand our revenues. We may not achieve our business objectives, and the failure to achieve such goals would have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and result of operations. Oil and natural gas exploration, exploitation and development activities may not be successful and could result in a complete loss of a significant investment. Exploration, exploitation and development activities are subject to many risks. For example, new wells we drill may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in such wells. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or natural gas is present or that it can be produced economically. In addition, a productive well may become commercially unproductive in the event that water or other deleterious substances are encountered which impair or prevent the commercial production of oil and/or natural gas from the well. Similarly, decline rates from a productive well may exceed our estimates and may cause the well to become uneconomic. We engage in exploratory drilling, which increases these risks. Drilling for oil and natural gas often involves unprofitable efforts not only from dry holes, but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient oil or natural gas to return a profit at then realized prices after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. Cost-related risks are exacerbated in the Williston Basin because the drilling and completion of a well there generally costs significantly more than a typical onshore conventional well. Further, our exploration, exploitation and development activities may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including: · title problems; · problems in delivery of our oil and natural gas to market; · pressure or irregularities in geological formations; · equipment failures or accidents; · adverse weather conditions; · reductions in oil and natural gas prices; · compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements, including with respect to permitting issues; and · costs of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, equipment, qualified personnel and services. We expect that all of the wells we drill in fiscal year 2014 will be drilled horizontally and will be hydraulically fractured. When drilling horizontal wells, the risks we face include, but are not limited to, failing to place our well bore in the desired target producing zone, not staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation, failing to run casing the entire length of the well bore and not being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal well bore. Risks we face while completing such wells include, but are not limited to, not being able to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages, failing to run tools the entire length of the well bore during completion operations, and not successfully cleaning out the well bore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. Because of the cost typically associated with this type of well, unsuccessful exploration or development activity affecting even a small number of these wells could have a significant impact on our results of operations. Our planned operations will require additional capital that may not be available. Our business is capital intensive and requires substantial expenditures to maintain currently producing wells, to make the acquisitions and/or conduct the exploration, exploitation and development activities necessary to replace our reserves, and to pay expenses and to satisfy our other obligations. Cash flow from operations has not to date been a material source of liquidity for us, which makes us dependent on external financing . In addition, our existing asset base is small compared to many of our public company competitors, which may make financing more difficult. We anticipate that we will continue to make substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves in the future and for future drilling programs. We cannot assure you that our cash flows from operations and other available sources of financing will be adequate for us to implement our capital plans and to satisfy our debt-related and other obligations. Debt or equity financing may not be available in a timely manner, on terms acceptable to us or at all. Moreover, future activities may require us to alter our capitalization significantly. Our inability to access sufficient capital for our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and 22 Table of Contents prospects. Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or the relevant underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantity and present value of our reserves. The reserve data included in this report represent estimates only. Estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves is a complex process. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various estimates, including estimates based upon assumptions relating to economic factors, such as future commodity prices, production costs, severance and excise taxes and availability of capital, estimates of required capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs, and the assumed effect of governmental regulation. The assumptions underlying our estimates of our proved reserves could prove to be inaccurate, and any significant inaccuracy could materially affect, among other things, future estimates of our reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to our properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of our future net cash flows. At January 31, 2013, approximately 59% of our estimated net remaining proved reserves (Mboe) were proved undeveloped (“PUD”). Estimation of PUD reserves is almost always based on analogy to existing wells as contrasted with the performance data used to estimate producing reserves. Recovery of PUD reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Additionally, SEC rules require that, subject to limited exceptions, PUD reserves may only be recorded if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years after the date of booking. This rule has limited and may continue to limit our potential to record additional PUD reserves as we pursue our drilling program. Moreover, we may be required to write-down our PUDs if we do not drill those wells within the required five-year time frame. Our PUD reserve estimates as of January 31, 2013 reflected our plans to make significant capital expenditures to convert our PUDs into proved developed reserves, including currently estimated expenditures of approximately $196 million during the five years ending on January 31, 2018. You should be aware that the estimated development costs may not be accurate, development may not occur as scheduled and results may not be as estimated. If we choose not to develop PUDs, or if we are not otherwise able to successfully develop them, we will be required to remove the associated volumes from our reported proved reserves. You should not assume that the present values referred to in this report represent the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. The timing and success of the production and the expenses related to the development of oil and natural gas properties, each of which is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, will affect the timing and amount of actual future net cash flows from our proved reserves and their present value. In addition, our PV-10 estimates are based on assumed future prices and costs. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the assumed prices and costs. Further, the effect of derivative instruments is not reflected in these assumed prices. Also, the use of a 10% discount factor to calculate PV-10 may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor given actual interest rates and risks to which our business or the oil and natural gas industry in general are subject. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, that can adversely affect the cost, manner and feasibility of doing business and limit our growth. Our operations and facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to exploration for, and the exploitation, development, production and transportation of, oil and natural gas, as well as environmental, safety and other matters. Existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations, may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Laws and regulations applicable to us include those relating to: · land use restrictions; · drilling bonds and other financial responsibility requirements; · spacing of wells; · emissions into the air; · unitization and pooling of properties; · habitat and endangered species protection, reclamation and remediation; · the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oil field waste and other waste materials; · the use of underground storage tanks; · transportation and drilling permits; 23 Table of Contents · the use of underground injection wells, which affects the disposal of water from our wells; · safety precautions; · hydraulic fracturing (including limitations on the use of this technology); · the prevention of oil spills; · the closure of production facilities; · operational reporting; and · taxation and royalties. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for: · personal injuries; · property and natural resource damages; · releases or discharges of hazardous materials; · well reclamation costs; · oil spill clean-up costs; · other remediation and clean-up costs; · plugging and abandonment costs; · governmental sanctions, such as fines and penalties; and · other environmental damages. These regulations have been changed frequently in the past and, in general, these changes have imposed more stringent requirements that increase operating costs and/or require capital expenditures to remain in compliance. For example, North Dakota, a state in which we conduct operations, recently amended its regulations to require additional pollution control equipment at well sites and enhanced emergency response procedures in addition to other measures designed to reduce potential environmental impacts of drilling activities. Any noncompliance with these laws and regulations could subject us to material administrative, civil or criminal penalties or other liabilities, including suspension or termination of operations. Some environmental laws and regulations impose strict liability. Strict liability means that in some situations we could be exposed to liability for clean-up costs and other damages as a result of conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or for the conduct of prior operators of properties we have acquired or other third-parties, including, in some circumstances, operators of properties in which we have an interest and parties that provide transportation services for us. Similarly, some environmental laws and regulations impose joint and several liability, meaning that we could be held responsible for more than our share of a particular reclamation or other obligation, and potentially the entire obligation, where other parties were involved in the activity giving rise to the liability. In addition, we may be required to make large and unanticipated capital expenditures to comply with applicable laws and regulations, for example by installing and maintaining pollution control devices. In addition, our plugging and abandonment obligations will be substantial and may be more than our estimates. Our operations could also be adversely affected by environmental and other laws and regulations that require us to obtain permits before commencing drilling or other activities. Even when permits are granted, they may be subject to conditions which impose delays on a project, increase its costs or reduce its benefits to us. In addition, any changes in applicable laws, regulations and/or administrative policies or practices may have a negative impact on our ability to operate and on our profitability. The laws, regulations, policies or current administrative practices of any government body, organization or regulatory agency in the United States or any other jurisdiction in which we operate may be changed, applied or interpreted in a manner that could fundamentally alter our ability to carry on our business or otherwise adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. Caliber’s operations may be subject to additional regulatory risks. For example, its pipelines may in the future be subject to siting, public necessity, rate and service regulations by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) or various state regulatory bodies, depending upon jurisdiction. FERC generally regulates the transportation of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil in interstate commerce. FERC’s actions in any of these areas or modifications of its current regulations could adversely impact Caliber’s ability to compete for business, the costs it incurs in its operations, the construction of new facilities or its ability to recover the full cost of operating its pipelines. Other laws and actions by federal and state regulatory authorities could have similar effects on Caliber’s operations. 24 Table of Contents Acquisitions may prove to be unprofitable because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our recent growth is due in large part to acquisitions of undeveloped leasehold and the drilling and completion of wells that were productive. We expect acquisitions will also contribute to our future growth. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs, title issues and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In addition, many of these factors are subject to change and are beyond our control. In particular, the prices of and markets for oil and natural gas products may change from those anticipated at the time of making such assessment. In connection with our assessment of a potential acquisition, we perform a review of the acquired properties that we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems, and generally does not involve a review of seismic data or independent environmental testing. In addition, our review may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their capabilities and deficiencies, including any structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise. As a result, we may assume unknown liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a limited operating history. We have a limited operating history conducting oil and natural gas exploration and production activities. The history of RockPile and Caliber are more limited, as both of those entities began conducting operations in fiscal year 2013. Each of these businesses will be subject to all the risks inherent in the establishment of a developing enterprise and the uncertainties arising from the absence of a significant operating history. We may be unable to operate on a profitable basis. We are in the early stage of our development plan, and potential investors should be aware of the difficulties normally encountered by enterprises in this stage. If our business plan is not successful and we are not able to operate profitably, investors may lose some or all of their investment. The results of our planned drilling in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations, each an emerging play with limited drilling and production history, are subject to more uncertainties than drilling programs in more established formations and may not meet our expectations for production. Part of our drilling strategy to maximize recoveries from the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations involves the drilling of horizontal wells using completion techniques that have proven to be successful for other companies in these and other shale formations. Our experience with horizontal drilling in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations, as well as the industry’s drilling and production history in these formations is limited. The ultimate success of these drilling and completion strategies and techniques in these formations will be better evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and longer-term production profiles are established. In addition, the decline rates in these formations may be higher than in other areas and in other shale formations, making overall production difficult to estimate until our experience in these formations increases. Accordingly, the results of our future drilling in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations are more uncertain than drilling results in some other shale formations with established reserves and longer production histories. Further, access to adequate gathering systems or pipeline takeaway capacity and the availability of drilling rigs and other services may be more challenging in new or emerging plays. If our drilling results are less favorable than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, access to gathering systems and takeaway capacity or otherwise, and/or oil and natural gas prices decline, the return on our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as we anticipate, and we could incur material write-downs of properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future. The lack of availability or high cost of drilling rigs, fracture stimulation crews, equipment, supplies, insurance, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, fracture stimulation crews, equipment, supplies, key infrastructure, insurance or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified crews rise as the number of active rigs and completion fleets in service increases. If increasing levels of exploration and production result in response to strong commodity prices, the demand for oilfield services will likely rise, and the costs of these services will likely increase, while the quality of these services may suffer. 25 Table of Contents Increased activity in the Williston Basin has resulted in increases in the cost of these products and services. Such cost increases adversely affect the results of our exploration and production business. We rely on independent experts and technical or operational service providers over whom we may have limited control. We use independent contractors to provide us with technical assistance and services. We rely upon the owners and operators of rigs and drilling equipment, and upon providers of oilfield services, to drill and develop certain of our prospects to production. In addition, we rely upon the services of other third-parties to explore or analyze our prospects to determine a method in which the prospects may be developed in a cost-effective manner. Our limited control over the activities and business practices of these operators and service providers, any inability on our part to maintain satisfactory commercial relationships with them or their failure to provide quality services could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our agreements with operators and other joint venture partners as well as other operational agreements that we may enter into, present a number of challenges that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our agreements with well operators and other joint venture partners, as well as other operational agreements (including agreements with mineral rights owners and suppliers of services, equipment and product transportation), represent a significant portion of our business. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we plan to enter into other similar transactions, some of which may be material. These transactions typically involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including the existence of unknown potential disputes, liabilities or contingencies that arise after entering into these arrangements related to the counterparties to such arrangements. We could experience financial or other setbacks if we encounter unanticipated problems in connection with such transactions, including problems related to execution or integration. Any of these risks could reduce our revenues or increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. No assurance can be given that defects in our title to oil and natural gas interests do not exist. It is often not possible to determine title to an oil and natural gas interest without incurring substantial expense. The title review processes we have conducted with respect to certain interests we have acquired may not have been sufficient to detect all potential defects, and we have not conducted such a process with respect to all our properties. If a title defect does exist, it is possible that we may lose all or a portion of our interest in the properties to which the title defect relates. Our actual interest in certain properties may therefore vary from our records. We may have difficulty managing growth in our business, which could adversely affect our business plan, financial condition and results of operations. Growth in accordance with our business plan, if achieved, will place a significant strain on our financial, accounting, technical, operational and management resources. As we expand our activities and increase the number of projects we are evaluating or in which we participate, there will be additional demands on these resources. The failure to continue to upgrade our technical, administrative, operating and financial control systems or the occurrence of unexpected expansion difficulties, including the failure to recruit and retain experienced managers, geologists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to timely execute our business plan. Most of our net leasehold acreage is undeveloped, and that acreage may not ultimately be developed or become commercially productive, which could have a material adverse effect on our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our future cash flow and income. Most of our net leasehold acreage is undeveloped acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas. In addition, many of our oil and natural gas leases require us to drill wells that are commercially productive within specified periods of time, and if we are unsuccessful in drilling such wells, we could lose our rights under such leases. We intend to develop our leasehold acreage by implementing our exploration and development plan, but the funds needed to do so may not be available and our exploration and development activities may be unsuccessful. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our future cash flow and income, are highly dependent on our success in developing our undeveloped leasehold acreage. 26 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully acquire additional leasehold interests or other oil and natural gas properties, which may inhibit our ability to grow our production. Acquisitions of leasehold interests or other oil and natural gas properties have been an important element of our business, and we will continue to pursue acquisitions in the future. In recent years, we have pursued and consummated leasehold or other property acquisitions that have provided us opportunities to expand our acreage position and grow our production. Although we regularly engage in discussions and submit proposals regarding leasehold interests or other oil and natural gas properties, suitable acquisitions may not be available in the future on reasonable terms. Our method of accounting for investments in oil and natural gas properties may result in impairments. We follow the full cost method of accounting for oil and natural gas properties. Accordingly, all costs associated with the acquisition, exploration and development of oil and natural gas properties, including costs of undeveloped leasehold, geological and geophysical expenses, dry holes, leasehold equipment and other costs directly related to acquisition, exploration and development activities, are capitalized. Capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties also include estimated asset retirement costs recorded based on the fair value of the asset retirement obligation when incurred. The capitalized costs plus future development and dismantlement costs are depleted and charged to operations using the equivalent unit-of-production method based on proved oil and natural gas reserves as determined annually by our independent petroleum engineers (or by an experienced petroleum engineer on our staff and audited by an independent petroleum engineering firm) and determined in the interim quarterly periods by an experienced petroleum engineer on our staff. To the extent that such capitalized costs, net of their accumulated depreciation and amortization, exceed the sum of (i) the present value (discounting at 10% per annum) of estimated future net revenues from proved oil and natural gas reserves and (ii) the capitalized costs of unevaluated properties (both adjusted for income tax effects), such excess costs are charged to operations, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We recognized such impairment expense in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012. Once incurred, such a write-down of oil and natural gas properties is not reversible at a later date, even if oil or natural gas prices substantially increase or if estimated proved reserves substantially increase. We cannot control the activities on the properties we do not operate and are unable to ensure their proper operation and profitability. Other companies operated properties representing approximately 31% of our production in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013. We have limited ability to exercise influence over, or control the risks associated with, operations of our non-operated properties. The failure of an operator of our non-operated wells to adequately perform operations, an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements or an operator’s failure to act in our best interests could reduce our production and revenues. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator’s expertise and financial resources, inclusion of other participants in drilling wells and use of technology. In addition, we could be adversely affected by our lack of control over the timing and amount of capital expenditures related to non-operated properties. Our lack of diversification will increase the risk of an investment in us. Our current business focus is on the oil and natural gas industry in a limited number of properties in North Dakota and Montana. RockPile and Caliber also focus on the Williston Basin areas of those states. Larger companies have the ability to manage their risk by diversification. However, we currently lack diversification in terms of the geographic scope of our business. As a result, we will likely be impacted more acutely by factors affecting our industry or the regions in which we operate, such as the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations, than we would if our business were more diversified, and this increases our risk profile. We face strong competition from other companies. We encounter competition from other companies involved in the oil and natural gas industry in all areas of our operations, including the acquisition of exploratory prospects and proven properties. Our competitors include major integrated oil and natural gas companies, numerous independent oil and natural gas companies and individuals. Many of our competitors have been engaged in the oil and natural gas business much longer than we have and possess substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than we do. These companies may be able to pay more for exploratory projects and productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human 27 Table of Contents resources permit. In addition, these companies may be able to expend greater resources on the existing and changing technologies that we believe are and will be increasingly important to attaining success in the industry, particularly in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations on which we focus. Such competitors may also be in a better position to secure oilfield services and equipment on a timely basis or on more favorable terms. We may not be able to conduct our operations, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions successfully in this highly competitive environment, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Similarly, the market for RockPile’s services and products is characterized by continual technological developments to provide better and more reliable performance and services. If they are not able to design, develop, and produce commercially competitive products and to implement commercially competitive services in a timely manner in response to changes in technology, their business could be materially and adversely affected. The sale of our oil and natural gas production depends in part on gathering, transportation and processing facilities. Any limitation in the availability of, or our access to, those facilities would interfere with our ability to market the oil and natural gas that we produce and could adversely impact our drilling program, cash flows and results of operations. We deliver oil and natural gas that may ultimately flow through gathering, processing and pipeline systems that we do not own. The amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce and sell is subject to the accessibility, availability, proximity and capacity of these gathering, processing and pipeline systems. In particular, natural gas produced from the Bakken Shale has a high Btu content that requires natural gas processing to remove the natural gas liquids before it can be redelivered into transmission pipelines. Industry-wide in the Williston Basin, there is currently a shortage of natural gas gathering and processing capacity. Such shortage has limited our ability to sell our natural gas production. As a result, the majority of our natural gas from the Williston Basin wells to date has been flared. The lack of available capacity in any of the gathering, processing and pipeline systems we use could result in our inability to realize the full economic potential of our production or in a reduction of the price offered for our production. Additionally, if we were prohibited from flaring natural gas due to environmental or other regulations, then we would be forced to shut-in producing wells, which would also adversely impact our drilling program. Any significant change in market factors or other conditions affecting these infrastructure systems and facilities, as well as any delays in constructing new infrastructure systems and facilities or any changes in regulatory requirements affecting flaring activities, could harm our business and, in turn, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, weather conditions or natural disasters, actions by companies doing business in one or more of the areas in which we operate or labor disputes may impair the distribution of oil and/or natural gas and in turn diminish our financial condition or ability to conduct our operations. A U.S. or global economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Any or all of the following may occur if a crisis arises in the global financial and securities markets and an economic downturn results: · The economic slowdown could lead to lower demand for oil and natural gas by individuals and industries, which in turn has resulted and could continue to result in lower oil and natural gas prices. · The lenders under our revolving credit facility may become more restrictive in their lending practices or unable or unwilling to fund their commitments, which would limit our access to capital to fund our capital expenditures and operations. This would limit our ability to generate revenues as well as limit our projected production and reserves growth. · We may be unable to obtain additional debt or equity financing, which would require us to limit our capital expenditures and other spending. Financing costs may significantly increase as lenders may be reluctant to lend without receiving higher fees and spreads. · The losses incurred by financial institutions as well as the insolvency of some financial institutions heightens the risk that a counterparty to our hedge arrangements could default on its obligations. These losses and the possibility of a counterparty declaring bankruptcy or being placed in conservatorship or receivership may affect the ability of the counterparties to meet their obligations to us on hedge transactions, which could reduce our revenues from hedges at a time when we are also receiving a lower 28 Table of Contents price for our natural gas and oil sales. As a result, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. · TUSA’s credit facility requires the lenders to re-determine our borrowing base periodically. The re-determinations are based on our proved reserves based on price assumptions that our lenders require us to use to calculate reserves pursuant to the credit facility. The lenders could reduce their price assumptions used to determine reserves for calculating our borrowing base due to lower commodities and futures prices, which could result in the reduction of our borrowing base and funds available to borrow. · Bankruptcies of purchasers of our oil and natural gas could lead to the delay or failure of us to receive the revenues from those sales. · A generally reduced availability of capital would likely lead to a decreased demand for the services provided by RockPile and Caliber. Seasonal weather conditions and other factors could adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities. Our operations could be adversely affected by weather conditions. In the Williston Basin, drilling and other oil and natural gas activities cannot be conducted as effectively during the winter months. Severe weather conditions limit and may temporarily halt the ability to operate during such conditions. Wet weather and spring thaw may make the ground unstable. Consequently, municipalities and state transportation departments enforce road bans that restrict the movement of rigs and other heavy equipment during certain periods, thereby reducing activity levels. Similarly, any drought or other condition resulting in a shortage or the unavailability of adequate supplies of water would impair our ability to conduct hydraulic fracturing operations. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay or temporarily halt our oil and natural gas operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to retain or recruit qualified managerial, operations and field personnel, we may not be able to continue our operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of our directors and officers and that of key managerial, operational, land, finance and accounting staff. In order to successfully implement and manage our business plan, we will be dependent upon, among other things, successfully recruiting qualified managerial and field personnel having experience in the required aspects of our business. Competition for qualified individuals is intense. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain existing employees or that we will be able to find, attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. Hydraulic fracturing has recently come under increased scrutiny and could be the subject of further regulation that could impact the timing and cost of development. Hydraulic fracturing is the primary production method used in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations. Hydraulic fracturing is a process that creates a fracture extending from the well bore in a rock formation that enables oil or natural gas to move more easily through the rock pores to a production well. Fractures typically are created through the injection of water and chemicals into the rock formation. Several federal entities, including the EPA, have recently asserted potential regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing, and the EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities, with the results of the study anticipated to be available for review in 2014. Moreover, the EPA also is studying the potential impact of wastewater derived from hydraulic fracturing activities and by 2014 plans to propose standards that such wastewater must meet before being transported to a treatment plant. In addition, Congress has considered, and may in the future consider, legislation that would amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to encompass hydraulic fracturing activities. The proposed legislation would have required hydraulic fracturing operations to meet permitting and financial assurance requirements, adhere to certain construction specifications, fulfill monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping obligations, including disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, and meet plugging and abandonment requirements. Some states already have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, requirements that could restrict or impose additional requirements relating to hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances. For example, North Dakota requires disclosure of information concerning the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing fluids and imposes certain well construction and testing requirements. In 2011, Montana enacted regulations requiring operators to disclose information about hydraulic fracturing fluids on a well-by-well basis. In addition, operators must generally obtain approval from the state before hydraulic fracturing occurs and submit a report after the work is performed. Montana also requires specific construction and testing requirements for wells that will be hydraulically fractured. In some 29 Table of Contents areas, municipalities and other local governmental bodies have also purported to regulate, and in some cases prohibit, hydraulic fracturing activities. In addition, Nova Scotia currently has in place a moratorium on hydraulic fracturing. Depending on the legislation or regulations that ultimately may be adopted, exploration and production activities that employ hydraulic fracturing could be subject to additional regulation and permitting requirements. Individually or collectively, such new legislation or regulation could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional burdens that could increase the costs and delay or curtail the development of unconventional oil and natural gas resources from shale formations that are not commercially viable without the use of hydraulic fracturing. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1. Business Overview — Environmental Laws and Regulations for further discussion of applicable environmental laws. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. The U.S. President’s Fiscal Year 2014 Budget Proposal includes provisions that, if enacted into law, would eliminate certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas wells, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of this legislation or any similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could increase the cost of exploration and development of natural gas and oil resources. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas we produce while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for, or responding to, those effects. The EPA has issued a notice of finding and determination that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases (“GHGs”) present an endangerment to human health and the environment, which allows EPA to begin regulating GHG emissions under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. EPA has begun to implement GHG-related reporting and permitting rules. Similarly, the U.S. Congress has considered and may in the future consider “cap and trade” legislation that would establish an economy-wide cap on GHG emissions in the United States and would require most sources of GHG emissions to obtain GHG emission “allowances” corresponding to their annual emissions of GHGs. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of GHGs would likely require us to incur increased operating costs and could have an adverse effect on demand for our production. Canada, where we also hold oil and natural gas leases, is also implementing laws concerning GHG emissions. These or future federal, state, regional or international monitoring or regulatory requirements relating to climate change could require us to obtain permits or allowances for our GHG emissions, install new pollution controls, increase our operational costs, limit our operations or adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. See Item 1. Business Overview — Environmental Laws and Regulations — Air Emissions and Climate Change for further discussion. Many scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our exploration and production operations. Significant physical effects of climate change could also have an indirect effect on our financing and operations by disrupting services or infrastructure provided to us by other parties. We may not be able to recover through insurance some or any of the damages, losses or costs that may result from potential physical effects of climate change and as a result, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be negatively impacted by cybersecurity risks and other disruptions. As an oil and natural gas producer, we face various security threats, including possible attempts by third parties to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information, or to render data or systems unusable, through unauthorized computer access; threats to the safety of our employees; and threats to the security of our infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines. There can be no assurance that the procedures 30 Table of Contents and controls we use to monitor these threats and mitigate our exposure to them will be sufficient in preventing them from materializing. If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure, personnel or capabilities essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Aboriginal claims could have an adverse effect on us and our operations. Aboriginal peoples have claimed aboriginal title and rights to portions of Montana where we operate. We are not aware that any claims have been made in respect to our property or assets. However, if a claim arose and was successful, it could have an adverse effect on us and our business operations, financial conditions or prospects. We do not insure against all potential operating risk. We might incur substantial losses from, and be subject to substantial liability claims for, uninsured or underinsured risks related to our operations. Our operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the operation and development of oil and natural gas properties, the drilling of oil and natural gas wells, hydraulic fracturing and the provision of related services including: · environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other substances into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; · abnormally pressured formations; · mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling and service tools and casing collapse; · fires and explosions; · personal injuries and death; · regulatory investigations and penalties; · well blowouts; · pipeline failures and ruptures; · casing collapse; · mechanical and operational problems that affect production; and · natural disasters. We do not maintain insurance against all such risks. We generally elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Constraints in the supply of, prices for, and availability of transportation of raw materials can have a material adverse effect on RockPile’s business. High levels of demand for, or a shortage of, raw materials used in hydraulic fracturing operations, such as proppants, can trigger constraints in RockPile’s supply chain of those raw materials, particularly where it has a relationship with a single supplier for a particular resource. Many of the raw materials essential to its business require the use of rail, storage, and trucking services to transport the materials to its jobsites. These services, particularly during times of high demand, may cause delays in the arrival of or otherwise constrain its supply of raw materials. These constraints could have a material adverse effect on RockPile’s business. In addition, price increases imposed by its vendors for such raw materials and the inability to pass these increases through to its customers could have a material adverse effect on its business. Our other operations may be similarly adversely affected by shortages of these raw materials. Growing Caliber’s business by constructing new pipelines and other infrastructure subjects it to construction risks and will require it to obtain rights of way at a reasonable cost. Such projects may not be profitable if costs are higher, or demand is less, than expected. One of the ways we intend to grow Caliber’s business is through the construction of pipelines, treatment/processing facilities and other midstream infrastructure. The construction of this infrastructure will require significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our expectations, and will involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, and stringent, lengthy and occasionally unreasonable or impractical federal, state and local permitting, consent, or authorization requirements. As a result, new infrastructure may not be constructed as scheduled or as originally designed, which may require redesign and additional equipment, relocations of facilities or rerouting of pipelines, which in turn could subject Caliber to additional capital costs, 31 Table of Contents additional expenses or penalties and may adversely affect Caliber’s operations. In addition, the coordination and monitoring of these projects requires skilled and experienced labor. Agreements with Caliber’s producer customers may contain substantial financial penalties and/or give the producers the right to repurchase certain assets and terminate their contracts if construction deadlines are not achieved. Moreover, Caliber’s revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if Caliber builds a new pipeline, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, and Caliber may not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project, if at all. In addition, the construction of pipelines and other infrastructure may require Caliber to obtain rights-of-way or other property rights prior to construction. Caliber may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way or other property rights at a reasonable cost. If the cost of obtaining new or renewing rights-of-way or other property rights increases, it would adversely affect Caliber’s operations. Furthermore, Caliber may have limited or no commitments from customers relating to infrastructure projects prior to their construction. If Caliber constructs facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production or satisfy anticipated market demand that does not materialize, the facilities may not operate as planned or may not be used at all. Caliber may rely on estimates of proved reserves in deciding to construct new pipelines and facilities, and these estimates may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. As a result, new infrastructure projects may be unprofitable. The holder of our Convertible Note has significant influence on our major corporate decisions, including control over some matters that require stockholder approval, and could take actions that could be adverse to stockholders. In connection with the issuance and sale in July 2012 of our Convertible Note with an initial principal amount of $120.0 million, we entered into an Investment Agreement with NGP Triangle Holdings, LLC (“NGP”) and its parent company. Pursuant to the Investment Agreement, NGP is entitled to designate one director to our board of directors until the occurrence of a “Termination Event” (as defined in the Investment Agreement). The Investment Agreement further provides that, for so long as at least 50% of the original principal amount is outstanding and held by NGP, we will not take certain actions without the prior written consent of NGP. In addition, pursuant to the Convertible Note, for so long as at least 50% of the original principal amount is outstanding and held by NGP, we have agreed to (i) obtain the prior written consent of NGP before submitting certain resolutions or matters to a vote of the stockholders, or (ii) require the approval of stockholders as would be required to approve such resolution or matter if the then-outstanding Convertible Note held by NGP had been converted into shares of common stock immediately prior to the record date for such meeting of stockholders and NGP had voted all of such shares of common stock against such resolution or matter. The Convertible Note is convertible into shares of common stock at an initial conversion price of $8.00 per share, which, based on the initial principal amount, would allow the Convertible Note to be converted into 15,000,000 shares of common stock plus any shares issuable upon the conversion of accrued interest. In March 2013, the Company sold to two affiliates of NGP 9,300,000 shares of common stock of the Company in a private placement. In connection with the private placement, we entered into an amendment to the Investment Agreement to modify the definition of “Termination Event,” thereby strengthening NGP’s board seat designation right. If NGP were to fully convert the Convertible Note on the date of this report, then NGP and its affiliates would hold approximately 34% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result of the foregoing, NGP has significant influence over us, our management, our policies and, under both the Investment Agreement, as amended, and following conversion of the Convertible Note as a significant stockholder, certain matters requiring stockholder approval. The interests of NGP, including in its capacity as a creditor, may differ from the interests of the Company’s stockholders, and the ability of NGP to influence certain of our major corporate decisions may harm the market price of our common stock by delaying, deferring or preventing transactions that are in the best interest of all stockholders or discouraging third-party investors. The cost of servicing our debt could adversely affect our business. In addition, our debt agreements have substantial restrictions and financial covenants that could adversely affect our business. We have outstanding indebtedness under TUSA’s and RockPile’s credit facilities. A significant portion of our cash flows will be required to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness, and we may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or have future borrowing capacity available, to enable us to repay our indebtedness or to 32 Table of Contents fund other liquidity needs. Our ability to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness and to satisfy our other obligations will depend upon our future operating performance and financial condition and the availability of refinancing indebtedness, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our revolving credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. A substantial decrease in our operating cash flows or an increase in our expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and could require us to modify our operations, including by curtailing our exploration and drilling programs, selling assets, refinancing all or a portion of our existing debt, or obtaining additional financing. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In the absence of adequate cash from operations and other available capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate these dispositions for fair market value, in a timely manner or at all. Furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service or other obligations then due. The terms of certain of our debt agreements require us to comply with specified financial covenants and ratios. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flows from operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants under the agreements could result in a default under those agreements, which could cause all of our existing indebtedness to be immediately due and payable. In addition to making it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt and other obligations, our indebtedness could limit our ability to respond to changes in the markets in which we operate and otherwise limit our activities. For example, our indebtedness, and the terms of agreements governing that indebtedness, could increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and impair our ability to withstand sustained declines in commodity prices and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Our revolving credit facilities limit the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount determined by the lenders. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base may be required to be repaid immediately, and we may not have the financial resources in the future to make those repayments. Our inability to borrow additional funds under our revolving credit facilities, or a requirement to repay borrowings in excess of a reduced borrowing base, could adversely affect our operations and our financial results. Our limited partner interest in the Caliber joint venture may be diluted. In October 2012, a wholly owned subsidiary of ours entered into a joint venture to provide crude oil, natural gas and water transportation services to us and third-parties primarily in the Williston Basin. In connection with its investment in the joint venture entity, our subsidiary received a 30% percent limited partner interest, as well as certain trigger units convertible into limited partner interests that would cause us to increase our ownership to a 50% limited partner interest. Further, our subsidiary received certain warrants that would allow us to purchase additional limited partner interests at specified prices. The trigger units vest upon the joint venture’s achievement of certain business performance metrics, namely connecting at least 162 TUSA wells to the joint venture’s gathering system or attaining aggregate revenues attributable to third party volumes equaling or exceeding 50% percent of projected distributable cash flows as set forth in the joint venture’s annual plan for six consecutive quarters or eight non-consecutive quarters. There are numerous factors that may adversely affect the achievement of the aforementioned business performance metrics, including, but not limited to, depressed commodity prices, TUSA’s failure to establish commercial discoveries on properties that it intended to connect to the gathering system, competition from other oil and natural gas gathering, transportation and processing companies, regulatory barriers, increased drilling and production costs, and other factors causing TUSA and third-party providers to shut-in production or seek alternative sources for their transportation needs. If the business performance metrics are never achieved, our trigger units will not vest, and we will be unable to increase our limited partner interest above 30% absent a direct capital outlay. 33 Table of Contents Further, if the joint venture partner makes an additional capital contribution and we choose not to invest additional capital in the joint venture, we would be diluted below our current 30% limited partner interest. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or reduced income, or could limit our potential gains from increases in prices. We use derivatives for a portion of our crude oil production to reduce exposure to adverse fluctuations in prices of crude oil and to achieve a more predictable cash flow. These arrangements expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when sales are different than expected, the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contractual obligations, or when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the derivative agreement and actual prices that we receive. These risks may be exacerbated by the fact that our derivative contracts are currently with one counterparty. In addition, derivative arrangements may limit the benefit from increases in the price for crude oil, and they may also require the use of our resources to meet cash margin requirements. Since we do not designate our derivatives as hedges, we do not currently qualify for use of hedge accounting; therefore, changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded in our statements of operations, and our net income is subject to greater volatility than it would be if our derivative instruments qualified for hedge accounting. For instance, if the price of crude oil rises significantly, it could result in significant non-cash charges each quarter, which could have a material negative effect on our net income. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, imposes restrictions on the use and trading of certain derivatives, including energy derivatives. The nature and scope of those restrictions is in the process of being determined in significant part through implementing regulations adopted by the SEC, the Commodities Futures Trading Commission and other regulators. If, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act or its implementing regulations, capital or margin requirements or other limitations relating to our commodity derivative activities are imposed, this could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our hedging strategy. In particular, a requirement to post cash collateral in connection with our derivative positions would likely make it impracticable to implement our current hedging strategy. In addition, requirements and limitations imposed on our derivative counterparties could increase the costs of pursuing our hedging strategy. We have restated our financial statements in the past and may be required to do so in the future. We have restated or corrected certain financial information in the past, including by issuing restated financial information for the quarters ended April 30, 2007, July 31, 2007 and October 31, 2007, for the year ended January 31, 2012, and, most recently, for the quarter ended October 31, 2012. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves making estimates, judgments, interpretations and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. These estimates, judgments, interpretations and assumptions are often inherently imprecise or uncertain, and any necessary revisions to prior estimates, judgments, interpretations or assumptions could lead to further restatements. Our vertical integration strategy creates certain accounting issues relating to the relationship of our various businesses that are relatively complex, increasing the risk that we may have to restate or correct financial disclosures in the future. Any such restatement or correction may be highly time consuming, may require substantial attention from management and significant accounting costs, may result in adverse regulatory actions by the SEC or NYSE MKT and/or stockholder litigation, may cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and/or may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls that, if not properly corrected, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. As disclosed in Item 9A, we have identified a material weakness in our system of internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2013 relating to the accounting for pressure pumping income. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal controls over financial reporting that results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of this material weakness, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of January 31, 2013. We are in the process of implementing system and procedural changes to prevent these issues from recurring in fiscal year 2014. If we are not able to remedy the control deficiencies in a timely manner, or if other deficiencies arise in the future, we may be unable to provide holders of our securities with required financial 34 Table of Contents information in a timely and reliable manner and we could be required to restate or correct our financial statements in the future. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. Some of the factors that could negatively affect such share price include: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; · liquidity; · sales of common stock by our stockholders; · changes in oil and natural gas prices; · changes in our cash flow from operations or earnings estimates; · publication of research reports about us or the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry generally; · increases in market interest rates which may increase our cost of capital; · changes in applicable laws or regulations, court rulings and enforcement and legal actions; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we incur in the future; · additions or departures of key management personnel; · actions by our stockholders; · commencement of or involvement in litigation; · news reports relating to trends, concerns, technological or competitive developments, regulatory changes and other related issues in our industry; · speculation in the press or investment community regarding our business; · inability to list our common stock on a national securities exchange; · general market and economic conditions; and · domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. Financial markets have recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities that have, in many cases, been unrelated to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of the companies issuing those securities. Accordingly, the market price of our common stock may decline even if our results of operations, underlying asset values or prospects improve or remain consistent. Limited trading volume in our common stock may contribute to price volatility. As a relatively small company with a limited market capitalization, even if our shares are more widely disseminated, we are uncertain as to whether a more active trading market in our common stock will develop. As a result, relatively small trades may have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. In addition, because of the limited trading volume in our common stock and the price volatility of our common stock, you may be unable to sell your shares of common stock when you desire or at the price you desire. The inability to sell your shares in a declining market because of such illiquidity, or at a price you desire, may substantially increase your risk of loss. In the past, we have not paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In the past, we have not paid dividends on our common stock and do not expect to declare or pay any cash or other dividends in the foreseeable future on our common stock, as we intend to use cash flow generated by operations to develop our business. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. Future sales or other issuances of our common stock could depress the market for our common stock. We may seek to raise additional funds through one or more public offerings of our common stock, in amounts and at prices and terms determined at the time of the offering. We may also use our common stock as consideration to make acquisitions, including acquisitions of additional leasehold interests. Any issuances of large 35 Table of Contents quantities of our common stock could reduce the price of our common stock. In addition, to the extent that we issue equity securities to fund our business plan, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Issuances, or the availability for sale, of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the value of our common stock. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future issuances of our common stock, or the availability of common stock for future sales, will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market and the availability of shares for future sale, including by one or more of our significant stockholders or shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options to acquire shares of our common stock, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. This in turn would adversely affect the fair value of the common stock and could impair our future ability to raise capital through an offering of our equity securities. Anti-takeover provisions could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Business Corporations Act, which generally prohibits certain business combination transactions between a corporation and an “interested stockholder” within three years of the time such stockholder became an interested stockholder, absent, in most cases, board or stockholder approval. An “interested stockholder” is any person who, together with affiliates and associates, is the owner of 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation, and the term “business combination” encompasses a wide variety of transactions with or caused by an interested stockholder, including mergers, asset sales and other transactions in which the interested stockholder receives a benefit on other than a pro rata basis with other stockholders. Although a corporation can opt out of Section 203 in its certificate of incorporation, we have not done so. Section 203 may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors, including by discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium being paid over the then-current market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 