ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained herein as well as the information included in this annual report in evaluating our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, other than those we describe below, that are not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. You should refer to the other information contained in this annual report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of losses which may continue and negatively impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. We incurred net losses of $20,277,197 and $2,140,101 for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively. We cannot assure you that we can achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our operations are subject to the risks and competition inherent in the oil and natural gas industry. We cannot assure you that future operations will be profitable. Revenues and profits, if any, will depend upon various factors, including whether we will be able to expand our revenues. We may not achieve our business objectives and the failure to achieve such goals would have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and result of operations. Oil and natural gas drilling is a speculative activity and involves numerous risks and substantial and uncertain costs that could adversely affect us. An investment in us should be considered speculative due to the nature of our involvement in the exploration for, and the acquisition, development and production of, oil and natural gas. Oil and natural gas operations involve many risks, which even a combination of experience and knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. There is no assurance that commercial quantities of oil and natural gas will be discovered or acquired by us. 14 We have substantial capital requirements that, if not met, may hinder our operations. We anticipate that we will make substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves in the future and for future drilling programs. If we have insufficient revenues, we may have a limited ability to expend the capital necessary to undertake or complete future drilling programs. We cannot assure you that debt or equity financing, or cash generated by operations, will be available or sufficient to meet these requirements or for other corporate purposes, or if debt or equity financing is available, that it will be on terms acceptable to us. Moreover, future activities may require us to alter our capitalization significantly. Our inability to access sufficient capital for our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. We may not adhere to our proposed drilling schedule. Our final determination of whether to drill any scheduled or budgeted wells will be dependent on a number of factors, including: · the availability and costs of drilling and service equipment and crews; · economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling; · prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and natural gas; · the availability of sufficient capital resources; · the results of our drilling; · the acquisition, review and interpretation of seismic data; and · our ability to obtain permits for drilling locations. Although we have identified or budgeted for numerous drilling locations, we may not be able to drill those locations within our expected time frame, or at all. In addition, our drilling schedule may vary from our expectations because of future uncertainties. Acquisitions may prove to be worth less than we paid because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our recent growth is due in large part to acquisitions of producing properties and undeveloped leasehold. We expect acquisitions will also contribute to our future growth. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties which we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems, and does not involve a review of seismic data or independent environmental testing. In addition, our review may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities, including any structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to acquire oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or be able to complete future acquisitions on terms that we believe are acceptable or, even if completed, that do not contain problems that reduce the value of acquired property. The results of our planned drilling in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations, each an emerging play with limited drilling and production history, are subject to more uncertainties than drilling programs in more established formations and may not meet our expectations for production. In the second half of 2011, we plan to begin drilling wells in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations. Part of our drilling strategy to maximize recoveries from the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations involves the drilling of horizontal wells using completion techniques that have proven to be successful for other companies in other shale formations. Our experience with horizontal drilling of the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations, as well as the industry’s drilling and production history in the formations, is limited. The ultimate success of these drilling and completion strategies and techniques in these formations will be better evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and longer term production profiles are established. In addition, the decline rates in these formations may be more substantial than in other areas and in other shale formations, making overall production difficult to estimate until our experience in these formations increases. Accordingly, the results of our future drilling in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations are more uncertain than drilling results in the other formations with established reserves and production histories. Further, access to adequate gathering systems or pipeline takeaway capacity and the availability of drilling rigs and other services may be more challenging in new or emerging plays. If our drilling results are less than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, access to gathering systems and takeaway capacity or otherwise, and/or oil and natural gas prices remain depressed or decline further, the return on our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as we anticipate and we could incur material writedowns of unevaluated properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future. 15 The lack of availability or high cost of drilling rigs, fracture stimulation crews, equipment, supplies, insurance, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, fracture stimulation crews, equipment, supplies, insurance or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling rig crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. If increasing levels of exploration and production result in response to strong prices of oil and natural gas, the demand for oilfield services will likely rise, and the costs of these services will likely increase, while the quality of these services may suffer. If the lack of availability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, insurance or qualified personnel were particularly severe in North Dakota or Montana, we could be materially and adversely affected because our operations and properties are concentrated in those areas. The proposed United States federal budget for fiscal year 2011 and other pending legislation contain certain provisions that, if passed as originally submitted, will have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operation. In February 2010, the Obama administration released its budget proposals for the fiscal year 2011, which included numerous proposed tax changes. The proposed budget and legislation would repeal many tax incentives and deductions that are currently used by U.S. oil and natural gas companies and impose new taxes. Among others, the provisions include: repeal of the enhanced oil recovery and marginal well tax credits; repeal of the expensing of intangible drilling costs; repeal of the deduction for tertiary injectants; repeal of passive loss exceptions for working interests in oil and natural gas properties; repeal of the percentage depletion deduction for oil and natural gas properties; repeal of the manufacturing tax deduction for oil and natural gas companies; increase in the geological and geophysical amortization period for independent producers; and implementation of a fee on non-producing leases located on federal lands. Should some or all of these provisions become law our taxes could increase, potentially significantly, after net operating losses are exhausted, which would have a negative impact on our business, financial position and results of operation. This could also reduce our drilling activities in the future. Although these proposals initially were made more than one year ago, none have been voted on or become law. We do not know the ultimate impact these proposed changes may have on our business, financial position and results of operation. We rely on independent experts and technical or operational service providers over whom we may have limited control. We use independent contractors to provide us with technical assistance and services. We rely upon the owners and operators of rigs and drilling equipment, and upon providers of field services, to drill and develop our prospects to production. In addition, we rely upon the services of other third parties to explore or analyze our prospects to determine a method in which the prospects may be developed in a cost-effective manner. Our limited control over the activities and business practices of these providers, any inability on our part to maintain satisfactory commercial relationships with them or their failure to provide quality services could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The termination of our agreements with Slawson, Kodiak or OGR could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our agreements with Slawson, Kodiak and Oppenheimer Global Resource Private Equity Fund I and a related co-investment fund (“OGR”) are essential to us and our future development. Our agreement with Slawson remains in effect as long as there is a producing well and for a period of 90 days thereafter, but may be continued if another well is being drilled or reworked at the end of this period. Our agreement with OGR remains in effect until October 2013 unless either OGR achieves certain acquisition thresholds before that date and elects to extend the term of the agreement, or OGR fails to achieve certain thresholds and we elect to terminate the agreement. Also, OGR may terminate the agreement if our net worth falls below a certain level or OGR determines that changes in our executive management team or financial prospects are not satisfactory. Termination of any of these agreements would require us to seek another collaborative relationship in that territory. We cannot assure you that a suitable alternative third party would be identified, and even if identified, we cannot assure you that the terms of any new relationship would be commercially acceptable to us, and as a result, any such termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our agreements with Slawson, Kodiak and OGR and other agreements that we may enter into, present a number of challenges that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our agreements with Slawson, Kodiak and OGR represent a significant portion of our business in the near future. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we plan to enter into other similar transactions, some of which may be material. These transactions typically involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including the existence of unknown potential disputes, liabilities or contingencies that arise after entering into these arrangements related to the counterparties to such arrangements. We could experience financial or other setbacks if such transactions encounter unanticipated problems due to challenges, including problems related to execution or integration. Any of these risks could reduce our revenues or increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 16 We depend on successful exploration, development and acquisitions to develop any future reserves and grow production and revenue in the future. Acquisitions of oil and natural gas acreage, reserves and assets are typically based on engineering and economic assessments made by independent engineers and our own assessments. These assessments will include a series of assumptions regarding such factors as recoverability and marketability of oil and natural gas, future prices of oil and natural gas and operating costs, future capital expenditures and royalties and other government levies which will be imposed over the producing life of the reserves. Many of these factors are subject to change and are beyond our control. In particular, the prices of and markets for oil and natural gas products may change from those anticipated at the time of making such assessment. In addition, all such assessments involve a measure of geologic and engineering uncertainty that could result in lower production and reserves than anticipated. Initial assessments of acquisitions may be based on reports by a firm of independent engineers that are not the same as the firm that we have used. Because each firm may have different evaluation methods and approaches, these initial assessments may differ significantly from the assessments of the firm used by us. Properties we acquire may be in an unexpected condition and may subject us to increased costs and liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Although we review acquired properties prior to acquisition in a manner consistent with industry practices, such reviews are not capable of identifying all potential conditions. Generally, it is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. Ordinarily, we will focus our review efforts on the higher value properties or properties with known adverse conditions and will sample the remainder. However, even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems or permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their condition or any deficiencies. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. As a result, we may not acquire good title to some of our acquired properties and we may assume unknown liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have difficulty managing growth in our business, which could adversely affect our business plan, financial condition and results of operations. Growth in accordance with our business plan, if achieved, will place a significant strain on our financial, technical, operational and management resources. As we expand our activities and increase the number of projects we are evaluating or in which we participate, there will be additional demands on these resources. The failure to continue to upgrade our technical, administrative, operating and financial control systems or the occurrences of unexpected expansion difficulties, including the failure to recruit and retain experienced managers, geologists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to timely execute our business plan. Substantially all of our net leasehold acreage is undeveloped, and that acreage may not ultimately be developed or become commercially productive, which could have a material adverse effect on our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our future cash flow and income. Substantially all of our net leasehold acreage is undeveloped, or acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas. In addition, many of our oil and natural gas leases require us to drill wells that are commercially productive, and if we are unsuccessful in drilling such wells, we could lose our rights under such leases. We intend to develop our leasehold acreage by funding our exploration, exploitation and development activities. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our future cash flow and income are highly dependent on successfully developing our undeveloped leasehold acreage. We may be unable to successfully acquire additional leasehold interests or other oil and natural gas properties, which may inhibit our ability to grow our production. Acquisitions of leasehold interests or other oil and natural gas properties have been an important element of our business, and we will continue to pursue acquisitions in the future. In the last several years, we have pursued and consummated leasehold or other property acquisitions that have provided us opportunities to expand our acreage position and, to a lesser extent, grow our production. Although we regularly engage in discussions and submit proposals regarding leasehold interests or other properties, suitable acquisitions may not be available in the future on reasonable terms. 17 As most of our properties are in the exploration stage, we cannot assure you that we will establish commercial discoveries on our properties. Exploration for economically recoverable reserves of oil and natural gas is subject to a number of risks. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing oil and/or natural gas wells. Most of our properties are only in the exploration stage and we have only limited revenues from operations. While we do have a limited amount of production of natural gas, we may not establish commercial discoveries on any of our properties. Failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a limited operating history in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations in North Dakota and if we are not successful in continuing to grow our business, then we may have to scale back or even cease our ongoing business operations. We have a limited operating history in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations in North Dakota. Our success is significantly dependent on a successful acquisition, drilling, completion and production program. Our operations in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations will be subject to all the risks inherent in the establishment of a developing enterprise and the uncertainties arising from the absence of a significant operating history. We may be unable to locate recoverable reserves or operate on a profitable basis. We are in the early stage of the exploration and development phase of our plan and potential investors should be aware of the difficulties normally encountered by enterprises in this stage. If our business plan is not successful and we are not able to operate profitably, investors may lose some or all of their investment. Our method of accounting for investments in oil and natural gas properties may result in impairment of asset value. We follow the full cost method of accounting for oil and natural gas properties. Accordingly, all costs associated with the acquisition, exploration and development of oil and natural gas properties, including costs of undeveloped leasehold, geological and geophysical expenses, dry holes, leasehold equipment and legal due diligence costs directly related to acquisition, exploration and development activities, are capitalized. Capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties also include estimated asset retirement costs recorded based on the fair value of the asset retirement obligation when incurred. The capitalized costs plus future development and dismantlement costs are depleted and charged to operations using the equivalent unit-of-production method based on proved oil and natural gas reserves as determined by our independent petroleum engineers. To the extent that such capitalized costs, net of depreciation and amortization, exceed the present value of estimated future net revenues, discounted at 10%, from proved oil and natural gas reserves, after income tax effects, such excess costs are charged to operations, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Once incurred, a write down of oil and natural gas properties is not reversible at a later date, even if oil or natural gas prices increase. We cannot control the activities on the properties we do not operate and are unable to ensure their proper operation and profitability. We currently do not operate substantially all of the properties in which we have an interest, including all of our acreage in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations; however, we currently control and intend to operate 10% to 15% of our acreage. As a result, we have limited ability to exercise influence over, and control the risks associated with, operations of these properties. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations, an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements or an operator’s failure to act in our best interests could reduce our production and revenues. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator’s timing and amount of capital expenditures, expertise and financial resources, inclusion of other participants in drilling wells and use of technology. Our lack of diversification will increase the risk of an investment in us. Our current business focus is on the oil and natural gas industry in a limited number of properties, primarily in North Dakota. Larger companies have the ability to manage their risk by diversification. However, we currently lack diversification, in terms of both the nature and geographic scope of our business. As a result, we will likely be impacted more acutely by factors affecting our industry or the regions in which we operate, such as the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations, than we would if our business were more diversified, increasing our risk profile. 18 Because we have a small asset base and have limited access to additional capital, we may have to limit our exploration activity, which may result in a loss of investment. We have a small asset base and limited access to additional capital. Due to our brief operating history and historical operating losses, our operations have not been a source of liquidity and we expect to raise additional capital through equity financings. We presently do not have any available credit or bank financing sources of liquidity. We expect significant capital expenditures during 2011 for land acquisitions and drilling programs on our U.S. oil shale program and for overhead and working capital purposes. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining additional funding. In that event, we may not be able to complete our planned exploration programs. If additional financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms, we will have to curtail our operations and investors may lose their investment. If we are unable to raise additional funds or secure a new joint operating partner in the Windsor Block, we may be required to surrender the Windsor Block lease. On April 15, 2009, we entered into a 10-year production lease for approximately 474,625 gross acres (approximately 412,924 net acres) of land. In April 2011, we are required to provide a technical report and the Government of Nova Scotia may request the surrender of certain lands they deem not adequately evaluated. In the future, we may not meet the Government of Nova Scotia’s drilling and production requirements and therefore we may be required to surrender certain or all lands in this area in the future. At the end of the fifth year of the lease, areas of the land block not adequately drilled or otherwise evaluated may be subject to surrender. Since April 15, 2009, we have completed three exploration wells and acquired seismic data towards the production lease commitments. There is a risk that our joint venture partner in the Windsor Block will not be able to pay for their portion (13%) of the well costs, which could also slow down or stop exploration on the Windsor Block. We will have to raise additional funds or secure a new joint operating partner in the Windsor Block to complete the exploration and development phase of our Windsor Block programs and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. There is a risk that we may not obtain the necessary additional funds or a new partner to continue operations and to determine the existence, discovery and successful exploitation of economically recoverable reserves and the attainment of profitable operations on our Windsor Block. If we do not obtain additional funds or secure a new partner, we may be required to surrender the lease. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting standards, we review our unevaluated properties at the end of each quarter to determine whether portions of the costs should be reclassified to the full cost pool, subject to amortization and potentially written off as part of the ceiling test. The factors discussed above increase the risk that the carrying value of the Windsor Block could be considered impaired under U.S. generally accepted accounting standards and the impairment charge could be significant. We face strong competition from other oil and natural gas companies. We encounter competition from other oil and natural gas companies in all areas of our operations, including the acquisition of exploratory prospects and proven properties. Our competitors include major oil and natural gas companies and numerous independent oil and natural gas companies, individuals and drilling and income programs. Many of our competitors have been engaged in the oil and natural gas business much longer than we have and possess substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than us. These companies may be able to pay more for exploratory projects and productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may be able to expend greater resources on the existing and changing technologies that we believe are and will be increasingly important to attaining success in the industry. Such competitors may also be in a better position to secure oilfield services and equipment on a timely basis or on more favorable terms. We may not be able to conduct our operations, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions successfully in this highly competitive environment. Current global financial conditions have been characterized by increased volatility which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Current global financial conditions and recent market events have been characterized by increased volatility and the resulting tightening of the credit and capital markets has reduced the amount of available liquidity and overall economic activity. We cannot assure you that debt or equity financing, the ability to borrow funds or cash generated by operations will be available or sufficient to meet or satisfy our initiatives, objectives or requirements. Our inability to access sufficient amounts of capital on terms acceptable to us for our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. 19 The potential profitability of oil and natural gas properties depends upon factors beyond our control. The potential profitability of oil and natural gas properties is dependent upon many factors beyond our control. For instance, world prices and markets for oil and natural gas are unpredictable, highly volatile, potentially subject to governmental fixing, pegging, controls or any combination of these and other factors, and respond to changes in domestic, international, political, social and economic environments. Additionally, due to worldwide economic uncertainty, the availability and cost of funds for production and other expenses have become increasingly difficult, if not impossible, to project. These changes and events may materially affect our financial performance. In addition, a productive well may become commercially unproductive in the event that water or other deleterious substances are encountered which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or natural gas from the well. In addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is impregnated with water or other deleterious substances. These factors cannot be accurately predicted and the combination of these factors may result in us not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. Seasonal weather conditions and other factors could adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities. Our operations could be adversely affected by weather conditions and wildlife restrictions on federal leases. In the Williston Basin, drilling and other oil and natural gas activities cannot be conducted as effectively during the winter months. Winter and severe weather conditions limit and may temporarily halt the ability to operate during such conditions. The level of activity in the Canadian oil and gas industry is influenced by seasonal weather patterns. Wet weather and spring thaw may make the ground unstable. Consequently, municipalities and provincial transportation departments enforce road bans that restrict the movement of rigs and other heavy equipment, thereby reducing activity levels. Also, certain oil and natural gas producing areas are located in areas that are inaccessible other than during the winter months because the ground surrounding the sites in these areas consists of swampy terrain. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay or temporarily halt our oil and natural gas operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to retain the services of Dr. Hill and Mr. Samuels, or if we are unable to successfully recruit qualified managerial and field personnel having experience in oil and natural gas exploration, we may not be able to continue our operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of our directors and officers and, in particular, Peter Hill, our Chief Executive Officer, and Jonathan Samuels, our Chief Financial Officer. Loss of the services of Dr. Hill or Mr. Samuels could have a material adverse effect on our growth, revenues and prospective business. We have not and do not expect to obtain key man insurance on our management. In addition, in order to successfully implement and manage our business plan, we will be dependent upon, among other things, successfully recruiting qualified managerial and field personnel having experience in the oil and natural gas exploration business. Competition for qualified individuals is intense. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain existing employees or that we will be able to find, attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. The marketability of natural resources will be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. The markets and prices for oil and natural gas depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for oil and natural gas, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions, and other factors, including: · worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and natural gas; · actions taken by foreign oil and natural gas producing nations; · political conditions and events (including instability or armed conflict) in oil-producing or natural gas-producing regions; · the level of global and domestic oil and natural gas inventories; · the price and level of foreign imports; · the level of consumer demand; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · the availability of pipeline or other takeaway capacity; · weather conditions; · terrorist activity; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and · the overall worldwide and domestic economic environment. Significant declines in oil and natural gas prices for an extended period may have the following effects on our business: · adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations; · cause us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects; · reduce our revenues, operating income and cash flow; and · limit our access to sources of capital. 20 We may have difficulty distributing our oil and natural gas production, which could harm our financial condition. In order to sell the oil and natural gas that we are able to produce from the Williston Basin and the Maritimes Basin, we may have to make arrangements for storage and distribution to the market. We will rely on local infrastructure and the availability of transportation for storage and shipment of our products, but infrastructure development and storage and transportation facilities may be insufficient for our needs at commercially acceptable terms in the localities in which we operate. This situation could be exacerbated to the extent that our operations are conducted in remote areas that are difficult to access, such as areas that are distant from shipping and/or pipeline facilities. These factors may affect our ability to explore and develop properties and to store and transport our oil and natural gas production, which may increase our expenses. Furthermore, weather conditions or natural disasters, actions by companies doing business in one or more of the areas in which we will operate or labor disputes may impair the distribution of oil and/or natural gas and in turn diminish our financial condition or ability to maintain our operations. Oil and natural gas operations are subject to comprehensive regulation which may cause substantial delays or require capital outlays in excess of those anticipated, causing an adverse effect on us. Oil and natural gas operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including laws regulating removal of natural resources from the ground and the discharge of materials into the environment. Oil and natural gas operations are also subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations which seek to maintain health and safety standards by regulating the design and use of drilling methods and equipment. Various permits from government authorities are required for drilling operations to be conducted and no assurance can be given that such permits will be received. The failure or delay in obtaining the requisite approvals or permits may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Hydraulic fracturing, the process used for releasing oil and natural gas from shale rock, has recently come under increased scrutiny and could be the subject of further regulation that could impact the timing and cost of development. Recently there has been some public concern over the hydraulic fracturing process with regards to shale gas formations in the United States and Eastern Canada. Most of these concerns have raised questions regarding the drilling fluids used in the fracturing process, their effect on fresh water aquifers, the use of water in connection with completion operations and the ability of such water to be recycled. Certain government and regulatory agencies in Canada, including the Province of Quebec, and the United States have begun investigating the potential risks associated with the hydraulic fracturing process. The Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, recently amended the Underground Injection Control, or UIC, provisions of the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (the “SDWA”) to exclude hydraulic fracturing from the definition of “underground injection.” However, the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives are currently considering bills entitled the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act (the “FRAC Act”) to amend the SDWA to repeal this exemption. If enacted, the FRAC Act would amend the definition of “underground injection” in the SDWA to encompass hydraulic fracturing activities, which could require hydraulic fracturing operations to meet permitting and financial assurance requirements, adhere to certain construction specifications, fulfill monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping obligations, and meet plugging and abandonment requirements. The FRAC Act also proposes to require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. Hydraulic fracturing is the primary production method used to produce reserves located in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations. Depending on the legislation that may ultimately be enacted or the regulations that may be adopted at the federal, state and/or provincial levels, exploration and production activities that entail hydraulic fracturing could be subject to additional regulation and permitting requirements. Individually or collectively, such new legislation or regulation could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional burdens that could increase the costs and delay the development of unconventional oil and natural gas resources from shale formations which are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In March of 2011 the environmental public hearings board of Quebec recommended, and the government agreed, that the rules for shale gas exploration and development would be delayed pending completion of a strategic environmental assessment. The strategic environmental assessment is expected to begin in June of 2011 and take up to two years to complete. It is unclear at this time whether, and under what circumstances hydraulic fracturing will be permitted in that Province. It is also unknown if any other Provinces, including Nova Scotia, will take a similar approach. 21 Exploration activities are subject to certain environmental regulations which may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of our operations. In general, our exploration activities are subject to certain federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. Specifically, we are subject to legislation regarding emissions into the environment, water discharges and storage and disposition of hazardous wastes. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of permits before drilling commences; restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment from drilling and production activities; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells; and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Such laws and regulations increase the costs of our exploration activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. In addition, legislation has been enacted which requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state or provincial authorities. Such laws and regulations are frequently changed and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance. With the introduction of the Kyoto Protocol, oil and natural gas producers may be required to reduce GHG emissions. This could result in, among other things, increased operating and capital expenditures for those producers. This could also make certain production of oil or natural gas by those producers uneconomic, resulting in reductions in such production. The Kyoto Protocol was ratified by the Government of Canada in December of 2002 and commits Canada to reducing its GHG emissions levels to 6% below 1990 “business-as-usual” levels by 2012. It officially came into force on February 16, 2005. Since that date the Government of Canada has indicated it will be unable to meet its Kyoto Protocol commitments. We are unable to predict the effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations of the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol by the Government of Canada or its subsequent position that Canada cannot meet its commitments thereunder. The first commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol ends in 2012. Government leaders and representatives from approximately 170 countries met in Copenhagen, Denmark from December 7 through 18, 2009 (the “Copenhagen Conference”) to attempt to negotiate a successor to the Kyoto Protocol. The Copenhagen Conference resulted in a broad political consensus rather than a binding international treaty, or the Copenhagen Accord, that has not been endorsed by all participating countries. The Copenhagen Accord reinforces the commitment to reducing the emissions of GHGs contained in the Kyoto Protocol and promises funding to help developing countries mitigate and adapt to climate change. In response to the Copenhagen Accord, the Government of Canada indicated on January 29, 2010 that it will seek to achieve a 17% reduction in GHG emissions from its 2005 levels by 2020. We are unable to predict the effect that compliance with the Copenhagen Accord by the Government of Canada will have on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for, or responding to, those effects. On December 15, 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allowed the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. On November 30, 2010, the EPA issued a final rule requiring reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from the oil and natural gas industry. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, oil and natural gas operations could increase costs or could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas produced from our lands. Also, on June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, or ACESA, which would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce United States emissions of GHGs including carbon dioxide and methane that may contribute to the warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. If it becomes law, ACESA would require a 17% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from 2005 levels by 2020 and just over an 80% reduction of such emissions by 2050. Under this legislation, the EPA would issue a capped and steadily declining number of tradable emissions allowances to certain major sources of greenhouse gas emissions so that such sources could continue to emit GHGs into the atmosphere. These allowances would be expected to escalate significantly in cost over time. The net effect of ACESA will be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products and natural gas. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for restricting domestic greenhouse gas emissions and President Obama has indicated his support of legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through an emission allowance system. Although it is not possible at this time to predict when the Senate may act on climate change legislation or how any bill passed by the Senate would be reconciled with ACESA, any future federal laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. 22 The EPA has also promulgated regulations which (i) beginning in January 2011, phase in restrictions on GHG emissions from stationary sources and (ii) require collection, beginning in January 2011, and reporting, beginning in March 2012, of data on GHG emissions from certain sources. The EPA's jurisdictional ability to regulate GHG emissions is currently subject to challenge in both the courts and Congress. At this time, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these challenges. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our exploration and production operations. Significant physical effects of climate change could also have an indirect effect on our financing and operations by disrupting the transportation or process-related services provided by midstream companies, service companies or suppliers with whom we have a business relationship. We may not be able to recover through insurance some or any of the damages, losses or costs that may result from potential physical effects of climate change and as a result, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Exploratory drilling involves many risks and we may become liable for pollution or other liabilities which may have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Drilling operations generally involve a high degree of risk. Hazards such as unusual or unexpected geological formations, power outages, labor disruptions, blow-outs, sour gas leakage, fire, inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labor and other risks are involved. We may become subject to liability for pollution or hazards against which we cannot adequately insure or for which we may elect not to insure. Incurring any such liability may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Any change in government regulation and/or administrative practices may have a negative impact on our ability to operate and on our profitability. The laws, regulations, policies or current administrative practices of any government body, organization or regulatory agency in the United States or Canada or any other jurisdiction may be changed, applied or interpreted in a manner which will fundamentally alter our ability to carry on our business. The actions, policies or regulations, or changes thereto, of any government body or regulatory agency, or other special interest groups, may have a detrimental effect on us. Any or all of these situations may have a negative impact on our ability to operate and/or our profitability. Aboriginal claims could have an adverse effect on us and our operations. Aboriginal peoples have claimed aboriginal title and rights to portions of Canada where we operate, including in the Province of Nova Scotia, where our Windsor Block acreage is located. We are not aware that any claims have been made in respect of our property and assets. However, if a claim arose and was successful, it could have an adverse effect on us and our business operations, financial conditions and prospects. We do not plan to insure against all potential operating risks. We might incur substantial losses from, and be subject to substantial liability claims for, uninsured or underinsured risks related to our oil and natural gas operations. We do not intend to insure against all risks. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities will be subject to hazards and risks associated with drilling for, producing and transporting oil and natural gas, and any of these risks can cause substantial losses resulting from: · environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; · abnormally pressured formations; · mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling and service tools and casing collapse; · fires and explosions; · personal injuries and death; · regulatory investigations and penalties; and · natural disasters. We might elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 23 No assurance can be given that defects in our title to oil and natural gas interests do not exist. Title to oil and natural gas interests is often not possible to determine without incurring substantial expense. An independent title review was completed with respect to certain of the oil and natural gas rights acquired by us and the interests in oil and natural gas rights owned by us. However, no assurance can be given that title defects do not exist. If a title defect does exist, it is possible that we may lose all or a portion of the properties to which the title defect relates. Our actual interest in certain properties may therefore vary from our records. We are subject to the requirements of Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to timely comply with Section 404(a) or if the costs related to compliance are significant, our profitability, stock price, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are required to comply with the provisions of Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404(a) requires that we document and test our internal controls over financial reporting and issue management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. We believe that the out-of-pocket costs, the diversion of management’s attention from running the day-to-day operations and operational changes caused by the need to comply with the requirements of Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could be significant. If the time and costs associated with such compliance exceed our current expectations, our profitability, stock price, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We cannot be certain at this time that we will identify any material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404(a) or if we identify and report any additional material weaknesses, the accuracy and timeliness of the filing of our annual and quarterly reports may be materially adversely affected and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting could result in an increased chance of fraud and the loss of customers, reduce our ability to obtain financing and require additional expenditures to comply with these requirements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Canadian operations subject us to currency exchange rate risk, which could cause our financial condition and results of operations to fluctuate significantly from period to period. A portion of our revenues are derived from our Canadian activities and operations. As a result, we translate the financial condition and results of operations of our Canadian operations into U.S. dollars. Therefore, our reported financial condition and results of operations are subject to changes in the exchange relationship between the two currencies. For example, as the relationship of the Canadian dollar strengthens against the U.S. dollar, our revenue denominated in Canadian dollars is favorably affected and conversely our expenses denominated in Canadian dollars are unfavorably affected. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at rates of exchange in effect at the balance sheet date and gains and losses are recorded in earnings. Non-monetary assets, liabilities and items recorded in income arising from transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at rates of exchange in effect at the date of the transaction. Our foreign currency transactions are primarily undertaken in Canadian dollars. We have not, to the date of the consolidated financial statements, entered into derivative instruments to offset the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. Some of the factors that could negatively affect such share price include: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; · liquidity; · sales of common stock by our stockholders; · changes in oil and natural gas prices; · changes in our cash flow from operations or earnings estimates; · publication of research reports about us or the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry generally; · increases in market interest rates which may increase our cost of capital; · changes in applicable laws or regulations, court rulings and enforcement and legal actions; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; 24 · adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we incur in the future; · additions or departures of key management personnel; · actions by our stockholders; · commencement of or involvement in litigation; · news reports relating to trends, concerns, technological or competitive developments, regulatory changes and other related issues in our industry; · speculation in the press or investment community regarding our business; · inability to list our common stock on a national securities exchange; · general market and economic conditions; and · domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. Financial markets have recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of companies and that have, in many cases, been unrelated to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. Accordingly, the market price of our common stock may decline even if our results of operations, underlying asset values or prospects have not changed. Additionally, these factors, as well as other related factors, may cause decreases in asset values that are deemed to be other than temporary. Limited trading volume in our common stock may contribute to price volatility. As a relatively small company with a limited market capitalization, even if our shares are more widely disseminated, we are uncertain as to whether a more active trading market in our common stock will develop. As a result, relatively small trades may have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. In addition, because of the limited trading volume in our common stock and the price volatility of our common stock, you may be unable to sell your shares of common stock when you desire or at the price you desire. The inability to sell your shares in a declining market because of such illiquidity or at a price you desire may substantially increase your risk of loss. In the past, we have not paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In the past, we have not paid dividends on our common stock and do not expect to declare or pay any cash or other dividends in the foreseeable future on our common stock, as we intend to use cash flow generated by operations to develop our business. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. Future sales or other issuances of our common stock could depress the market for our common stock. We may seek to raise additional funds through one or more public offerings of our common stock, in amounts and at prices and terms determined at the time of the offering. We may also use our common stock as consideration to make acquisitions, including to acquire additional leasehold interests. Any issuances of large quantities of our common stock could reduce the price of our common stock, and, to the extent that we issue equity securities to fund our business plan, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Issuances, or the availability for sale, of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the value of our common stock. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future issuances of our common stock, or the availability of common stock for future sales, will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market and the availability of shares for future sale, including by one or more of our significant stockholders or shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options to acquire shares of our common stock, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. This in turn would adversely affect the fair value of the common stock and could impair our future ability to raise capital through an offering of our equity securities. Anti-takeover provisions could make a third party acquisition of us difficult. We are subject to the anti-takeover law of the Nevada Revised Statutes, commonly known as the Business Combinations Act. This law provides that specified persons who, together with affiliates and associates, own, or within three years did own, 10% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation cannot engage in specified business combinations with us for a period of three years after the date on which the person became an interested stockholder. The law defines the term “business combination” to encompass a wide variety of transactions with or caused by an interested stockholder, including mergers, asset sales and other transactions in which the interested stockholder receives or could receive a benefit on other than a pro rata basis with other stockholders. This provision has an anti-takeover effect for transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares of our common stock. 25 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 