Item 1a. Risk Factors FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In particular, statements made in this report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts (including, but not limited to, expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections regarding the industry, business, future operating results, potential acquisitions, and anticipated cash requirements) may be forward-looking statements. Words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results projected, expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below under "Risks Related to ADESA's Business" and "Risks Relating to ADESA's Former Relationship with and Separation from ALLETE". Some of these factors also include: •significant changes in volume of vehicles bought, sold or financed by the Company's customers; •the mix of vehicles sold (dealer vs. institutional) at the Company's auctions and OEM pricing programs; •fluctuations and volatility in the market value of used and salvage vehicles; •changes in North America vehicle production; •the availability of used and salvage vehicles; •inability to implement price increases; •changes in buyer attendance at vehicle auctions; •the announcement of new vehicle supply agreements by ADESA or its competitors; •the introduction by competitors of new services that make ADESA's services obsolete or less valuable; •the introduction of new competitors; •the Company's ability to integrate and manage its acquisitions successfully; •the timing and size of the Company's new facility openings; •the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the maintenance and expansion of the Company's business, operations and infrastructure; 16 •third-party claims for infringement of intellectual property rights by ADESA, and the outcome of any litigation with respect thereto; •severity of weather and seasonality of weather patterns; •changes in the Canadian dollar; •changes in interest rates; •variations in vehicle accident rates and scrappage; •changes in scrap metal prices; •delays or changes in state title processing; •changes in state, provincial or federal laws or regulations affecting used or salvage vehicles or the floorplan financing of used vehicles; •the availability and cost of general business insurance; •labor costs; and •other risks described from time to time in ADESA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q to be filed by ADESA in 2006. Many of these risk factors are outside of ADESA's control, and as such, they involve risks which are not currently known to ADESA that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed or implied herein. The forward-looking statements in this document are made as of the date hereof and ADESA does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. RISKS RELATED TO ADESA's BUSINESS Because of the factors mentioned below and other variables affecting ADESA's operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. If any of these risks actually occur, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. The following discussion, as well as discussion in other areas of Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this report on Form 10-K, highlight some of these risks. Other areas of this Report on Form 10-K that discuss these risks include: •The following sections under Item 1 "Business" •Industry Overview; •Competition; •Vehicle Regulation; and •Environmental Regulation. •Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" •Item 7a "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the factors detailed below. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing ADESA. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to ADESA or currently believed to be immaterial also may adversely affect ADESA. Any risks or uncertainties that develop into actual events could have material adverse effects on ADESA's businesses, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Fluctuationsin consumer demand for used and leased vehicles impact auction sales volume and conversion rates, which may adversely affect ADESA's revenues and profitability. Used vehicle sales are driven by consumer demand. As consumer demand fluctuates, the volume and prices of used vehicles may be affected and the demand for used vehicles at auction by dealers may likewise be affected. The demand for used vehicles at auction by dealers may therefore affect wholesale price of used vehicles and the conversion percentage of vehicles sold at auction. The number of new and used vehicles that are leased by consumers affects the supply of vehicles coming to auction. As manufacturers and other lenders have decreased the number of leases in the last few years and extended the lease terms of some of the leases that were written, the number of off-lease vehicles available at auction declined in 2003, 2004 and 2005 and that decline is expected to continue in 2006. ADESA is not able to predict the manufacturers' and other lenders' approaches to leasing and thus future volumes of off-lease vehicles may be affected based upon leasing terms and trends. The supply of off-lease vehicles coming to auction is also affected by the market value of used vehicles compared to the residual value of those vehicles per the lease terms. In most cases, the lessee and the dealer have the ability to purchase the vehicle at the residual price at the end of the lease term. Generally, as market values of used vehicles rise, the number of vehicles purchased at residual value by the lessees and dealers increases, thus decreasing the number of off-lease vehicles available at auction. The Company has experienced and expects to continue to experience fluctuations in its quarterly results of operations. The Company has experienced and expects to continue to experience fluctuations in its quarterly results of operations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Among the factors that have in the past and/or could in the future affect the Company's operating results are: general business conditions; trends in new and used vehicle sales and incentives, including wholesale used vehicle pricing; economic conditions including fuel prices and Canadian exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; trends in the vehicle remarketing industry; the introduction of new competitors; competitive pricing pressures; and costs associated with the acquisition of businesses or technologies. As a result of the above factors, operations are subject to significant variability and uncertainty from quarter to quarter. ADESA may not be able to grow if the Company is unable to successfully acquire and integrate other auction businesses and facilities. The vehicle redistribution industry is considered a mature industry in which low single-digit growth is expected in industry unit sales. Acquisitions have been a significant part of the Company's historical growth and have enabled it to further broaden and diversify its service offerings. The Company's strategy involves the acquisition and integration of additional physical auction sites, technologies and personnel. Acquisition of businesses requires substantial time and attention of management personnel and may also require additional equity or debt financings. Further, integration of newly established or acquired businesses is often disruptive. Since the Company has acquired or in the future may acquire one or more businesses, there can be no assurance that the Company will identify appropriate targets, will acquire such businesses on favorable terms, or will be able to successfully integrate such organizations into its business. Failure to do so could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, ADESA expects to compete against other auction groups or new industry consolidators for suitable acquisitions. If ADESA is able to consummate acquisitions, such acquisitions could be dilutive to earnings, and ADESA could overpay for such acquisitions. In pursuing a strategy of acquiring other auctions, ADESA faces other risks commonly encountered with growth through acquisitions. These risks include, but are not limited to: •incurring significantly higher capital expenditures and operating expenses; 18 •entering new markets with which ADESA is unfamiliar; •incurring potential undiscovered liabilities at acquired auctions; •failing to maintain uniform standards, controls and policies; •impairing relationships with employees and customers as a result of management changes; and •increasing expenses for accounting and computer systems, as well as integration difficulties. High fuel prices may have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues and operating results, as well as its earnings growth rates. High fuel prices affect the demand for sport utility and full-sized vehicles which are generally not as fuel efficient as smaller vehicles. In addition, high fuel prices could lead to a reduction in the miles driven per vehicle which may reduce accident rates. Retail sales and accident rates are factors that affect the number of used and salvage vehicles sold at auction, wholesale prices of those vehicles and the conversion rates at used vehicle auctions. Additionally, high fuel costs increase the cost for the transportation and towing of vehicles. The Company may not be able to pass on such higher costs to the customers who supply vehicles to the Company's auctions. Weather-related and other events beyond ADESA's control may adversely impct operations. Extreme weather or other events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, forest fires, floods, terrorist attacks or war, may adversely affect the overall economic environment, the markets in which the Company competes, its operations and its profitability. These events may impact the Company's physical auction facilities, causing a material increase in costs, or delays or cancellation of auction sales, which could have a material adverse impact upon the Company's revenues and profitability. The Company is, and may be in the future, subject to patent infringement claims, which could have an impact on the Company's business or operating results due to a disruption in its business operations, the incurrence of significant costs and other factors. From time to time, the Company may receive notices from others claiming that it infringes their patent or intellectual property rights, and the number of these claims could increase in the future. Claims of patent infringement could require ADESA to enter into licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminary or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question, which could require ADESA to change its business practices and limit its ability to compete effectively. Even if ADESA believes that claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management's attention and resources away from its businesses. If ADESA is required to take any of these actions, it could have an adverse impact on the Company's business and operating results. Pending litigation could have an adverse effect on the Company. There is no guarantee that the Company will be successful in defending itself in legal and administrative actions or in asserting its rights under various laws, including intellectual property laws. In addition, the Company could incur substantial costs in defending itself or in asserting its rights in such actions. The costs and other effects of pending litigation and administrative actions against the Company cannot be determined with certainty. Although management currently believes that no such proceedings will have a material adverse effect on the Company, there can be no assurance that the outcome of such proceedings will be as expected. For a further discussion, see "Legal Proceedings" under Item 3 of this Report on Form 10-K. 19 ADESA faces significant competition. ADESA faces significant competition for the supply of used and salvage vehicles and for the buyers of those vehicles while the used vehicle inventory floorplan financing sector is characterized by diverse and fragmented competition. The Company faces current or potential competition from four primary sources: (i) direct competitors, (ii) potential entrants, (iii) potential new vehicle remarketing venues and dealer financing services and (iv) existing alternative vehicle remarketing venues. ADESA's auctions provide a full range of services to sellers and buyers. In both the vehicle auction and dealer financing businesses, both the Company and its competitors are working to develop new services and technologies, or improvements and modifications to existing services and technologies. Some of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging services and technologies, evolving industry trends and changes in customer requirements and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their services. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by the Company would not have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. Changes in technology could cause ADESA's competitive position to be negatively impacted and, as a result, ADESA may lose customers. Technology is critical to ADESA's operating environment and competitive position. ADESA may not be successful in structuring its technology infrastructure or developing, acquiring or implementing technology which is competitive and responsive to the needs of its customers and ADESA might lack sufficient resources to continue to make the necessary investments in technology to compete with its competitors. Increased use of online wholesale auctions may diminish ADESA's supply of vehicles. Online auctions or other methods of redistribution may diminish both the quality and quantity as well as reduce the value of vehicles sold through traditional auction facilities. Although ADESA offers online auctions and services as part of its standard service offerings, ADESA cannot predict what portion of overall sales will be conducted through online auctions or other redistribution methods in the future and what impact this may have on its auction facilities. The operation of the Company's auction facilities poses certain environmental risks which could adversely affect ADESA's results of operations and financial condition. ADESA's businesses are subject to regulation by various U.S. and Canadian federal, state, provincial and local authorities concerning air quality, water quality, solid wastes and other environmental matters. In the vehicle redistribution industry, large numbers of vehicles, including damaged vehicles at salvage auctions, are stored at auction facilities and, during that time, releases of fuel, motor oil and other fluids may occur, resulting in soil, air, surface water or groundwater contamination. In addition, the facilities generate and/or store petroleum products and other hazardous materials, including wastewater waste solvents and used oil, and body shops at the facilities may release harmful air emissions associated with painting. Further, the Company is subject to other safety and training regulations as required by local, state and federal law. The Company has an environmental and safety compliance program that is administered by the environmental and safety department of the Company and includes monitoring, measuring and reporting compliance, establishing safety programs and training Company personnel in environmental and safety matters. Any failure by the Company to obtain required permits or operate within regulations for, control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous or regulated substances or materials under present or future regulations could subject the Company to substantial liability, require costly cleanup or require changes in the Company's remarketing services or auction facilities. 20 For a further discussion of the environmental regulation of ADESA's businesses, see "Business—Environmental Regulation" under Item 1 of this Report on Form 10-K. ADESA assumes the settlement risk for all vehicles sold through its auctions. ADESA does not have recourse against sellers for any buyer's failure to satisfy its debt. Since the Company's revenues for each vehicle do not include the gross sales proceeds, failure to collect the receivables in full would result in a net loss up to the gross sales proceeds on a per vehicle basis in addition to any expenses incurred to collect the receivables and to provide the services associated with the vehicle. Although ADESA takes steps to mitigate this risk, if ADESA is unable to collect payments on a large number of vehicles, the resulting payment obligations and decreased fee revenues may have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. ADESA has debt obligations that could restrict its operations. The Company's indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: •increasing its vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions; •limiting its ability to compete and its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industry in which ADESA operates; •limiting the Company's ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and •limiting ADESA's ability to pay dividends. ADESA's debt service obligations will require the Company to use a portion of its operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on debt instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion and ongoing capital expenditures. If ADESA is not able to retain its executive officers and key employees, ADESA may not be able to implement its business strategy and the business could suffer. The Company's future performance is significantly dependent upon the continued service of its key field and senior management personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of the Company's officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition. ADESA may have difficulty in retaining and attracting customers, developing new services, negotiating favorable agreements with customers and providing acceptable levels of customer service. Although leadership changes will occur from time to time, ADESA cannot predict whether significant resignations will occur. The success of the business heavily depends on the leadership of the executive officers, all of whom are employees-at-will and many of whom are not subject to any agreements not to compete. Additionally, ADESA has no key person insurance on any of its executive officers. ADESA is dependent on good labor relations. At December 31, 2005, ADESA had a total of 10,740 employees, with 8,447 located in the U.S. and 2,293 located in Canada. Approximately 71 percent of the workforce consists of full-time employees. In addition to the workforce of employees, ADESA also utilizes temporary labor services to assist in handling the vehicles consigned during periods of peak volume. Many of the Company's employees, both full- and part-time, are unskilled, and in periods of strong economic growth, ADESA may find it difficult to compete for sufficient unskilled labor. If the Company is unable to maintain its full- or part-time workforce or the necessary relationships with third party providers, its operations may be adversely affected. 21 In addition, auctioneers at the Company's auctions are highly skilled individuals who are essential to the successful operation of its auction business. Nearly all of its auctioneers are independent contractors who provide their services for a daily or weekly rate. If ADESA is unable to retain a sufficient number of experienced auctioneers, its operations may be adversely affected. A portion of ADESA's net income is derived from Canada, which exposes the Company to foreign exchange and other risks. Fluctuations between U.S. and Canadian currency values may adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial position. In addition, there may be tax inefficiencies in repatriating cash from Canada. For the 12 months ended December 31, 2005, approximately 20 percent of the Company's revenues were attributable to its Canadian operations. A decrease in the value of the Canadian currency relative to the U.S. dollar could reduce the Company's profits from its Canadian operations and the value of the net assets of its Canadian operations when reported in U.S. dollars in the Company's financial statements. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations as reported in U.S. dollars. In addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which the earnings are generated may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of the Company's reported results of operations. For purposes of accounting, the assets and liabilities of the Company's Canadian operations, where the local currency is the functional currency, are translated using period-end exchange rates, and the revenues and expenses of the Company's Canadian operations are translated using average exchange rates during each period. Translation gains and losses are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income/loss as a component of stockholders' equity. For a further discussion of ADESA's foreign exchange risk, see "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" under Item 7a of this Report on Form 10-K. ADESA's operations may be restricted by vehicle-related or lending laws and other regulations, including vehicle brokerage and auction laws. ADESA's operations and sales of vehicles by its customers are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various U.S. and Canadian federal, state, provincial and local statutes, ordinances and regulations. For a further discussion of the vehicle regulations applicable to ADESA's businesses, see "Business—Vehicle Regulation" under Item 1 of this Report on Form 10-K. The Company has a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in the Company's net income. Goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition accounted for using the purchase method exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired. Current accounting standards require that goodwill no longer be amortized but instead be periodically evaluated for impairment based on the fair value of the reporting unit. At December 31, 2005, approximately $533 million or 27%, of ADESA's total assets represented goodwill. Declines in the Company's profitability may impact the fair value of its reporting units, which could result in a write-down of the Company's goodwill and a reduction in net income. New accounting pronouncements or new interpretations of existing standards could require ADESA to make adjustments to accounting policies that could adversely affect the financial statements. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or other accounting organizations or governmental entities issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that sometimes require changes to the Company's accounting policies and procedures. To date, ADESA does not believe any new pronouncements or interpretations have had an adverse effect on the Company's financial 22 condition or results of operations, but future pronouncements or interpretations could require the change of policies or procedures. RISKS RELATING TO ADESA's FORMER RELATIONSHIP WITH AND SEPARATION FROM ALLETE ADESA may be required to indemnify ALLETE if the spin-off becomes taxable. ADESA and ALLETE entered into a tax sharing agreement, effective on the date of the spin-off, which governs ALLETE's and ADESA's respective rights, responsibilities and obligations after the spin-off with respect to taxes for the periods ending on or before the spin-off. Under the tax sharing agreement, if the spin-off becomes taxable to ALLETE, ADESA will be required to indemnify ALLETE for any taxes which arise as a result of ADESA's actions or inaction. In addition, ADESA will be required to indemnify ALLETE for 50 percent of any taxes that do not arise as a result of actions or inaction of either ADESA or ALLETE. Consequently, to avoid causing the spin-off to be taxable to ALLETE under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, ADESA may be significantly limited in its ability to issue shares for the two-year period following the spin-off. ADESA faces risks associated with being a member of ALLETE's consolidated group for federal income tax purposes for the periods prior to the spin-off. Under the existing tax sharing agreement, ADESA generally will pay ALLETE the amount of federal income taxes that ADESA would be required to pay if ADESA were a separate taxpayer not included in ALLETE's consolidated federal tax returns for the periods prior to the spin-off on September 20, 2004. In addition, ALLETE effectively controlled substantially all of the Company's tax decisions and has sole authority to respond to and conduct all tax proceedings, including tax audits relating to ALLETE's consolidated returns in which ADESA is included; provided however, that no action will be taken by ALLETE that would materially adversely affect ADESA without first obtaining ADESA's consent. Moreover, notwithstanding the existing tax sharing agreement, federal law provides that each member of a consolidated group has several liability for the group's entire tax obligation. Thus, if ALLETE or other members of the group fail to pay taxes attributable to any period during which ADESA was a member of ALLETE's consolidated group, including the taxable year of ALLETE that ended on December 31, 2004, or if the spin-off becomes taxable as a result of ALLETE's actions or inactions and ALLETE does not satisfy the resulting tax liabilities for any reason, as required by law, notwithstanding the existing tax sharing agreement, ADESA may be liable for any part of, including the whole amount of, such liabilities. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 