Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business We may be unable to attract and retain members, which could have a negative effect on our business. The performance of our clubs is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain members, and we may not be successful in these efforts. Most of our members hold month-to-month memberships and accordingly, most members can cancel their club membership at any time. In addition, there are numerous factors that have in the past and could in the future lead to a decline in membership levels or that could prevent us from increasing our membership, including a decline in our ability to deliver quality service at a competitive cost, the presence of direct and indirect competition in the areas in which the clubs are located, the public’s interest in fitness clubs and general economic conditions. Negative economic conditions, including increased unemployment levels and decreased consumer confidence, have contributed and in the future could lead to significant pressures and declines in economic growth, including reduced consumer spending. In a depressed economic and consumer environment, consumers and businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for our services and products and such decline in demand may continue as the economy continues to struggle and disposable income declines. Other factors that could influence demand include increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. We believe the challenges to the global economy during the past several years have adversely affected our business and our revenues and profits and continuing challenges may result in additional adverse effects. As a result of these factors, membership levels might not be adequate to maintain our operations at current levels or permit the expansion of our operations. In addition, to the extent our corporate clients are adversely affected by negative economic conditions, they may decide, as part of expense reduction strategies, to curtail or cancel club membership benefits provided to their respective employees. Any reductions in corporate memberships may lead to membership cancellations as we cannot assure that employees of corporate customers will choose to continue their memberships without 17 Table of Contents employer subsidies. A decline in membership levels may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Low consumer confidence levels, increased competition and decreased spending could negatively impact our financial position and result in club closures and fixed asset and goodwill impairments. In the year ended December 31, 2011, we closed two clubs, while in 2012 we did not have any club closures. We recognized $3.4 million of fixed asset impairments in the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to no fixed asset impairments in the year ended December 31, 2011. The $3.4 million of fixed asset impairments in 2012 include $3.2 million related to fixed asset write-offs at four clubs sustaining damages from Hurricane Sandy. While there were no goodwill impairments in 2012 and 2011, we have in the past experienced goodwill impairments, in part due to decreased membership. Some of these closures and impairments were due, in large part, to the economic and consumer environment, and increased competition in areas in which our clubs operate. If the economic and consumer environment were to deteriorate further or not improve or if we are unable to improve the overall competitive position of our clubs, our operating performance may experience declines and we may need to recognize additional impairments of our fixed assets and goodwill and may be compelled to close additional clubs. In addition, we cannot ensure that we will be able to replace any of the revenue lost from these closed clubs from our other club operations. Our geographic concentration heightens our exposure to adverse regional developments. As of December 31, 2012, we operated 108 fitness clubs in the New York metropolitan market, 25 fitness clubs in the Boston market, 18 fitness clubs in the Washington, D.C. market, six fitness clubs in the Philadelphia market and three fitness clubs in Switzerland. Our geographic concentration in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions and, in particular, the New York metropolitan area, heightens our exposure to adverse developments in these areas, including those related to economic and demographic changes in these regions, competition and severe weather or other unforeseen events, such as hurricanes. For example, in the year ended December 31, 2012, 131 clubs were closed on October 29, 2012 as a result of Hurricane Sandy with 16 clubs that remained closed for over a week and two clubs which still remain closed as a result of flooding and power outages caused by Hurricane Sandy. We cannot predict the impact that any future severe weather events will have on our ability to avoid wide-spread or prolonged club closures. Any such events affecting the areas in which we operate might result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations in the future. The level of competition in the fitness club industry could negatively impact our revenue growth and profitability. The fitness club industry is highly competitive and continues to become more competitive. In each of the markets in which we operate, we compete with other fitness clubs, private studios, physical fitness and recreational facilities established by local governments, hospitals and businesses for their employees, amenity and condominium clubs, the YMCA and similar organizations and, to a certain extent, with racquet and tennis and other athletic clubs, country clubs, weight reducing salons and the home-use fitness equipment industry. We also compete with other entertainment and retail businesses for the discretionary income in our target demographics. We might not be able to compete effectively in the future in the markets in which we operate. Competitors include companies that are larger and have greater resources than us and also may enter these markets to our detriment. These competitive conditions may limit our ability to increase dues without a material loss in membership, attract new members and attract and retain qualified personnel. Additionally, consolidation in the fitness club industry could result in increased competition among participants, particularly large multi-facility operators that are able to compete for attractive acquisition candidates or newly constructed club locations, thereby increasing costs associated with expansion through both acquisitions and lease negotiation and real estate availability for newly constructed club locations. 18 Table of Contents The number of competitor clubs that offer lower pricing and a lower level of service continue to grow in our markets. These clubs have attracted, and may continue to attract, members away from both our fitness-only clubs and our multi-recreational clubs, particularly in the current consumer environment. Furthermore, smaller and less expensive weight loss facilities present a competitive alternative for consumers. We also face competition from competitors offering comparable or higher pricing with higher levels of service or offerings. The trend to larger outer-suburban, multi-recreational family fitness centers, in areas where suitable real estate is more likely to be available, also compete against our suburban, fitness-only models. In addition, large competitors could enter the urban markets in which we operate to open a chain of clubs in these markets through one, or a series of, acquisitions. Our trademarks and trade names may be infringed, misappropriated or challenged by others. We believe our brand names and related intellectual property are important to our continued success. We seek to protect our trademarks, trade names and other intellectual property by exercising our rights under applicable trademark and copyright laws. If we were to fail to successfully protect our intellectual property rights for any reason, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any damage to our reputation could cause membership levels to decline and make it more difficult to attract new members. If we are unable to identify and acquire suitable sites for new clubs, our revenue growth rate and profits may be negatively impacted. To successfully expand our business over the long term, we must identify and acquire sites that meet our site selection criteria. In addition to finding sites with the right geographical, demographic and other measures we employ in our selection process, we also need to evaluate the penetration of our competitors in the market. We face competition from other health and fitness center operators for sites that meet our criteria and as a result, we may lose those sites or we could be forced to pay higher prices for those sites. If we are unable to identify and acquire sites for new clubs on attractive terms, our revenue, growth rate and profits may be negatively impacted. Additionally, if our analysis of the suitability of a site is incorrect, we may not be able to recover our capital investment in developing and building the new club. The opening of new clubs by us in existing markets may negatively impact our comparable club revenue growth and our operating margins. We currently operate clubs throughout the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States. In the case of existing markets, our experience has been that opening new clubs may attract some memberships away from other clubs already operated by us in those markets and diminish their revenues. In addition, as a result of new club openings in existing markets and because older clubs will represent an increasing proportion of our club base over time, our mature club revenue increases may be lower in future periods than in the past. Another result of opening new clubs is that our club operating margins may be lower than they have been historically while the clubs build a membership base. We expect both the addition of pre-opening expenses and the lower revenue volumes characteristic of newly opened clubs to affect our club operating margins at these new clubs. We may experience prolonged periods of losses in our recently opened clubs. Upon opening a club, we typically experience an initial period of club operating losses. Enrollment from pre-sold memberships typically generates insufficient revenue for the club to initially generate positive cash flow. As a result, a new club typically generates an operating loss in its first full year of operations and 19 Table of Contents substantially lower margins in its second full year of operations than a club opened for more than 24 months. These operating losses and lower margins will negatively impact our future results of operations. This negative impact will be increased by the initial expensing of pre-opening costs, which include legal and other costs associated with lease negotiations and permitting and zoning requirements, as well as depreciation and amortization expenses, which will further negatively impact our results of operations. We may, at our discretion, accelerate or expand our plans to open new clubs, which may temporarily adversely affect results from operations. We could be subject to claims related to health or safety risks at our clubs. Use of our clubs poses some potential health or safety risks to members or guests through physical exertion and use of our services and facilities, including exercise equipment. Claims might be asserted against us for injury suffered by, or death of members or guests while exercising at a club. We might not be able to successfully defend such claims. As a result, we might not be able to maintain our general liability insurance on acceptable terms in the future or maintain a level of insurance that would provide adequate coverage against potential claims. Depending upon the outcome, these matters may have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Security and privacy breaches may expose us to liability and cause us to lose customers. Federal and state law requires us to safeguard our customers’ financial information, including credit card information. Although we have established security procedures and protocol, including credit card industry compliance procedures, to protect against identity theft and the theft of our customers’ financial information, our security and testing measures may not prevent security breaches and breaches of our customers’ privacy may occur, which could harm our business. For example, a significant number of our users provide us with credit card and other confidential information and authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for our products and services. Typically, we rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to enhance transmission security of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, inadequate facility security or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect customer data. Any compromise of our security could harm our reputation or financial condition and, therefore, our business. In addition, a party who is able to circumvent our security measures or exploit inadequacies in our security measures, could, among other effects, misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruptions in our operations or expose customers to computer viruses or other disruptions. Actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. To the extent the measures we have taken prove to be insufficient or inadequate, we may become subject to litigation or administrative sanctions, which could result in significant fines, penalties or damages and harm to our reputation. Loss of key personnel and/or failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could make it more difficult for us to develop our business and enhance our financial performance. We are dependent on the continued services of our senior management team, including our Chief Executive Officer, Robert Giardina, our Chief Financial Officer, Dan Gallagher and our Chief Operating Officer, Terry Kew. We believe the loss of such key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us and our financial performance. Currently, we do not have any long-term employment agreements with our executive officers, and we may not be able to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel to meet our business needs. Terrorism and the uncertainty of armed conflicts may have a material adverse effect on clubs and our operating results. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York City and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other acts of violence or war may affect the markets in which we operate, our operating results or the market on which our common stock trades. Our geographic concentration in the major cities in the 20 Table of Contents Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions and, in particular, the New York City and Washington, D.C. areas, heightens our exposure to any such future terrorist attacks, which may adversely affect our clubs and result in a decrease in our revenues. The potential near-term and long-term effect these attacks may have for our members, the markets for our services and the market for our common stock are uncertain; however, their occurrence can be expected to further negatively affect the U.S. economy generally and specifically the regional markets in which we operate. The consequences of any terrorist attacks or any armed conflicts are unpredictable; and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business. Disruptions and failures involving our information systems could cause customer dissatisfaction and adversely affect our billing and other administrative functions. The continuing and uninterrupted performance of our information systems is critical to our success. We use a fully-integrated information system to process new memberships, bill members, check-in members and track and analyze sales and membership statistics, the frequency and timing of member workouts, cross-club utilization, member life, value-added services and demographic profiles by member. This system also assists us in evaluating staffing needs and program offerings. We believe that, without investing in enhancements, this system was approaching the end of its life cycle. Thus, in 2011, we began the process of replacing this system and continued the process throughout 2012. We plan to complete this transition in phases during 2013 and 2014. Correcting any disruptions or failures that affect our proprietary system could be difficult, time-consuming and expensive because we would need to use contracted consultants familiar with our system. Any failure of our current system could also cause us to lose members and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our members may become dissatisfied by any systems disruption or failure that interrupts our ability to provide our services to them. Disruptions or failures that affect our billing and other administrative functions could have an adverse affect on our operating results. Infrastructure changes are being undertaken to accommodate our growth, provide network redundancy, better manage telecommunications and data costs, increase efficiencies in operations and improve management of all components of our technical architecture. Fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, acts of terrorism and similar events could damage our systems. In addition, computer viruses, electronic break-ins or other similar disruptive problems could also adversely affect our sites. Any system disruption or failure, security breach or other damage that interrupts or delays our operations could cause us to lose members, damage our reputation, and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our growth could place strains on our management, employees, information systems and internal controls, which may adversely impact our business. Future expansion will place increased demands on our administrative, operational, financial and other resources. Any failure to manage growth effectively could seriously harm our business. To be successful, we will need to continue to improve management information systems and our operating, administrative, financial and accounting systems and controls. We will also need to train new employees and maintain close coordination among our executive, accounting, finance, marketing, sales and operations functions. These processes are time-consuming and expensive, increase management responsibilities and divert management attention. Our cash and cash equivalents are concentrated in a small number of banks. Our cash and cash equivalents are held, primarily, in a small number of commercial banks. These deposits are not collateralized. In the event these banks become insolvent, we would be unable to recover most of our cash and cash equivalents deposited at the banks. Cash and cash equivalents held in a small number of commercial banks as of December 31, 2012 totaled $37.0 million. During 2012, in any one month, this amount has been as high as approximately $109.5 million. 21 Table of Contents Regulatory changes in the terms of credit and debit card usage, including any existing or future regulatory requirements, could have an adverse effect on our business. Our business relies heavily on the use of credit and debit cards in sales transactions. Regulatory changes to existing rules or future regulatory requirements affecting the use of credit and debit cards or the fees charged could impact the consumer and financial institutions who provide card services. This may lead to an adverse impact on our business if the regulatory changes result in unfavorable terms to either the consumer or the banking institutions. Because of the capital-intensive nature of our business, we may have to incur additional indebtedness or issue new equity securities and, if we are not able to obtain additional capital, our ability to operate or expand our business may be impaired and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business requires significant levels of capital to finance the development of additional sites for new clubs and the construction of our clubs. If cash from available sources is insufficient or unavailable due to restrictive credit markets, or if cash is used for unanticipated needs, we may require additional capital sooner than anticipated. In the event that we are required or choose to raise additional funds, we may be unable to do so on favorable terms or at all. Furthermore, the cost of debt financing could significantly increase, making it cost-prohibitive to borrow, which could force us to issue new equity securities. If we issue new equity securities, existing shareholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to execute our current growth plans, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Any inability to raise additional capital when required could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results. We may incur rising costs related to construction of new clubs and maintaining our existing clubs. If we are not able to pass these cost increases through to our members, our returns may be adversely affected. Our clubs require significant upfront investment. If our investment is higher than we had planned, we may need to outperform our operational plan to achieve our targeted return. We cannot assure that we can offset cost increases by increasing our membership dues and other fees and improving profitability through cost efficiencies. We may be required to remit unclaimed property to states for unused, expired personal training sessions. We recognize revenue from personal training sessions as the services are performed (i.e., when the session is trained). Unused personal training sessions expire after a set, disclosed period of time after purchase and are not refundable or redeemable by the member for cash. The State of New York has informed us that it is considering whether we are required to remit the amount received by us for unused, expired personal training sessions to the State of New York as unclaimed property. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $13.4 million of unused and expired personal training sessions that had not been recognized as revenue and was recorded as deferred revenue. We do not believe that these amounts are subject to the escheatment or abandoned property laws of any jurisdiction, including the State of New York. However, it is possible that one or more of these jurisdictions may not agree with our position and may claim that we must remit all or a portion of these amounts to such jurisdiction. Our growth and profitability could be negatively impacted if we are unable to renew or replace our current club leases on favorable terms, or at all, and we cannot find suitable alternate locations. We currently lease substantially all of our fitness club locations pursuant to long-term leases (generally 15 to 25 years, including option periods). During the next five years, or the period from January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2017, we have leases for 11 club locations that are due to expire without any renewal options, one of which expires in 2013, and 46 club locations that are due to expire with renewal options. For leases with 22 Table of Contents renewal options, several of them provide for our unilateral option to renew for additional rental periods at specific rental rates (for example, based on the consumer price index or stated renewal terms already set in the leases) or based on the fair market rate at the location. Our ability to negotiate favorable terms on an expiring lease or to negotiate favorable terms on leases with renewal options, or conversely for a suitable alternate location, could depend on conditions in the real estate market, competition for desirable properties and our relationships with current and prospective landlords or may depend on other factors that are not within our control. Any or all of these factors and conditions could negatively impact our revenue, growth and profitability. Risks Related to Our Leverage and Our Indebtedness On May 11, 2011, TSI, LLC entered into a $350.0 million senior secured credit facility (“2011 Senior Credit Facility”). The 2011 Senior Credit Facility consists of a $300.0 million term loan facility (“2011 Term Loan Facility”), and a $50.0 million revolving loan facility (“2011 Revolving Loan Facility”). The 2011 Senior Credit Facility was amended in August 2012 primarily to reduce interest rates on the 2011 Term Loan Facility and further amended in November 2012 to allow for a $60.0 million incremental term loan which was used together with available cash-on-hand to fund our special dividend payment on December 11, 2012. The 2011 Term Loan Facility matures on May 11, 2018, and the 2011 Revolving Loan Facility matures on May 11, 2016. We may be negatively affected by economic conditions in the U.S. and key international markets. We must maintain liquidity to fund our working capital, service our outstanding indebtedness and finance investment opportunities. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations or we may not be able to pursue new business opportunities. If our current resources do not satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may have to seek additional financing. The principal sources of our liquidity are funds generated from operating activities, available cash and cash equivalents and borrowings under our $50.0 million 2011 Revolving Loan Facility. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption in the recent past. As a result, one or more of our current lenders could experience financial difficulty, and as a result fail to provide the required lending amounts under our 2011 Revolving Loan Facility. If this should occur, we may need to seek additional financing from other sources. The availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as economic and market conditions, the availability of credit and our credit ratings, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of the prospects of our Company or the fitness industry in general. We may not be able to successfully obtain any necessary additional financing on favorable terms, or financing altogether. Economic conditions, both domestic and foreign, may affect our financial performance. Prevailing economic conditions, including unemployment levels, inflation, availability of credit, energy costs and other macro-economic factors, as well as uncertainty about future economic conditions, adversely affect consumer spending and, consequently, our business and results of operations. Our leverage may impair our financial condition, and we may incur significant additional debt. We currently have a substantial amount of debt. As of December 31, 2012, our total outstanding consolidated debt was $315.7 million. Our substantial debt could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions of clubs and other general corporate requirements; 23 Table of Contents • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of interest on our debt, which is variable on our 2011 Revolving Loan Facility and partially variable on our 2011 Term Loan Facility, and/or principal pursuant to excess cash flow requirements and reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions of new clubs and general corporate requirements; • increasing our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations in connection with borrowings under our 2011 Senior Credit Facility, some of which are at variable interest rates; • limiting our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. These limitations and consequences may place us at a competitive disadvantage to other less-leveraged competitors. In addition, as of December 31, 2012, we had $43.9 million of unutilized borrowings under our 2011 Revolving Loan Facility. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they currently face could intensify. The current debt under the 2011 Senior Credit Facility has a floating interest rate and an increase in interest rates may negatively impact our financial results. Interest rates applicable to our debt are expected to fluctuate based on economic and market factors that are beyond our control. In particular, the unhedged portion of our outstanding debt under our 2011 Senior Credit Facility has a floating interest rate. Any significant increase in market interest rates, and in particular the short-term Eurodollar rates, would result in a significant increase in interest expense on our debt, which could negatively impact our net income and cash flows. The Company may be unsuccessful in its efforts to effectively hedge against interest rate changes on our variable rate debt. In its normal operations, the Company is exposed to market risk relating to fluctuations in interest rates. In order to minimize the negative impact of such fluctuations on the Company’s cash flows, the Company may enter into derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps. The Company’s current interest rate swap arrangement is with one financial institution and covers $160.0 million of our current $315.7 million outstanding term loan principal balance with the swap expiring on May 13, 2015. We are exposed to credit risk if the counterparty to the agreement is not able to perform on its obligations. Additionally, a failure on our part to effectively hedge against interest rate changes may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required to record the interest rate swap at its fair value. Changes in interest rates can significantly impact the valuation of the instrument resulting in non-cash changes to our financial position. Covenant restrictions under our indebtedness may limit our ability to operate our business and, in such an event, we may not have sufficient assets to settle our indebtedness. Our 2011 Senior Credit Facility and certain other agreements regarding our indebtedness contain, among other things, covenants that may restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities and that may impact our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: • borrow money; • pay dividends or make distributions; • purchase or redeem stock; 24 Table of Contents • make investments and extend credit; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • engage in sale-leaseback transactions; • consummate certain asset sales; • effect a consolidation or merger or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • create liens on our assets. In addition, the 2011 Senior Credit Facility requires the Company, on a consolidated basis, to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests that may require us to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. The 2011 Senior Credit Facility requires the Company, on a consolidated basis, to maintain a maximum total leverage ratio not greater than 4.50:1.00 as of December 31, 2012; an interest expense coverage ratio of no less than 2.00:1.00; and a covenant that limits capital expenditures to $40.0 million for the four quarters ending in any quarter during which the total leverage ratio is greater than 3.00:1.00 and to $50.0 million for the four quarters ending in any quarter during which the total leverage ratio is less than or equal to 3.00 to 1.00 but greater than 2.50:1.00. This covenant does not limit capital expenditures if the total leverage ratio is less than or equal to 2.50:1.00. We were in compliance with these covenants as of December 31, 2012 with a total leverage ratio of 3.00:1.00 and an interest coverage ratio of 4.22:1.00. Our total capital expenditures for full-year 2012 were $22.5 million. Events beyond our control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, may affect our ability to meet certain financial ratios and financial condition tests. We may be unable to meet those tests and the lenders may decide not to waive any failure to meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the 2011 Senior Credit Facility. If an event of default under the 2011 Senior Credit Facility occurs, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If any such event should occur, we might not have sufficient assets to pay our indebtedness and meet our other obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 