ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained herein as well as the information included in this Annual Report in evaluating our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, other than those we describe below, that are not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. You should refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Risks Relating to Our Business We Have a History Of Losses Which May Continue, Which May Negatively Impact Our Ability to Achieve Our Business Objectives. We incurred net losses of $2,140,101 and $13,770,485 for the years ended January 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We cannot assure you that we can achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our operations are subject to the risks and competition inherent in the establishment of a business enterprise. There can be no assurance that future operations will be profitable. Revenues and profits, if any, will depend upon various factors, including whether we will be able to continue expansion of our revenue. We may not achieve our business objectives and the failure to achieve such goals would have an adverse impact on us. Natural gas and oil drilling is a speculative activity and involves numerous risks and substantial and uncertain costs that could adversely affect us. An investment in us should be considered speculative due to the nature of our involvement in the exploration for, and the acquisition, development and production of, oil and natural gas in North America. Oil and gas operations involve many risks, which even a combination of experience and knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. There is no assurance that commercial quantities of oil and natural gas will be discovered or acquired by us. 9 We depend on successful exploration, development and acquisitions to maintain reserves and revenue in the future. Acquisitions of crude oil and natural gas issuers and crude oil and natural gas assets are typically based on engineering and economic assessments made by independent engineers and our own assessments. These assessments will include a series of assumptions regarding such factors as recoverability and marketability of crude oil and natural gas, future prices of crude oil and natural gas and operating costs, future capital expenditures and royalties and other government levies which will be imposed over the producing life of the reserves. Many of these factors are subject to change and are beyond our control. In particular, the prices of and markets for oil and natural gas products may change from those anticipated at the time of making such assessment. In addition, all such assessments involve a measure of geologic and engineering uncertainty that could result in lower production and reserves than anticipated. Initial assessments of acquisitions may be based on reports by a firm of independent engineers that are not the same as the firm that we use for our year-end reserve evaluations. Because each of these firms may have different evaluation methods and approaches, these initial assessments may differ significantly from the assessments of the firm used by us. In addition, our review of records and properties of potential acquisitions may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will we necessarily become sufficiently familiar with the properties before we acquire them to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Environmental problems, such as soil or ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection on a well is undertaken and even when problems are identified, we may often assume certain environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties. As most of our properties are in the exploration stage, there can be no assurance that we will establish commercial discoveries on our properties. Exploration for economic reserves of oil and gas is subject to a number of risk factors. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing oil and/or gas wells. Most of our properties are in the exploration stage only and we have only limited revenues from operations. While we do have a limited amount of production of gas, we may not establish commercial discoveries on any of our properties. Failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot control the activities on properties we do not operate and are unable to ensure their proper operation and profitability. We do not operate some of the properties in which we have an interest. As a result, we have limited ability to exercise influence over, and control the risks associated with, operations of these properties. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations, an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements or an operator’s failure to act in ways that are in our best interests could reduce our production and revenues. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator’s timing and amount of capital expenditures, expertise and financial resources, inclusion of other participants in drilling wells and use of technology. We have a limited operating history in the Bakken Shale play in North Dakota and if we are not successful in continuing to grow our business, then we may have to scale back or even cease our ongoing business operations. We have a limited operating history in the Bakken Shale play in North Dakota. Our success is significantly dependent on a successful acquisition, drilling, completion and production program. Our operations in the Bakken Shale play will be subject to all the risks inherent in the establishment of a developing enterprise and the uncertainties arising from the absence of a significant operating history. We may be unable to locate recoverable reserves or operate on a profitable basis. We are in the exploration stage and potential investors should be aware of the difficulties normally encountered by enterprises in the exploration stage. If our business plan is not successful, and we are not able to operate profitably, investors may lose some or all of their investment. 10 Our lack of diversification will increase the risk of an investment in us, and our financial condition and results of operations may deteriorate if we fail to diversify. Our current business focus is on the oil and gas industry in a limited number of properties, initially in North Dakota. Larger companies have the ability to manage their risk by diversification. However, we currently lack diversification, in terms of both the nature and geographic scope of our business. As a result, we will likely be impacted more acutely by factors affecting our industry or the regions in which we operate, such as the Bakken Shale play, than we would if our business were more diversified, enhancing our risk profile. We have substantial capital requirements that, if not met, may hinder our operations. We anticipate that we will make substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves in the future and for future drilling programs, including our obligations to Slawson under the Slawson Agreement. If we have insufficient revenues, we may have limited ability to expend the capital necessary to undertake or complete future drilling programs. There can be no assurance that debt or equity financing, or cash generated by operations will be available or sufficient to meet these requirements or for other corporate purposes, or if debt or equity financing is available, that it will be on terms acceptable to us. Moreover, future activities may require us to alter our capitalization significantly. Our inability to access sufficient capital for our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Because we are small and have limited access to additional capital, we may have to limit our exploration activity, which may result in a loss of investment. We have a small asset base and limited access to additional capital. Accordingly, we must limit our exploration activity. As such, we may not be able to complete an exploration program that is as thorough as our management would like. In that event, existing reserves may go undiscovered. Without finding reserves, we cannot generate revenues and investors may lose their investment. We face strong competition from other oil and gas companies. We encounter competition from other oil and gas companies in all areas of our operations, including the acquisition of exploratory prospects and proven properties. Our competitors include major oil and gas companies and numerous independent oil and gas companies, individuals and drilling and income programs. Many of our competitors have been engaged in the oil and gas business much longer than we have and possess substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than us. These companies may be able to pay more for exploratory projects and productive oil and gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may be able to expend greater resources on the existing and changing technologies that we believe are and will be increasingly important to attaining success in the industry. Such competitors may also be in a better position to secure oilfield services and equipment on a timely basis or on favorable terms. We may not be able to conduct our operations, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions successfully in this highly competitive environment. Current global financial conditions have been characterized by increased volatility which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity and financial condition. Current global financial conditions and recent market events have been characterized by increased volatility and the resulting tightening of the credit and capital markets has reduced the amount of available liquidity and overall economic activity. There can be no assurance that debt or equity financing, the ability to borrow funds or cash generated by operations will be available or sufficient to meet or satisfy our initiatives, objectives or requirements. Our inability to access sufficient amounts of capital on terms acceptable to us for our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity and financial condition. The potential profitability of oil and gas properties depends upon factors beyond our control. The potential profitability of oil and gas properties is dependent upon many factors beyond our control. For instance, world prices and markets for oil and gas are unpredictable, highly volatile, potentially subject to governmental fixing, pegging, controls, or any combination of these and other factors, and respond to changes in domestic, international, political, social, and economic environments. Additionally, due to worldwide economic uncertainty, the availability and cost of funds for production and other expenses have become increasingly difficult, if not impossible, to project. These changes and events may materially affect our financial performance. In addition, a productive well may become uneconomic in the event that water or other deleterious substances are encountered which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well. In addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is impregnated with water or other deleterious substances. These factors cannot be accurately predicted and the combination of these factors may result in us not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. 11 Seasonal weather conditions and other factors could adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities. Our operations could be adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and wildlife restrictions on federal leases. In some areas, certain drilling and other oil and gas activities can only be conducted during limited times of the year, typically during the summer months. This would limit our ability to operate in these areas and could intensify competition during those times for drilling rigs, oil field equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs, which could have a material adverse effect upon us and our results of operations. If we are unable to retain the services of Messrs. Hill and Samuels or if we are unable to successfully recruit qualified managerial and field personnel having experience in oil and gas exploration, we may not be able to continue our operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of our directors and officers and, in particular: Peter Hill, our Chief Executive Officer and Jonathan Samuels, our Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary. Loss of the services of Messrs. Hill and Samuels could have a material adverse effect on our growth, revenues, and prospective business. We have not and do not expect to obtain key man insurance on our management. In addition, in order to successfully implement and manage our business plan, we will be dependent upon, among other things, successfully recruiting qualified managerial and field personnel having experience in the oil and gas exploration business. Competition for qualified individuals is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to find, attract and retain existing employees or that we will be able to find, attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. The marketability of natural resources will be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. The markets and prices for oil and gas depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for oil and gas, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions, and other factors, including: · worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and gas; · actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; · political conditions and events (including instability or armed conflict) in oil-producing or gas-producing regions; · the level of global and domestic oil and gas inventories; · the price and level of foreign imports; · the level of consumer demand; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · the availability of pipeline or other takeaway capacity; · weather conditions; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and · the overall worldwide and domestic economic environment. Significant declines in oil and gas prices for an extended period may have the following effects on our business: · adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations; · cause us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects; · reduce our revenues, operating income and cash flow; and · limit our access to sources of capital. 12 We may have difficulty distributing our oil and gas production, which could harm our financial condition. In order to sell the oil and gas that we are able to produce, we may have to make arrangements for storage and distribution to the market. We will rely on local infrastructure and the availability of transportation for storage and shipment of our products, but infrastructure development and storage and transportation facilities may be insufficient for our needs at commercially acceptable terms in the localities in which we operate. This situation could be particularly problematic to the extent that our operations are conducted in remote areas that are difficult to access, such as areas that are distant from shipping and/or pipeline facilities. These factors may affect our ability to explore and develop properties and to store and transport our oil and gas production and may increase our expenses. Furthermore, weather conditions or natural disasters, actions by companies doing business in one or more of the areas in which we will operate, or labor disputes may impair the distribution of oil and/or gas and in turn diminish our financial condition or ability to maintain our operations. Our significant shareholders may have substantial influence over our business and affairs. As of April 6, 2010, Cambrian Capital, Palo Alto Investors, and Sprott Asset Management each own greater than 10% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, each these three investors individually will have substantial influence over the outcome of certain matters requiring shareholder approval, including the power to, among other things: · amend our articles of incorporation; · elect and remove our directors and control the appointment of our senior management; and · prevent our ability to be acquired and complete other significant corporate transactions. Oil and gas operations are subject to comprehensive regulation which may cause substantial delays or require capital outlays in excess of those anticipated, causing an adverse effect on us. Oil and gas operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including laws regulating removal of natural resources from the ground and the discharge of materials into the environment. Oil and gas operations are also subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations which seek to maintain health and safety standards by regulating the design and use of drilling methods and equipment. Various permits from government bodies are required for drilling operations to be conducted; no assurance can be given that such permits will be received. Further, hydraulic fracturing, the process used for releasing natural gas from shale rock, has recently come under increased scrutiny and could be the subject of further regulation that could impact the timing and cost of development. Exploration activities are subject to certain environmental regulations which may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of our operations. In general, our exploration activities are subject to certain federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. Such laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material effect on our operations or financial condition to date. Specifically, we are subject to legislation regarding emissions into the environment, water discharges and storage and disposition of hazardous wastes. In addition, legislation has been enacted which requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities. However, such laws and regulations are frequently changed and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance. Generally, environmental requirements do not appear to affect us any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than other companies in the industry. With the introduction of the Kyoto Protocol, oil and gas producers may be required to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This could result in, among other things, increased operating and capital expenditures for those producers. This could also make certain production of crude oil or natural gas by those producers uneconomic, resulting in reductions in such production. We are unable to predict the effect on our future earnings of the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol by the Canadian Federal Government. However, in order to mitigate this risk, we are committed to maximizing shareholder value in an environmentally, socially responsible and safe manner. 13 We believe that our operations comply, in all material respects, with all applicable environmental regulations. Our operating partners generally maintain insurance coverage customary to the industry; however, we are not fully insured against all possible environmental risks. Exploratory drilling involves many risks and we may become liable for pollution or other liabilities which may have an adverse effect on our financial position. Drilling operations generally involve a high degree of risk. Hazards such as unusual or unexpected geological formations, power outages, labor disruptions, blow-outs, sour gas leakage, fire, inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labor, and other risks are involved. We may become subject to liability for pollution or hazards against which we cannot adequately insure or for which we may elect not to insure. Incurring any such liability may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operations. Any change in government regulation and/or administrative practices may have a negative impact on our ability to operate and on our profitability. The laws, regulations, policies or current administrative practices of any government body, organization or regulatory agency in the U.S. or Canada or any other jurisdiction may be changed, applied or interpreted in a manner which will fundamentally alter our ability to carry on our business. The actions, policies or regulations, or changes thereto, of any government body or regulatory agency, or other special interest groups, may have a detrimental effect on us. Any or all of these situations may have a negative impact on our ability to operate and/or our profitability. Aboriginal claims could have an adverse effect on us and our operations. Aboriginal peoples have claimed aboriginal title and rights to portions of Canada. We are not aware that any claims have been made in respect of our property and assets. However, if a claim arose and was successful, it could have an adverse effect on us and our operations. No assurance can be given that defects in our title to natural gas and oil interests do not exist. Title to natural gas and oil interests is often not possible to determine without incurring substantial expense. An independent title review was completed with respect to certain of the more valuable natural gas and oil rights acquired by us and the interests in natural gas and oil rights owned by us. Also, legal opinions have been obtained with respect to the spacing units for the wells which have been drilled to date and which have been operated by us. However, no assurance can be given that title defects do not exist. If a title defect does exist, it is possible that we may lose all or a portion of the properties to which the title defect relates. Our actual interest in certain properties may therefore vary from our records. Risks Relating to our Common Stock If we fail to remain current in our reporting requirements, we could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board and/or the TSX Venture Exchange which would limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. Companies trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, such as us, must be reporting issuers under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and must be current in their reports under Section 13, in order to maintain price quotation privileges on the OTC Bulletin Board. We are also listed on the TSX Venture Exchange. In order to remain listed on the TSX Venture Exchange, we must remain a reporting issuer in good standing in each jurisdiction in which we are a reporting issuer. We are a reporting issuer in each of British Columbia, Alberta and Ontario and have continuous disclosure obligations under securities laws and regulations in those jurisdictions (arising primarily under National Instrument 51-102). If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements, we could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board and/or the TSX Venture Exchange. As a result, the market liquidity for our securities could be severely adversely affected by limiting the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. 14 The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. Some of the factors that could negatively affect such share price include: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; · liquidity; · sales of common stock by our shareholders; · changes in oil and natural gas prices; · changes in our cash flows from operations or earnings estimates; · publication of research reports about us or the exploration and production industry generally; · increases in market interest rates which may increase our cost of capital; · changes in applicable laws or regulations, court rulings and enforcement and legal actions; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; · additions or departures of key management personnel; · actions by our shareholders; · commencement of or involvement in litigation; · news reports relating to trends, concerns, technological or competitive developments, regulatory changes and other related issues in our industry; · speculation in the press or investment community regarding our business; · general market and economic conditions; and · domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. Financial markets have recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of companies and that have, in many cases, been unrelated to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. Accordingly, the market price of our common stock may decline even if our operating results, underlying asset values or prospects have not changed. Additionally, these factors, as well as other related factors, may cause decreases in asset values that are deemed to be other than temporary. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not expect to declare or pay any cash or other dividends in the foreseeable future on our common stock, as we intend to use cash flow generated by operations to develop our business. Our common stock is subject to the “penny stock” rules of the SEC and the trading market in our securities is limited, which makes transactions in our common stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our common stock. The SEC has adopted Rule 3a51-1 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that (i) has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, or (ii) is not registered on a national securities exchange or listed on an automated quotation system sponsored by a national securities exchange. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act requires: · that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and · the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: · obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and · make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. 15 The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: · sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and · attests that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading, and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative. Current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies and to be available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of the Common Shares and cause a decline in the market value of the Common Shares. Investors may be unable to enforce Canadian statutory remedies against us. Securities legislation in certain of the Provinces and Territories of Canada provides investors with various rights and remedies where a public disclosure contains a misrepresentation. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Nevada. It may be difficult for investors to collect from us judgments obtained in courts in Canada predicated on the civil liability provisions of Canadian securities legislation. Investors may be unable to enforce judgments against us and certain of our directors and officers. Certain of our directors and officers, as well as our independent auditors, reside principally in Canada. Because a portion of our assets and all or substantially all of the assets of these persons are located outside the U.S., it may not be possible for you to effect service of process within the U.S. upon us or those persons. Furthermore it may not be possible for you to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the U.S. against us or those persons. There is doubt as to the enforceability in original actions in Canadian courts of liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws, and as to the enforceability in Canadian courts of judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Therefore, it may not be possible to enforce those actions against us and certain of our directors and officers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 