Item 1A. Risk Factors the board of directors, and Windstream’s common stockholders should be aware that they have no contractual or other legal right to dividends. In addition, the other risk factors described in this section could materially reduce the cash available from operations or significantly increase our capital expenditure requirements, and these outcomes could cause capital to not be available when needed in an amount sufficient to support our current dividend practice. The amount of dividends that Windstream may distribute is also limited by restricted payment and leverage covenants in Windstream’s credit facilities and indentures, and, potentially, the terms of any future indebtedness that Windstream may incur. The amount of dividends that Windstream may distribute is also subject to restrictions under Delaware law. If Windstream’s board of directors were to adopt a change in its current dividend practice that resulted in a reduction in the amount of dividends, such change could have a material and adverse effect on the market price of Windstream’s common stock. In addition, the American Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 designated qualifying dividend payments on capital stock as long term capital gains, which capped the federal tax rate on these payments at 15 percent. The provisions of this act are set to expire January 1, 2011, and if not renewed, dividends will become taxable as ordinary income to the shareholder at their current federal tax rate. This could adversely effect the market price of Windstream’s common stock by decreasing the after tax yield of holding the stock. Windstream’s data center migration could result in a material disruption to our operations. Windstream currently outsources the data center for its information technology (“IT”) systems and internet service provider systems to a third party under a contract ending June 30, 2010. During 2009, our third party service provider provided notice that this contract will not be renewed, and Windstream will be required to relocate each of these data centers to a new location and service provider. The data center services to be migrated include managed mainframe services, output processing, IT support services, and data storage, which support most of Windstream’s IT systems including billing, financial reporting, customer service, and assignment and provisioning. While this data center migration is a complex process, Windstream believes that it has sufficient time and resources to complete a successful migration. However, our inability to complete this migration successfully could result in a material disruption in our ability to service customers, process bills and perform other support services and could thereby adversely affect our business, revenue and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments No reportable information under this item. 