Item 1A. Risk Factors We face a variety of risks that are inherent in our business and our industry, including operational, legal and regulatory risks. The following are the known, material risks that could affect our business and our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business The volatility of oil and natural gas prices greatly affects our profitability. Our revenues, operating results, profitability, future rate of growth and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties depend primarily upon the prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have been volatile and are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. Any substantial decline in the price of oil and natural gas will likely have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and level of expenditures for the development of our oil and natural gas reserves, and may result in further write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties as a result of our use of the full cost accounting method. Wide fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control, including: • worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and natural gas; • speculation in the price of commodities in the commodity futures market; • weather conditions; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the availability of drilling rigs and completion equipment; • the availability of pipeline capacity; • the price and volume of foreign imports; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions; and • the overall economic environment. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Oil and natural gas prices could decline to a point where it would be uneconomic for us to sell our oil and natural gas at those prices, which could result in a decision to shut in production until the prices increase. Our oil and natural gas properties will become uneconomic when oil and natural prices decline to the point at which our revenues are insufficient to recover our lifting costs. For example, in 2009, our average lifting costs were approximately $16.82 per Boe, or $2.80 per Mcf. A market price decline below that price would result in our having to shut in certain production until prices increase. 7 Table of Contents A continued decline of oil and natural gas prices or a prolonged period of reduced oil and natural gas prices could result in a decrease in our exploration and development expenditures, which could negatively impact our future production. We currently expect to have sufficient cash flows from operations to meet our projected non-acquisition capital expenditure needs for 2010. However, if oil and natural gas prices decline or reduce to lower levels for a prolonged period of time, we may be unable to continue to fund capital expenditures at historical levels due to the decreased cash flows that will result from such reduced oil and natural gas prices. Additionally, a continuing decline in oil and natural gas prices or a prolonged period of lower oil and natural gas prices could result in a reduction of our borrowing base under our current credit facility, which will further reduce the availability of cash to fund our operations. As a result, we may have to reduce our capital expenditures in future years. A decrease in our capital expenditures will likely result in a decrease in our production levels. Continued weakness in economic conditions or uncertainty in financial markets may have material adverse impacts on our business that we cannot predict. U.S. and global economies and financial systems have recently experienced turmoil and upheaval characterized by extreme volatility and declines in prices of securities, diminished liquidity and credit availability, inability to access capital markets, the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of financial institutions, increased levels of unemployment, and an unprecedented level of intervention by the U.S. federal government and other governments. Although some portions of the economy appear to have stabilized and there have been signs of the beginning of recovery, the extent and timing of a recovery, and whether it can be sustained, are uncertain. Continued weakness in the U.S. or global economies could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. For example: • the demand for oil and natural gas in the U.S. has declined and may remain at low levels or further decline if economic conditions remain weak, and continue to negatively impact our revenues, margins, profitability, operating cash flows, liquidity and financial condition; • the tightening of credit or lack of credit availability to our customers could adversely affect our ability to collect our trade receivables; • our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital for our business, including for exploration and/or development of our reserves; and • our commodity hedging arrangements could become ineffective if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations or seek bankruptcy protection. Oil and natural gas prices have declined significantly in 2009 as compared to 2008 and may continue to decline. Our profitability is directly related to the prices we receive for the sale of the oil and natural gas we produce. In early July 2008, commodity prices reached record levels in excess of $140.00 per barrel for crude oil and $13.00 per Mcf for natural gas. The 2008 year ended with market prices dropping to $44.00 for crude oil and $4.00 for natural gas, a 69% to 73% decline from the earlier highs. As of December 31, 2009, market prices were in the range of $72.00 for crude oil and $4.00 for natural gas. Our success depends on acquiring or finding additional reserves. Our future success depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Our proved reserves will generally decline as reserves are produced, except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration or development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. To increase reserves and production, we must commence exploratory drilling, undertake other replacement activities or utilize third parties to accomplish these activities. There can be no assurance, however, that we will have sufficient resources to undertake these actions, that our exploratory projects or other replacement activities will result in significant additional reserves or that we will succeed in 8 Table of Contents drilling productive wells at low finding and development costs. Furthermore, although our revenues may increase if prevailing oil and natural gas prices increase significantly, our finding costs for additional reserves could also increase. In accordance with customary industry practice, we rely in part on independent third party service providers to provide most of the services necessary to drill new wells, including drilling rigs and related equipment and services, horizontal drilling equipment and services, trucking services, tubular goods, fracing and completion services and production equipment. The oil and natural gas industry has experienced significant volatility in cost for these services in recent years and this trend is expected to continue into the future. Any future cost increases could significantly increase our development costs and decrease the return possible from drilling and development activities, and possibly render the development of certain proved undeveloped reserves uneconomical. The actual quantities and present values of our proved oil and natural gas reserves may be less than we have estimated. This report and other SEC filings by us contain estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves and the estimated future net revenues from those reserves. These estimates are based on various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes, timing of operations, and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. The process involves significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering, and economic data for each reservoir. These estimates are dependent on many variables, and therefore changes often occur as these variables evolve. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, production taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses, and quantities of producible oil and natural gas reserves will most likely vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities of and present values related to proved reserves disclosed by us, and the actual quantities and present values may be less than we have previously estimated. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development activity, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, costs to develop and operate properties, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production on adjacent properties. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 43%, or 14.6 MMBoe, of our estimated proved reserves were proved undeveloped, and approximately 5%, or 1.7 MMBoe, were proved developed non-producing. In order to develop our proved undeveloped reserves, we estimate approximately $135.0 million of capital expenditures would be required. Production revenues from proved developed non-producing reserves will not be realized until sometime in the future and after some investment of capital. In order to bring production on-line for our proved developed non-producing reserves, we estimate capital expenditures of approximately $6.4 million will be required. The estimated abandonment costs associated with our Louisiana production facilities make up the balance of our anticipated capital expenditures. Although we have estimated our reserves and the costs associated with these reserves in accordance with industry standards, estimated costs may not be accurate, development may not occur as scheduled and actual results may not occur as estimated. You should not assume that the PV-10 value and standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows included in this report represent the current market value of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. Management has based the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves on price and cost assumptions required by the SEC, whereas actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. For example, our proved reserves and PV-10 Values as of December 31, 2009, were estimated using the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price of $61.18 per Bbl of oil (NYMEX West Texas Intermediate settle price) and $3.87 per Mcf of natural gas (Platts Henry Hub spot price). We then 9 Table of Contents adjust these base prices to reflect appropriate basis, quality, and location differentials over that period in estimating our proved reserves. During 2009, our monthly average realized oil prices, excluding the effect of hedging, were as high as $75.28 per Bbl and as low as $33.18 per Bbl. For the same period, our monthly average realized natural gas prices before hedging were as high as $5.23 per Mcf and as low as $2.66 per Mcf. Many other factors will affect actual future net cash flows, including: • Amount and timing of actual production; • Supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • Curtailments or increases in consumption by oil purchasers and natural gas pipelines; and • Changes in government regulations or taxes. The timing of production from oil and natural gas properties and of related expenses affects the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. Our actual future net cash flows could be less than the estimated future net cash flows for purposes of computing PV-10 Values. In addition, the ten percent discount factor required by the SEC to be used to calculate PV-10 Values for reporting purposes is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor given actual interest rates, costs of capital, and other risks to which our business and the oil and natural gas industry in general are subject. Reserve estimates as of December 31, 2009, have been prepared under the SEC’s new rules for oil and gas reporting that are effective for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009. These new rules require SEC reporting companies to prepare their reserve estimates using, among other things, revised reserve definitions and revised pricing based on 12-month unweighted first-day-of-the-month average pricing, instead of the prior requirement to use pricing at the end of the period. The SEC has released only limited interpretive guidance regarding reporting of reserve estimates under the new rules and may not issue further interpretive guidance on the new rules in the near future. The interpretation of these rules and their applicability in different situations remains unclear in many respects. Changing interpretations of the rules or disagreements with our interpretations could result in revisions to our reserve estimates or write-downs in our reserves. We expect to obtain a substantial portion of our funds for property acquisitions and for the drilling and development of our oil and natural gas properties through a combination of cash flows from operations and borrowings. If such borrowed funds were not available to us, or if the terms upon which such funds would be available to us were unfavorable, our ability to acquire oil and natural gas properties, the further development of our oil and natural gas reserves, and our financial condition and results of operations, could be adversely affected. We expect to fund a substantial portion of our future property acquisitions and our drilling and development operations with a combination of cash flows from operations and borrowed funds. To the extent such borrowed funds are not available to us at all, or if the terms under which such funds would be available to us would be unfavorable, our ability to acquire oil and natural gas properties and the further development of our oil and natural gas reserves could be adversely impacted. In such events, we may be unable to replace our reserves of oil and natural gas which, subsequently, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The continued tightness in the financial and credit markets may expose us to counterparty risk with respect to our sales of oil and natural gas. We sell our crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids to a variety of purchasers. Some of these parties are not as creditworthy as we are and may experience liquidity problems. Nonperformance by a trade creditor could result in our incurring losses. 10 Table of Contents The soundness of financial institutions could place our cash deposits at risk. Current market conditions also elevate the concern over our cash accounts, which total approximately $0.1 million, as of December 31, 2009. Our cash investments and deposits with any financial institution that exceed the amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are at risk in the event one of these financial institutions should fail. Operating hazards and uninsured risks may result in substantial losses. Our operations are subject to all of the hazards and operating risks inherent in drilling for, and the production of, oil and natural gas, including the risk of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards such as oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases. The occurrence of any of these events could result in substantial losses to us due to injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. There can be no assurance that any insurance will be adequate to cover any losses or liabilities. We cannot predict the continued availability of insurance, or its availability at premium levels that justify its purchase. In addition, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by previous owners of properties purchased by us, which liabilities would not be covered by our insurance. Our operations are subject to various governmental regulations that require compliance that can be burdensome and expensive. Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local governmental regulations that may be changed from time to time in response to economic and political conditions. Matters subject to regulation include discharge from drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity to conserve supplies of oil and natural gas. In addition, the production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and natural gas, by-products thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with oil and natural gas operations are subject to regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment. These laws and regulations have continually imposed increasingly strict requirements for water and air pollution control and solid waste management, and compliance with these laws may cause delays in the additional drilling and development of our properties. Significant expenditures may be required to comply with governmental laws and regulations applicable to us. We believe the trend of more expansive and stricter environmental legislation and regulations will continue. While historically we have not experienced any material adverse effect from regulatory delays, there can be no assurance that such delays will not occur in the future. Unusual weather patterns or natural disasters, whether due to climate change or otherwise, could negatively impact our financial condition. Our business depends, in part, on normal weather patterns across the United States Natural gas demand and prices are particularly susceptible to seasonal weather trends. Warmer than usual winters can result in reduced demand and high season-end storage volumes, which can depress prices to unacceptably low levels. In addition, because a majority of our properties are located in Texas, Louisiana and Oklahoma, our operations are constantly at risk of extreme adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes and tornadoes. Any unusual or prolonged adverse weather patterns in our areas of operations or markets, whether due to climate change or otherwise, could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and cash flow. In addition, our business, financial condition and cash flow could be adversely affected if the businesses of our key vendors, purchasers, contractors, suppliers or transportation service providers were disrupted due to severe weather, such as hurricanes or floods, whether due to climate change or otherwise. 11 Table of Contents Climate change and government laws and regulations related to climate change could negatively impact our financial condition. In addition to other climate-related risks set forth in this “Risk Factors” section, we are and will be, directly and indirectly, subject to the effects of climate change and may, directly or indirectly, be affected by government laws and regulations related to climate change. We cannot predict with any degree of certainty what effect, if any, possible climate change and government laws and regulations related to climate change will have on our operations, whether directly or indirectly. While we believe that it is difficult to assess the timing and effect of climate change and pending legislation and regulation related to climate change on our business, we believe that climate change and government laws and regulations related to climate change may affect, directly or indirectly, (i) the cost of the equipment and services we purchase, (ii) our ability to continue to operate as we have in the past, including drilling, completion and operating methods, (iii) the timeliness of delivery of the materials and services we need and the cost of transportation paid by us and our vendors and other providers of services, (iv) insurance premiums, deductibles and the availability of coverage, and (v) the cost of utility services, particularly electricity, in connection with the operation of our properties. In addition, climate change may increase the likelihood of property damage and the disruption of our operations, especially in coastal states. As a result, our financial condition could be negatively impacted by significant climate change and related governmental regulation, and that impact could be material. Regulation and recent court decisions related to greenhouse gas emissions could have an adverse effect on our operations and demand for oil and natural gas. The U.S. Congress is actively considering legislation to reduce emissions of “greenhouse gases,” including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide among others, which some recent studies have suggested may be contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere. In addition, several states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. As a result of the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision on April 2, 2007 in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA, 549 U.S. 497 (2007), finding that greenhouse gases fall within the Clean Air Act (“CAA”) definition of “air pollutant,” the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) was required to determine whether emissions of greenhouse gases “endanger” public health or welfare. In April 2009, EPA proposed a finding of such endangerment. Consistent with its proposed endangerment finding, in September 2009, EPA proposed regulations to control greenhouse gas emissions from light duty vehicles. The EPA also announced that its proposed action to control greenhouse gas emissions from light duty vehicles, should it become final, would automatically trigger application of the CAA prevention of significant deterioration and Title V operating permit programs to major stationary sources of greenhouse gas emissions. In September 2009, the EPA issued a proposed “tailoring” rule explaining the legal mechanism upon which it would rely to raise the “major stationary source” air pollutant emission threshold of 250 tons per year and 100 tons per year to 25,000 tons per year. With its proposed “tailoring rule,” the EPA also explained the manner in which it would implement the CAA permitting programs to major stationary source greenhouse gas emission sources. In September 2009, the EPA promulgated a final mandatory greenhouse gas reporting rule which will assist EPA in implementing the major stationary source permitting programs triggered by the mobile source rules. This reporting rule became effective on December 29, 2009. On December 15, 2009, the EPA promulgated its final endangerment rule, “Endangerment and Cause or Contribute Findings for Greenhouse Gases Under Section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act.” This final rule became effective on January 14, 2010. Currently, the EPA is expected to promulgate its final rules regulating and controlling greenhouse gas emissions from light duty vehicles, as well as its final “tailoring rule,” in March 2010. Though subject to legal challenge, the EPA’s rules promulgated thus far are currently final and effective, and will remain so unless successfully challenged directly in court, or unless Congress adopts legislation preempting EPA’s regulatory authority to address greenhouse gases under the CAA. Beyond legislative and regulatory developments, there have been several court cases impacting this area of risk. These cases expose other significant emission sources of greenhouse gases to litigation risk. The effect of this recent case law may be mitigated by actions that the courts determine displace federal common law, 12 Table of Contents potentially including Congressional adoption of greenhouse gas legislation or the EPA’s final adoption of the light duty vehicle emission regulations which, without legislative intervention, will trigger application of other CAA provisions to greenhouse gas emissions. Other nations have already agreed to regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, pursuant to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, also known as the “Kyoto Protocol,” an international treaty pursuant to which participating countries (not including the United States) have agreed to reduce their emissions of greenhouse gases to below 1990 levels by 2012. Though the 15th meeting of the Council of the Parties in Copenhagen in December 2009 failed to result in a final agreement, international negotiations continue, with the participation of the United States. International developments, passage of state or federal climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives, the adoption of regulations by EPA and analogous state agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business, or further development of case law allowing claims based upon greenhouse gas emissions, could have an adverse effect on our operations and the demand for oil and natural gas and increase the costs of our operations. Potential legislative and regulatory actions relating to Federal income taxation and derivatives trading could increase our costs, reduce our revenue and cash flow from oil and natural gas sales, reduce our liquidity or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business. Pending federal budget proposals released by the White House on February 26, 2009 and February 1, 2010 would potentially increase and accelerate the payment of federal income taxes of independent producers of oil and natural gas. Proposals that would significantly affect us include, but are not limited to, repealing the expensing of intangible drilling costs, repealing the percentage depletion allowance, repealing the manufacturing tax deduction for oil and natural gas companies and increasing the amortization period of geological and geophysical expenses. Additionally, the Senate Bill version of the Oil Industry Tax Break Repeal Act of 2009, introduced on April 23, 2009, and the Senate Bill version of the Energy Fairness for America Act, introduced on May 20, 2009, include many of the proposals outlined in the federal budget proposals. It is unclear, however, whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon such changes could be effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of the budget proposals, either Senate Bill or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change (i) would make it more costly for us to explore for and develop our oil and natural gas reserves and (ii) could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. Congress is considering measures aimed at increasing the transparency and stability of the over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivative markets and preventing excessive speculation. We maintain an active price and basis protection hedging program related to the oil and natural gas we produce. Additionally, we have used the OTC market exclusively for our oil and natural gas derivative contracts and rely on our hedging activities to manage the risk of low commodity prices and to predict with greater certainty the cash flow from our hedged production. Proposals being considered would impose clearing and standardization requirements for all OTC derivatives and restrict trading positions in the energy futures markets. Such changes would likely materially reduce our hedging opportunities and could negatively affect our revenues and cash flow during periods of low commodity prices. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. We utilize hydraulic fracturing as a means to enhance the productive capability of our wells, particularly in shale formations such as the producing zone in our North Texas Barnett Shale wells. Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used 13 Table of Contents by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. Sponsors of bills currently pending before the Senate and House of Representatives have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, these bills, if adopted, could repeal the exemptions for hydraulic fracturing from the Safe Drinking Water Act which would allow the EPA to establish an additional level of regulation at the federal level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing, which could result in limiting the productive capability of future wells in which we likely would utilize hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. We may not be able to borrow the full amount of the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility because of the amount of our Modified EBITDA. The inability to fully borrow funds up to our borrowing base could reduce our capital expenditures. As of December 31, 2009, our borrowing base under our revolving credit facility was $175.0 million. As of the same date, we had outstanding advances under the revolving credit facility of $135.0 million, leaving an aggregate availability under our revolver of $40.0 million. However, because of the amount of our Modified EBITDA, the financial covenants set forth in our credit facility would have limited us to additional borrowings under our revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2009 of $25.3 million. We will be unable to borrow the full amount of our borrowing base until our Modified EBITDA for the preceding four fiscal quarters equals or exceeds $63.6 million. Our inability to borrow the full amount of our borrowing base under our revolving credit facility could reduce our current year capital expenditures if we do not meet our goal of funding our 2010 capital expenditures from our operating cash flow. Our method of accounting for investments in oil and natural gas properties may result in a further impairment of asset value, which could affect our stockholder equity and net profit or loss. We use the full cost method of accounting for our investment in oil and natural gas properties. Under the full cost method of accounting, all costs of acquisition, exploration and development of oil and natural gas reserves are capitalized into a “full cost pool.” Capitalized costs in the pool are amortized and charged to operations using the units-of-production method based on the ratio of current production to total proved oil and natural gas reserves. To the extent that such capitalized costs, net of amortization, exceed the after tax present value of estimated future net revenues from our proved oil and natural gas reserves (using a 10% discount rate) at any reporting date, such excess costs are charged to operations. In 2009, we recorded a $47.6 million charge for the impairment of our oil and natural gas properties. This amount is in addition to the $269.4 million charge we recorded in 2008. These writedowns are not reversible at a later date, even if the present value of our proved oil and natural gas reserves increases as a result of an increase in oil or natural gas prices. Further price declines could result in additional impairments of asset value. Properties that we acquire may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against them. As part of our business strategy, we continually seek acquisitions of oil and natural gas properties. The successful acquisition of oil and natural gas properties requires assessment of many factors, which are inherently inexact and may be inaccurate, including the following: • future oil and natural gas prices; • the amount of recoverable reserves; • future operating costs; 14 Table of Contents • future development costs; • failure of titles to properties; • costs and timing of plugging and abandoning wells; and • potential environmental and other liabilities. Our assessment will not necessarily reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become familiar enough with the properties to assess fully their capabilities and deficiencies. With respect to properties on which there is current production, we may not inspect every well location, potential well location or pipeline in the course of our due diligence. Inspections may not reveal structural and environmental problems such as pipeline corrosion or groundwater contamination. We may not be able to obtain or recover on contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities that it created. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations. We face extensive competition in our industry. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We compete with major and independent oil and natural gas companies, many of whom have financial and other resources substantially in excess of those available to us. These competitors may be better positioned to take advantage of industry opportunities and to withstand changes affecting the industry, such as fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices and production, the availability of alternative energy sources and the application of government regulation. Our use of derivative contracts is subject to risks that our counterparties may default on their contractual obligations to us and may cause us to forego additional future profits or result in our making cash payments. Our use of derivative contracts could have the effect of reducing our revenues and the value of our common stock. To reduce our exposure to changes in the prices of oil and natural gas, we have entered into and may in the future enter into derivative contracts for a portion of our oil and natural gas production. Our derivative contracts are subject to mark-to-market accounting treatment. The change in the fair market value of these instruments is reported as a non-cash item in our statement of operations each quarter, which typically result in significant variability in our net income. Derivative contracts expose us to the risk of financial loss and may limit our ability to benefit from increases in oil and natural gas prices in some circumstances, including the following: • the counterparty to the derivative contract may default on its contractual obligations to us; • there is a widening of the price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the derivative contract; or • our production is less than our hedged volumes. The ultimate settlement amount of these unrealized derivative contracts is dependent on future commodity prices. We may incur significant unrealized losses in the future from our use of derivative contracts to the extent market prices increase and our derivatives contracts remain in place. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Commodity Price Risk” appearing elsewhere in this report. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash from operations and other resources in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, including the prices that we receive for oil and natural gas. 15 Table of Contents Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. None of these remedies may, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt in the future, which could cause us to default on our obligations and could impair our liquidity. Restrictive debt covenants could limit our growth and our ability to finance our operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. Our credit agreement contains a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • dispose of assets; • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness and issue certain types of preferred stock; • pay dividends on our capital stock; • create liens on our assets; • enter into sale or leaseback transactions; • enter into specified investments or acquisitions; • repurchase, redeem or retire our capital stock or subordinated debt; • merge or consolidate, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries; • engage in specified transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates; or • pursue other corporate activities. We may be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under our credit agreement. Also, our credit agreement requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to comply with these ratios and financial condition tests may be affected by events beyond our control and, as a result, we may be unable to meet these ratios and financial condition tests. These financial ratio restrictions and financial condition tests could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. A decline in oil and natural gas prices, or a prolonged period of oil and natural gas prices at lower levels, could eventually result in our failing to meet one or more of the financial covenants under our credit facility, which could require us to refinance or amend the facility resulting in the payment of consent fees or higher interest rates, or require us to raise additional capital at an inopportune time or on terms not favorable to us. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or financial condition tests could result in a default under our credit agreement. A default under our credit agreement, if not cured or waived, could result in acceleration of all indebtedness outstanding under our credit agreement. The accelerated debt would become immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may be unable to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock We do not currently pay dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the future. We intend to retain any future earnings to fund our operations; therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Substantial stock ownership by our executive officers, directors and other affiliates may limit the ability of our non-affiliate stockholders to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. Persons who are our officers and directors beneficially own approximately 18% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, our insiders will have significant influence in the election of our directors and, therefore, our policies and direction. This concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. You may experience dilution of your ownership interests due to the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We may in the future issue our previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We are currently authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, preferences and rights as determined by our board of directors. As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding 76,951,883 shares of common stock. In addition, we have reserved an additional 2,409,426 shares for future issuance to our directors, officers and employees as restricted stock or stock option awards pursuant to our 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The potential issuance of such additional shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with future acquisitions, future issuances of our securities for capital raising purposes or for other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control of our company. Delaware law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include the following provisions: • Classified Board of Directors. Our board of directors is divided into three classes with staggered terms of office of three years each. The classification and staggered terms of office of our directors make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board of directors. At least two annual meetings of stockholders, instead of one, generally would be required to effect a change in a majority of the board of directors. • Removal of Directors. Under Delaware law, directors that serve on a classified board, such as our directors, may be removed only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote. 17 Table of Contents • Number of Directors, Board Vacancies, Term of Office. Our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws provide that only the board of directors may set the number of directors. We have elected to be subject to certain provisions of Delaware law which vest in the board of directors the exclusive right, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, to fill vacancies on the board even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum. When effective, these provisions of Delaware law, which are applicable even if other provisions of Delaware law or the charter or bylaws provide to the contrary, also provide that any director elected to fill a vacancy shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred, rather than the next annual meeting of stockholders as would otherwise be the case, and until his or her successor is elected and qualifies. • Advance Notice Provisions for Stockholder Nominations and Proposals. Our bylaws require advance written notice for stockholders to nominate persons for election as directors at, or to bring other business before, any meeting of stockholders. This bylaw provision limits the ability of stockholders to make nominations of persons for election as directors or to introduce other proposals unless we are notified in a timely manner prior to the meeting. • Amending the Bylaws. Our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to adopt, alter or repeal any provision of the bylaws or to make new bylaws. Our bylaws also may be amended by the affirmative vote of our stockholders. • Authorized but Unissued Shares. Under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has authority to cause the issuance of preferred stock from time to time in one or more series and to establish the terms, preferences and rights of any such series of preferred stock, all without approval of our stockholders. Nothing in our certificate of incorporation precludes future issuances without stockholder approval of the authorized but unissued shares of our common stock. We could issue shares of preferred stock which could be entitled to dividend, liquidation and other special rights and preferences not shared by holders of our common stock or which could have anti-takeover effects. We are authorized to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, which shares may be issued from time to time in one or more series as our board of directors, by resolution or resolutions, may from time to time determine. The voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, if any, of each such series of our preferred stock may differ from those of any and all other series of preferred stock at any time outstanding, and, subject to certain limitations of our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law, our board of directors may fix or alter, by resolution or resolutions, the designation, number, voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of each such series of our preferred stock. The issuance of any such preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and, therefore, could reduce the value of our common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell our assets to, a third party. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock could discourage, delay or prevent a takeover of us, thereby preserving our control by the current stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Table of Contents 