Item 1A. Risk Factors We face a variety of risks that are inherent in our business and our industry, including operational, legal and regulatory risks. The following are some of the more significant factors that could affect our business and our results of operations. We caution the reader that the list of factors may not be exhaustive. Other factors may exist that we cannot anticipate or that we do not consider to be significant based on information that is currently available. Risks Related to Our Business The volatility of oil and natural gas prices greatly affects our profitability. Our revenues, operating results, profitability, future rate of growth and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties depend primarily upon the prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have been volatile and are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. Any substantial decline in the price of oil and natural gas will likely have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and level of expenditures for the development of our oil and natural gas reserves, and may result in further write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties as a result of our use of the full cost accounting method. Wide fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control, including: • worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and natural gas; • speculation in the price of commodities in the commodity futures market; • weather conditions; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the availability of drilling rigs and completion equipment; • the availability of pipeline capacity; • the price and volume of foreign imports; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions; and • the overall economic environment. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Oil and natural gas prices could decline to a point where it would be uneconomic for us to sell our oil and gas at those prices, which could result in a decision to shut in production until the prices increase. Our oil and natural gas properties will become uneconomic when oil and natural prices decline to the point at which our revenues are insufficient to recover our lifting costs. For example, in 2008, our average lifting costs were approximately $18.99 per Boe. A market price decline below that price would result in our having to shut in certain production until prices increase. 7 Table of Contents A continuing decline of oil and natural gas prices or a prolonged period of reduced oil and natural gas prices could result in a decrease in our exploration and development expenditures, which could negatively impact our future production. We currently expect to have sufficient cash flows from operations to meet our projected non-acquisition capital expenditure needs for 2009. However, if oil and natural gas prices continue to decline or remain at reduced levels for a prolonged period of time, we may be unable to continue to fund capital expenditures at historical levels due to the decreased cash flows that will result from such reduced oil and natural gas prices. Additionally, a continuing decline in oil and natural gas prices or a prolonged period of lower oil and natural gas prices could result in a reduction of our borrowing base under our current credit facility, which will further reduce the availability of cash to fund our operations. As a result, we may have to reduce our capital expenditures in future years as compared to our capital expenditures in 2008 and recent years. A decrease in our capital expenditures will likely result in a decrease in our production levels. Worldwide demand for oil and natural gas appears to be declining, which could materially reduce our profitability and cash flow. Based on a number of economic indicators, it appears that growth in global economic activity has slowed substantially. At the present time, the rate at which the global economy will slow has become increasingly uncertain. A slowing of global economic growth, and in particular in the U.S. or China, will likely reduce demand for oil and natural gas, increase spare productive capacity and result in lower oil and natural gas prices, which will reduce our cash flow from operations. Oil and natural gas prices have declined significantly over the past six months and may continue to decline. Our profitability is directly related to the prices we receive for the sale of the oil and natural gas we produce. In early July 2008, commodity prices reached record levels in excess of $140.00 per barrel for crude oil and $13.00 for natural gas. Market prices currently are in the range of $44.00 for crude oil and $4.00 for natural gas, a 69% to 73% decline from the earlier highs. As a result, our operating revenues are expected to decline significantly in 2009 as compared with 2008. Our success depends on acquiring or finding additional reserves. Our future success depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Our proved reserves will generally decline as reserves are produced, except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration or development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. To increase reserves and production, we must commence exploratory drilling, undertake other replacement activities or utilize third parties to accomplish these activities. There can be no assurance, however, that we will have sufficient resources to undertake these actions, that our exploratory projects or other replacement activities will result in significant additional reserves or that we will succeed in drilling productive wells at low finding and development costs. Furthermore, although our revenues may increase if prevailing oil and natural gas prices increase significantly, our finding costs for additional reserves could also increase. In accordance with customary industry practice, we rely in part on independent third party service providers to provide most of the services necessary to drill new wells, including drilling rigs and related equipment and services, horizontal drilling equipment and services, trucking services, tubular goods, fracing and completion services and production equipment. The oil and natural gas industry has experienced significant volatility in cost for these services in recent years and this trend is expected to continue into the future. Any future cost increases could significantly increase our development costs and decrease the return possible from drilling and development activities, and possibly render the development of certain proved undeveloped reserves uneconomical. 8 Table of Contents Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are uncertain and may vary substantially from actual production. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of expenditures, including many factors beyond our control. Petroleum engineering is not an exact science. Information relating to our proved oil and natural gas reserves is based upon engineering estimates. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, future site restoration and abandonment costs, the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs, all of which may in fact vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows expected therefrom prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and such variances may be material. We expect to obtain a substantial portion of our funds for property acquisitions and for the drilling and development of our oil and natural gas properties through a combination of cash flows from operations and borrowings. If such borrowed funds were not available to us, or if the terms upon which such funds would be available to us were unfavorable, our ability to acquire oil and natural gas properties, the further development of our oil and natural gas reserves, and our financial condition and results of operations, could be adversely affected. We expect to fund a substantial portion of our future property acquisitions and our drilling and development operations with a combination of cash flows from operations and borrowed funds. To the extent such borrowed funds are not available to us at all, or if the terms under which such funds would be available to us would be unfavorable, our ability to acquire oil and natural gas properties and the further development of our oil and natural gas reserves could be adversely impacted. In such events, we may be unable to replace our reserves of oil and natural gas which, subsequently, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The current deterioration in the financial and credit markets may expose us to counterparty risk with respect to our sales of oil and natural gas. We sell our crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids to a variety of purchasers. Some of these parties are not as creditworthy as we are and may experience liquidity problems. Nonperformance by a trade creditor could result in our incurring losses. The soundness of financial institutions could place our cash deposits at risk. Current market conditions also elevate the concern over our cash accounts, which total approximately $16.2 million, $16.0 million of which is restricted, as of December 31, 2008. Our cash investments and deposits with any financial institution that exceed the amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are at risk in the event one of these financial institutions should fail. Operating hazards and uninsured risks may result in substantial losses. Our operations are subject to all of the hazards and operating risks inherent in drilling for, and the production of, oil and natural gas, including the risk of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards such as oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases. The occurrence of any of these events could result in substantial losses to us due to injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. In 9 Table of Contents accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. There can be no assurance that any insurance will be adequate to cover any losses or liabilities. We cannot predict the continued availability of insurance, or its availability at premium levels that justify its purchase. In addition, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by previous owners of properties purchased by us, which liabilities would not be covered by our insurance. We have been a defendant in a class action lawsuit alleging the underpayment of oil and natural gas royalties in the past. If we were again sued for royalty underpayments and ultimately determined to be liable, the amount of the judgment could adversely affect our financial condition. Several of our subsidiaries have been named defendants in a class action lawsuit in which the plaintiffs seek monetary damages for our alleged underpayment of oil and natural gas royalties, including damages for alleged breach of contract, alleged tortious breach of implied covenants and alleged breach of fiduciary duty, together with punitive damages and other equitable relief. Lawsuits of this nature are not uncommon in the oil and natural gas production industry. If we are sued again in a similar lawsuit and the amount of any damages ultimately awarded to the plaintiffs were material, it could adversely affect our financial condition. For a further discussion of settled litigation of this type, please see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” appearing elsewhere in this report. Our operations are subject to various governmental regulations that require compliance that can be burdensome and expensive. Proposed changes in tax laws affecting the oil and gas industry may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local governmental regulations that may be changed from time to time in response to economic and political conditions. Matters subject to regulation include discharge from drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity to conserve supplies of oil and natural gas. In addition, the production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and natural gas, by-products thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with oil and natural gas operations are subject to regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment. These laws and regulations have continually imposed increasingly strict requirements for water and air pollution control and solid waste management, and compliance with these laws may cause delays in the additional drilling and development of our properties. Significant expenditures may be required to comply with governmental laws and regulations applicable to us. We believe the trend of more expansive and stricter environmental legislation and regulations will continue. While historically we have not experienced any material adverse effect from regulatory delays, there can be no assurance that such delays will not occur in the future. Also, the new administration recently proposed certain changes to the federal income tax laws that could, if adopted, adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, including a requirement to capitalize rather than expense intangible drilling costs, repeal of percentage depletion and a provision lengthening the period for amortization of geological and geophysical expenses. We cannot predict what, if any, other changes in the laws affecting our industry may be proposed by the new administration or adopted by Congress. Our method of accounting for investments in oil and natural gas properties may result in a further impairment of asset value, which could affect our stockholder equity and net profit or loss. We use the full cost method of accounting for our investment in oil and natural gas properties. Under the full cost method of accounting, all costs of acquisition, exploration and development of oil and natural gas reserves are capitalized into a “full cost pool.” Capitalized costs in the pool are amortized and charged to operations using the units-of-production method based on the ratio of current production to total proved oil and natural gas reserves. To the extent that such capitalized costs, net of amortization, exceed the after tax present value of estimated future net revenues from our proved oil and natural gas reserves (using a 10% discount rate) at 10 Table of Contents any reporting date, such excess costs are charged to operations. In the current year, we recorded a $282.0 million charge for the impairment of our oil and natural gas properties. This writedown is not reversible at a later date, even if the present value of our proved oil and natural gas reserves increases as a result of an increase in oil or natural gas prices. Further price declines could result in additional impairments of asset value. Properties that we acquire may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against them. As part of our business strategy, we continually seek acquisitions of oil and natural gas properties. The successful acquisition of oil and natural gas properties requires assessment of many factors, which are inherently inexact and may be inaccurate, including the following: • future oil and natural gas prices; • the amount of recoverable reserves; • future operating costs; • future development costs; • failure of titles to properties; • costs and timing of plugging and abandoning wells; and • potential environmental and other liabilities. Our assessment will not necessarily reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become familiar enough with the properties to assess fully their capabilities and deficiencies. With respect to properties on which there is current production, we may not inspect every well location, potential well location or pipeline in the course of our due diligence. Inspections may not reveal structural and environmental problems such as pipeline corrosion or groundwater contamination. We may not be able to obtain or recover on contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities that it created. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations. We face extensive competition in our industry. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We compete with major and independent oil and natural gas companies, many of whom have financial and other resources substantially in excess of those available to us. These competitors may be better positioned to take advantage of industry opportunities and to withstand changes affecting the industry, such as fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices and production, the availability of alternative energy sources and the application of government regulation. Our use of derivative contracts is subject to risks that our counterparties may default on their contractual obligations to us and may cause us to forego additional future profits or result in our making cash payments. Our use of derivative contracts could have the effect of reducing our revenues and the value of our common stock. To reduce our exposure to changes in the prices of oil and natural gas, we have entered into and may in the future enter into derivative contracts for a portion of our oil and natural gas production. Our derivative contracts are subject to mark-to-market accounting treatment. The change in the fair market value of these instruments is reported as a non-cash item in our statement of operations each quarter, which typically result in significant variability in our net income. Derivative contracts expose us to the risk of financial loss and may limit our ability to benefit from increases in oil and natural gas prices in some circumstances, including the following: • the counterparty to the derivative contract may default on its contractual obligations to us; 11 Table of Contents • there is a widening of the price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the derivative contract; or • our production is less than our hedged volumes. The ultimate settlement amount of these unrealized derivative contracts is dependent on future commodity prices. We may incur significant unrealized losses in the future from our use of derivative contracts to the extent market prices increase and our derivatives contracts remain in place. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Commodity Price Risk” appearing elsewhere in this report. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash from operations and other resources in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, including the prices that we receive for oil and natural gas. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. None of these remedies may, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt in the future, which could cause us to default on our obligations and could impair our liquidity. Restrictive debt covenants could limit our growth and our ability to finance our operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. Our credit agreement contains a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • dispose of assets; • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness and issue certain types of preferred stock; • pay dividends on our capital stock; • create liens on our assets; • enter into sale or leaseback transactions; • enter into specified investments or acquisitions; • repurchase, redeem or retire our capital stock or subordinated debt; • merge or consolidate, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries; • engage in specified transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates; or • pursue other corporate activities. We may be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under our credit agreement. Also, our credit agreement requires us to 12 Table of Contents maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to comply with these ratios and financial condition tests may be affected by events beyond our control and, as a result, we may be unable to meet these ratios and financial condition tests. These financial ratio restrictions and financial condition tests could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. A continuing decline in oil and natural gas prices, or a prolonged period of oil and natural gas prices at current levels, could eventually result in our failing to meet one or more of the financial covenants under our credit facility, which could require us to refinance or amend the facility resulting in the payment of consent fees or higher interest rates, or require us to raise additional capital at an inopportune time or on terms not favorable to us. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or financial condition tests could result in a default under our credit agreement. A default under our credit agreement, if not cured or waived, could result in acceleration of all indebtedness outstanding under our credit agreement. The accelerated debt would become immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may be unable to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. Risk Related to Our Common Stock We do not currently pay dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the future. Prior to consummation of our RAM Energy acquisition, RAM Energy regularly paid cash dividends to its stockholders. We intend to retain any future earnings to fund our operations; therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Voting control by our executive officers, directors and other affiliates may limit the ability of our non-affiliate stockholders to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. Persons who are our officers and directors beneficially own approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, persons who beneficially own approximately 30% of our outstanding common stock are subject to a voting agreement pursuant to which such holders agree to vote for the slate of directors proposed by our board of directors through our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders. Accordingly, our insiders and the parties to this voting agreement will be able to control the election of directors and, therefore, our policies and direction during the term of the voting agreements. This concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. You may experience dilution of your ownership interests due to the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We may in the future issue our previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We are currently authorized to issue one hundred million shares of common stock and one million shares of preferred stock with such designations, preferences and rights as determined by our board of directors. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding 78,532,134 shares of common stock, and outstanding options to purchase 275,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $9.90 per share. In addition, we have reserved an additional 3,734,526 shares for future issuance to our directors, officers and employees as restricted stock or stock option awards pursuant to our 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The potential issuance of such additional shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities 13 Table of Contents that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with future acquisitions, future issuances of our securities for capital raising purposes or for other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control of our company. Delaware law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include the following provisions: • Classified Board of Directors. Our board of directors is divided into three classes with staggered terms of office of three years each. The classification and staggered terms of office of our directors make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board of directors. At least two annual meetings of stockholders, instead of one, generally would be required to effect a change in a majority of the board of directors. • Removal of Directors. Under Delaware law, directors that serve on a classified board, such as our directors, may be removed only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote. • Number of Directors, Board Vacancies, Term of Office. Our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws provide that only the board of directors may set the number of directors. We have elected to be subject to certain provisions of Delaware law which vest in the board of directors the exclusive right, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, to fill vacancies on the board even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum. When effective, these provisions of Delaware law, which are applicable even if other provisions of Delaware law or the charter or bylaws provide to the contrary, also provide that any director elected to fill a vacancy shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred, rather than the next annual meeting of stockholders as would otherwise be the case, and until his or her successor is elected and qualifies. • Advance Notice Provisions for Stockholder Nominations and Proposals. Our bylaws require advance written notice for stockholders to nominate persons for election as directors at, or to bring other business before, any meeting of stockholders. This bylaw provision limits the ability of stockholders to make nominations of persons for election as directors or to introduce other proposals unless we are notified in a timely manner prior to the meeting. • Amending the Bylaws. Our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to adopt, alter or repeal any provision of the bylaws or to make new bylaws. Our certificate of incorporation also provides that our bylaws may be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the outstanding shares of our capital stock. • Authorized but Unissued Shares. Under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has authority to cause the issuance of preferred stock from time to time in one or more series and to establish the terms, preferences and rights of any such series of preferred stock, all without approval of our stockholders. Nothing in our certificate of incorporation precludes future issuances without stockholder approval of the authorized but unissued shares of our common stock. 14 Table of Contents We could issue shares of preferred stock which could be entitled to dividend, liquidation and other special rights and preferences not shared by holders of our common stock or which could have anti-takeover effects. We are authorized to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, which shares may be issued from time to time in one or more series as our board of directors, by resolution or resolutions, may from time to time determine. The voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, if any, of each such series of our preferred stock may differ from those of any and all other series of preferred stock at any time outstanding, and, subject to certain limitations of our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law, our board of directors may fix or alter, by resolution or resolutions, the designation, number, voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of each such series of our preferred stock. The issuance of any such preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and, therefore, could reduce the value of our common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell our assets to, a third party. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock could discourage, delay or prevent a takeover of us, thereby preserving our control by the current stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES 