Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business and operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our IDSs could decline. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of net losses and may not generate profits in the future. We have experienced net losses in each fiscal year since 2000. We incurred net losses of approximately $35.3 million and $31.3 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 and for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2004, respectively. These losses have resulted from a variety of costs including, but not limited to, non-cash charges such as depreciation and amortization of intangible assets and debt financing costs resulting from our growth strategy. Continuing net losses limit our ability to service our debt and fund our operations. We may not generate net income from operations in the future. Our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in negotiating lease renewals. Our business is highly dependent upon the renewal of our lease contracts with property owners and management companies. We have historically focused on obtaining long-term, renewable lease contracts, and management estimates that approximately 90% of our locations are subject to long-term leases with initial terms of five to ten years. If we are unable to secure long-term exclusive leases on favorable terms or at all, or if property owners or management companies choose to vacate properties as a result of economic downturns that impact occupancy levels our growth, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully identify attractive “tuck-in” acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired operations or realize the intended benefits of acquisitions. We evaluate from time to time opportunities to acquire local, regional and multi-regional route businesses. This strategy is subject to numerous risks, including: • an inability to obtain sufficient financing to complete our acquisitions; • an inability to negotiate definitive acquisition agreements on satisfactory terms; • difficulty in integrating the operations, systems and management of acquired assets and absorbing the increased demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources; • the diversion of our management’s attention from their other responsibilities; • the loss of key employees following completion of our acquisitions; • the failure to realize the intended benefits of our acquisitions; and • our being subject to unknown liabilities. Our inability to effectively address these risks could force us to revise our business plan, incur unanticipated expenses or forego additional opportunities for expansion. If our required capital expenditures exceed our projections, we may not have sufficient funding, which could adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations. We must continue to make capital expenditures relating to our route business to maintain our operating base, including investments in equipment, advance location payments and laundry room improvements. Capital expenditures (net of proceeds from the sale of equipment and investments) in connection with maintaining and expanding our machine base for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 were approximately $70.3 million (excluding approximately $0.6 million relating to acquisition capital expenditures and payments 8 Table of Contents of approximately $4.3 million relating to capital lease obligations) and for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2004 were approximately $84.8 million (excluding approximately $3.6 million relating to acquisitions and payments of approximately $4.0 million relating to capital lease obligations). We may have unanticipated capital expenditure requirements in the future. If we cannot obtain such capital from increases in our cash flow from operating activities, additional borrowings or other sources, our growth, financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. Reduced occupancy levels could adversely affect us. Extended periods of reduced occupancy can adversely affect our operations. In a period of occupancy decline, we could be faced with reductions in revenues and cash flow from operations in certain areas. In past periods of occupancy decline, we designed incentive programs that were successful in maintaining stable profit margins by offering owners and management companies, financial incentives relating to increased occupancy levels in exchange for certain guaranteed minimum periodic payments. Although we are geographically diversified and our revenue is derived from a large customer base, we may not be able to maintain our revenue levels or cash flow from operations in periods of low occupancy. Our business could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more of our key personnel. Our continued success will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and certain other key employees. We do not maintain insurance policies with respect to the retention of such employees, and our operations could be affected adversely if, for any reason, such officers or key employees do not remain with us. Our industry is highly competitive, which could adversely affect our business. The laundry equipment services industry is highly competitive, capital intensive and requires reliable, quality service. The industry is fragmented nationally, with many small, private and family-owned businesses operating throughout all major metropolitan areas. Notwithstanding the fragmentation of the industry, there are currently three companies, including us, with significant operations in multiple regions throughout the United States. Some of our competitors may possess greater financial and other resources. Furthermore, current and potential competitors may make acquisitions or may establish relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to compete within the industry. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. If this were to occur, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our business may be adversely affected by compliance obligations and liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. Our business and operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations on the discharge of, and establish standards for the handling, generation, emission, release, discharge, treatment, storage and disposal of, certain materials, substances and wastes. To the best of management’s knowledge, there are no existing or potential environmental claims against us, nor have we received any notification of responsibility for, or any inquiry or investigation regarding, any disposal, release or threatened release of any hazardous material, substance or waste generated by us that is likely to have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. However, we cannot predict with any certainty that we will not in the future incur any liability under environmental laws and regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Current Arizona, California, Connecticut, New Jersey and Maryland state law and proposed legislation in other states imposing heightened energy and water efficiency standards on commercial clothes washers could require a significant increase in our capital expenditures and consequently reduce our profit margins. Under current federal Department of Energy (referred to as the DOE) regulations, residential washers are subject to certain federal energy efficiency standards. States are explicitly preempted from regulating the 9 Table of Contents energy efficiency of any products, including residential washers, covered by such federal regulations. However, the DOE does not consider “commercial” washers, including those similar in all respects to residential washers except for the addition of a coin slot or other device to accept payment, to be covered by its regulations. As a result, Arizona, California, Connecticut, New Jersey and Maryland were able to adopt statewide regulations for commercial washers which are scheduled to go into effect in 2007 and 2008. Such regulations either heightened the federal DOE energy efficiency standards applicable to residential washers, or accelerated the effective date of certain federal standards scheduled to be implemented. If the DOE does not amend the interpretation of its existing regulations to include commercial washers and thereby preclude the implementation of the Arizona, California, Connecticut, New Jersey and Maryland laws and the proposed legislation in other states, and if other states adopt standards similar to Arizona’s, California’s, Connecticut’s, New Jersey’s and Maryland’s, our capital expenditures, as well as those of other industry participants, may significantly increase in order to comply with such standards. If we are unable to mitigate such increased capital through price increases, we may be unable to recover such costs and our cash flows would be materially adversely affected. Our dividend policy may negatively impact our ability to finance our working capital requirements, capital expenditures or operations. Our board of directors adopted a dividend policy under which we intend to distribute to holders of our common stock substantially all of the cash generated by our business in excess of operating needs and amounts needed to service our indebtedness. As a result, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to finance growth opportunities that may arise or unanticipated capital expenditure needs or to fund our operations in the event of a significant business downturn. We may have to forego growth opportunities or capital expenditures that would otherwise be necessary or desirable if we do not fund alternative sources of financing. If we do not have sufficient cash for these purposes, our financial condition and our business will suffer. Risks Relating to Our Securities We have substantial indebtedness which could restrict our ability to pay interest and principal on the 11% Senior Secured Notes and to pay dividends with respect to the shares of the Class A Common Stock underlying the IDSs and the shares of Class B Common Stock and could adversely affect our financing options and liquidity position. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of March 31, 2005, we have had total indebtedness of $708.4 million, and an additional $68.6 million available for borrowing under the Senior Secured Credit Facility. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, our substantial indebtedness could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the 11% Senior Secured Notes and our other indebtedness and/or pay dividends on our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock; • limit our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions, reduce our ability to withstand competitive pressures and increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, future business opportunities, including strategic acquisitions, and other general corporate requirements or hinder us from obtaining such financing on terms favorable to us or at all; • limit our ability to issue new IDSs; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, future business opportunities and other general corporate purposes; 10 Table of Contents • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness. We may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness, which could exacerbate the risks described above. We may be able to incur substantial amounts of additional indebtedness in the future, including indebtedness resulting from issuances of additional separate notes or IDSs. While the indenture governing the 11% Senior Secured Notes and the terms of our other indebtedness limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness, those limitations are subject to a number of exceptions. Any additional indebtedness incurred by us could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. The holders of IDSs and common stock may not receive the level of dividends provided for in the dividend policy that our board of directors adopted or any dividends at all. We expect to pay quarterly dividends on the Class A Common Stock and annual dividends on our Class B Common Stock in accordance with the dividend policy that we adopted in connection with our IPO. However, our board of directors may, in its discretion, amend or repeal our dividend policy. Our board of directors may decrease the level of dividends provided for in the dividend policy or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends. Dividend payments are not required or guaranteed, and holders of our common stock do not have any legal right to receive or require the payment of dividends. Future dividends, if any, with respect to shares of our capital stock will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition and contractual restrictions, and our ability to generate cash from our operations, which in turn is dependent on our ability to attract and retain customers and our ability to service our debt obligations and capital expenditures requirements. See “Item 5 — Market Price of and Dividends on our Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters.” Other factors, including the pursuit of new business strategies or opportunities, increased regulatory compliance costs or lease renewal costs, changes in our competitive environment and changes in tax treatment of our debt, may also reduce cash available for dividends. Subject to certain limitations, commencing May 24, 2005, we may redeem all or part of the then outstanding Class B Common Stock. Any exercise by us of such redemption rights will reduce cash available for Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock dividend payments. Due to our currently contemplated cash uses, including dividend payments, we do not expect to retain enough cash from operations to be able to pay the 11% Senior Secured Notes, the 9% Senior Notes, or the Senior Secured Credit Facility when such indebtedness matures or when principal payments (other than regularly scheduled amortization payments under the Senior Secured Credit Facility) on such indebtedness otherwise become due. Therefore, cash available for dividends will be reduced when such payments are required, unless such indebtedness is refinanced prior to such time. In addition, any future issuances of Class A Common Stock, including but not limited to issuances pursuant to the CSC 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “2004 LTIP”) that we have adopted (whether or not such shares of Class A Common Stock underlie IDSs), and any future issuances of Class B Common Stock, will increase the number of outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and/or Class B Common Stock and consequently will make it more difficult for us to pay dividends on our common stock at the dividend rate set forth in our dividend policy. The earliest that the subordination of payment of any cash dividends on the Class B Common Stock may terminate is the fiscal year ending March 31, 2008, and all shares of Class B Common Stock will then be equally entitled to cash dividend payments with all shares of Class A Common Stock, subject to the Class B Common Stock step up dividend right described below. Therefore, any cash set aside for dividends will have to be shared by the holders of the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock on a pro rata basis. Since under these circumstances less cash will be available to the holders of Class A Common Stock, we may be forced to reduce cash dividends on the Class A Common Stock. Following the termination of the subordination provisions, each share of Class B Common Stock will be entitled to a step up dividend of 105% of the aggregate amount of dividends declared on each share of Class A 11 Table of Contents Common Stock for the four fiscal quarters occurring during any fiscal year ending after March 31, 2007 (unless, solely with respect to the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and March 31, 2009, the Subordination Termination Conditions have not been satisfied with respect to such fiscal year). Any excess payments in cash will reduce cash available for future Class A Common Stock dividend payments, which may force us to reduce such Class A Common Stock dividend payments. Furthermore, the indenture governing the 11% Senior Secured Notes contains limitations on our ability to pay dividends and the Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indenture governing the 9% Senior Notes contain restrictions on the ability of Coinmach to pay dividends to us. For more information regarding restrictive covenants in agreements governing our indebtedness, see “— Restrictive covenants in our current and future indebtedness could adversely restrict our operating flexibility.” Holders of IDSs, Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock may not receive the level of dividends provided for in our dividend policy or any dividends at all. Delaware law also restricts our ability to pay dividends. Under Delaware law, our board of directors and the boards of directors of our corporate subsidiaries may declare dividends only to the extent of our “surplus,” which is total assets at current value minus total liabilities at current value (as each may be determined in good faith by our board of directors), minus statutory capital, or if there is no surplus, out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. There is no active trading market for our debt-only or equity-only securities, which could prevent us from issuing debt-only or equity-only securities and may limit our ability to obtain future financing. If we are unable to issue additional IDSs, we may be forced to rely on the sale of debt-only or equity-only securities as an additional source of capital. However, the absence of a liquid market for separate notes or shares of the Class A Common Stock may make the issuance by us of separate notes or Class A Common Stock relatively less appealing, limiting our ability to obtain debt-only or equity-only financing on reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise capital through a debt-only or equity-only financing, we may be forced to enter into more costly financing arrangements in order to fund working capital and capital expenditures and otherwise service our liquidity needs. We are a holding company with no direct operations, and therefore our ability to make payments under the 11% Senior Secured Notes or declare and distribute dividends on the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries. We are a holding company with no operations. Consequently, we will depend on distributions or other intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries (including payments under the Intercompany Loan from Coinmach) to make interest and principal payments on the 11% Senior Secured Notes and to pay dividends on the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. In addition, distributions and intercompany transfers to us from our subsidiaries will depend on: • their earnings; • covenants contained in our and their debt agreements, including the amended Senior Secured Credit Facility, the indenture governing the 9% Senior Notes and the indenture governing the 11% Senior Secured Notes; • covenants contained in other agreements to which we or our subsidiaries are or may become subject; • business and tax considerations; and • applicable law, including laws regarding the payment of dividends and distributions. Restrictions on Coinmach’s ability to pay dividends contained in the indenture governing the 9% Senior Notes and the Senior Secured Credit Facility are different, and potentially more restrictive, than the restrictions on CSC’s ability to pay dividends contained in the indenture governing the 11% Senior Secured Notes. Therefore, circumstances may arise where, although CSC would be permitted to pay dividends under the indenture governing the 11% Senior Secured Notes, Coinmach would be unable to provide CSC with the 12 Table of Contents cash to actually pay such dividends as well as interest on the 11% Senior Secured Notes. We cannot give assurance that the operating results of our subsidiaries will be sufficient to make distributions or other payments to us or that any distributions and/or payments will be adequate to pay any amounts due under the 11% Senior Secured Notes or the amounts intended under our dividend policy. Restrictive covenants in our current and future indebtedness could adversely restrict our operating flexibility. The indenture governing the 9% Senior Notes contains and the indenture governing the 11% Senior Secured Notes will contain covenants that restrict the ability of Coinmach and CSC, respectively, as well as the ability of their respective restricted subsidiaries, to: • incur additional indebtedness or, in the case of our restricted subsidiaries, issue preferred stock; • create liens; • pay dividends or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • sell or make certain dispositions of assets; • engage in sale and leaseback transactions; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • place restrictions on the ability of their respective restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends, or make other payments, to Coinmach or CSC; and • engage in mergers or consolidations and transfers of all, or substantially all of the assets of Coinmach or CSC, respectively. In addition, the Senior Secured Credit Facility contains, and the terms of any other indebtedness that we or our subsidiaries may enter into may contain, other and more restrictive covenants that limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to incur indebtedness, and make capital expenditures and limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends to us. These covenants may also require us and/or our subsidiaries to meet or maintain specified financial ratios and tests. Our ability to comply with the ratios and tests under these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial, regulatory or industry conditions. A breach of any of such covenants, ratios or tests could result in a default under the Senior Secured Credit Facility, the indenture governing the 9% Senior Notes and the indenture governing the 11% Senior Secured Notes. Lack of a significant amount of cash could adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make payments on, refinance or repay our debt, or to fund planned capital expenditures and expand our business, will depend largely upon our future operating performance. Our future operating performance is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot give assurance that our business will generate enough cash to enable us to pay our outstanding debt or fund our other liquidity and capital needs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to service our debt requirements, we will be required to obtain such capital from additional borrowings or other sources, including: • sales of certain assets to meet our debt service requirements; • sales of equity; and • negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. If we cannot satisfy our cash requirements, our growth, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. 13 Table of Contents Voting control of us by Holdings may prevent the holders of IDSs from receiving a premium in the event of a change of control and may create conflicts of interest. As of March 31, 2005, Holdings was in control of approximately 73% of our voting power and therefore will exert substantial control over our business and over matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. Such voting control could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, merger or tender offer of us, which would deprive our securityholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for our securities and may negatively affect the market price of such securities. Moreover, Holdings could effectively receive a premium for transferring ownership to third parties that would not inure to the benefit of the other holders of our securities. The interests of the equity investors in Holdings (which equity investors include our management and certain of our directors) may conflict with the interests of other holders of our securities. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of these parties as indirect holders of equity might conflict with the interests of a holder of the 11% Senior Secured Notes. These parties also may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to the holders of the 11% Senior Secured Notes. We will not be able to deduct interest on the 11% Senior Secured Notes if the 11% Senior Secured Notes are not respected as debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes. No statutory, judicial or administrative authority directly addresses the treatment of the IDSs or instruments similar to the IDSs for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the purchase, ownership and disposition of IDSs are not certain. If the IRS takes the position that the 11% Senior Secured Notes are equity for U.S. federal income tax purposes and that position were sustained by the courts, no payments on the 11% Senior Secured Notes would be treated as interest. As a result, we would not be able to take a deduction for interest on the 11% Senior Secured Notes on our U.S. federal income tax return or any state return following the federal treatment. This would materially increase our taxable income and, thus, our U.S. federal and applicable state income tax liability. This could reduce our after-tax cash flow and materially adversely affect our ability to make interest payments on the 11% Senior Secured Notes and to distribute dividends on the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. In addition, if the 11% Senior Secured Notes were treated as equity, such treatment could adversely affect the amount, timing, character and other U.S. federal income tax treatment of income, gain or loss in respect of an investment in IDSs. For example, holders that are not U.S. persons would be subject to U.S. federal withholding and estate taxes in the same manner as they will be with regard to the Class A common stock. The separation of IDSs into shares of Class A Common Stock and 11% Senior Secured Notes may diminish the value of an investment in IDSs. The IDSs will automatically and permanently separate into shares of Class A Common Stock and the 11% Senior Secured Notes on the fifteenth anniversary of the original issue date of the IDSs offered hereby. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain other events IDSs will automatically and, in some cases, permanently, separate. Furthermore, a holder of IDSs may voluntarily separate its IDSs on and after the 45th day after the original issue date of the IDSs. If IDSs separate, we cannot assure a holder of IDSs that an active trading market will develop for shares of Class A Common Stock and the 11% Senior Secured Notes as separate securities. Even if an active trading market for either of such securities were to develop, the value of such separately held Class A Common Stock and the 11% Senior Secured Notes may be less than that of the equivalent amount of IDSs. Conversely, if at any time all IDSs are not separated, we cannot predict what affect any separate trading market in Class A Common Stock or the 11% Senior Secured Notes would have on the value of then outstanding IDSs. Such a separate trading market may cause the value of a security underlying an IDS to be less than the value of the same security not underlying an IDS, which in turn may make separation of then 14 Table of Contents outstanding IDSs more attractive. Any reduction in outstanding IDSs would decrease the liquidity for the remaining IDSs and could cause the IDSs to be delisted. Available Information Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, we are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information about the public reference room. The SEC maintains a web site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We file electronically with the SEC. We make available, free of charge, through the investor relations section of our web site, our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. The address for our web site is http://www.coinmachservicecorp.com. On November 19, 2004, we adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applies to all of our and our subsidiaries’ employees, officers and directors. On such date we also adopted a Supplemental Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers. The full text of each such code is available at the investor relations section of our web site, http://www.coinmachservicecorp.com. We intend to disclose amendments to, or waivers from, each such code in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and make such disclosures available on our web site. The information contained on our web site is not part of, and is not incorporated in, this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. 