Item 1A. Risk Factors Our ability to retain our senior managing directors is critical to the success of our business The success of our business depends upon the personal reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and project execution skills of our managing directors and senior advisors, particularly our senior managing directors. Founded in 1996, our business has a more limited operating history than many of our competitors and, as a result, our managing directors’ personal reputations and relationships with our clients are a critical element in obtaining and maintaining client engagements, and forming and investing merchant banking funds. Accordingly, the retention of our managing directors is particularly crucial to our future success. The departure or other loss of Mr. Greenhill, our founder and Chairman, Scott L. Bok, our Chief Executive Officer, the regional heads of businesses in North America, Europe, Australia, or Japan, or the departure or other loss of other senior managing directors, each of whom manages substantial client relationships and possesses substantial experience and expertise, could materially adversely affect our ability to secure and successfully complete engagements, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if any of our managing directors were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. There is no guarantee that the compensation arrangements and non-competition agreements we have entered into with our managing directors are sufficiently broad or effective to prevent our managing directors from resigning to join our competitors or that the non-competition agreements would be upheld if we were to seek to enforce our rights under these agreements. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from financial advisory fees We have historically earned a significant portion of our revenues from financial advisory fees paid to us by our clients, in large part upon the successful completion of the client’s transaction, restructuring or fund raising. Financial advisory revenues represented 91% and 72% of our total revenues in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Unlike diversified investment banks, which generate revenues from securities trading and underwriting, our only other source of revenue is gains or losses which we may generate from our investments in merchant banking funds or Iridium, which will decline over time as we liquidate our investments. As a result, a decline in our financial advisory engagements or the market for advisory services generally would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from our services in connection with mergers and acquisitions and we have not historically been able to offset a decline in revenues from merger and acquisition services with revenues from our financing advisory and restructuring services During a period when mergers and acquisitions activity declines and debt defaults increase, we increasingly rely on financing advisory and restructuring and bankruptcy services as a source of new business. We provide various restructuring and restructuring-related advice to companies in financial distress or their creditors or other stakeholders. A number of factors affect demand for these advisory services, including general economic conditions and the availability and cost of debt and equity financing. Presently, our financing advisory and restructuring business is significantly smaller than our mergers and acquisitions advisory business, and we have been unable to offset declines in mergers and acquisitions revenue with revenue generated from financing advisory and restructuring assignments and expect that we will be unlikely to do so in the foreseeable future. Despite adverse market conditions, the number of debt defaults has remained limited, diminishing our ability to generate revenue from financing advisory and restructuring activities. To the extent that there is limited debt default activity our ability to generate revenue from financing advisory and restructuring activities may be adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents Our business has been adversely affected by difficult market conditions and may continue to be adversely affected by market uncertainty, disruptions in the credit markets and other unfavorable economic, geopolitical or market conditions Adverse market or economic conditions would likely affect the number, size and timing of transactions on which we provide mergers and acquisitions advice and therefore adversely affect our financial advisory fees. As demonstrated over the past few years, economic uncertainty, slow economic growth and weak financial markets negatively impact merger and acquisition activity. Our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on access to the credit markets to finance their transactions. The lack of available credit and the increased cost of credit can adversely affect the size, volume, timing and ability of our clients to successfully complete merger and acquisition transactions and adversely affect our financial advisory business. Furthermore, market volatility also affects our clients’ ability and willingness to engage in stock-for-stock transactions. While we operate in North America, Europe, Australia, and Asia our operations in the United States and Europe historically have provided most of our revenues and earnings. Consequently, our revenues and profitability are particularly affected by economic conditions in these locations. Adverse market or economic conditions, including continuing volatility in the commodities markets, limited access to credit as well as a slowdown of economic activity could also adversely affect the business operations of those companies in which we have investments, and therefore, our earnings. In addition, during a market downturn, there may be fewer opportunities to exit and realize value from our investments in merchant banking funds and Iridium. Our private capital and real estate capital advisory business is dependent on the availability of private capital for deployment in illiquid asset classes such as private equity and real estate funds In our private capital and real estate capital advisory business we assist fund managers and sponsors in raising capital for new funds. Our ability to find suitable engagements and earn fees in this business depends on the availability of private and public capital for investments in illiquid assets such as private equity and real estate funds. Following the onset of the current financial crisis, there has been a shortage of such capital, and far fewer new funds are being raised today than in the period preceding the crisis. In addition, new funds raised in the current environment generally obtain smaller aggregate capital commitments than in earlier years. To the extent private and public capital focused on illiquid investment opportunities remains limited, our ability to earn fees in the private capital advisory business may be adversely affected. Our engagements are singular in nature and do not provide for subsequent engagements Our clients generally retain us on a non-exclusive, short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific merger or acquisition transactions, financing advisory and restructuring projects, or private equity or real estate capital raising assignment, rather than under long-term contracts covering potential additional future services. As these transactions are singular in nature and our engagements are not likely to recur, we must seek out new engagements when our current engagements are successfully completed or are terminated. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in the next-succeeding or any other period. In addition, when an engagement is terminated, whether due to the cancellation of a transaction due to market reasons or otherwise, we may earn limited or no fees and may not be able to recoup the costs that we incurred prior to that termination. A high percentage of our financial advisory revenues are derived from a few clients and the termination of any one financial advisory engagement could reduce our revenues and harm our operating results Each year, we advise a limited number of clients. Our top ten client engagements accounted for 36% of our total revenues in 2010 and 41% of our total revenues in 2009. In 2010, we did not have 7 Table of Contents any client engagements that accounted for 10% or more of our total revenue. In 2009, our single largest client engagement (advice to Roche Holdings Ltd. in connection with its acquisition of the outstanding publicly held interest in Genentech, Inc.) accounted for approximately 10% of our 2009 total revenues. We earned $1 million or more from 57 clients in 2010, compared to 43 in 2009, of which 44% of the clients were new to the firm in 2010. While the composition of the group comprising our largest clients varies significantly from year to year, we expect that our financial advisory engagements will continue to be limited to a relatively small number of clients and that an even smaller number of those clients will account for a high percentage of revenues in any particular year. As a result, the adverse impact on our results of operation of one lost engagement or the failure of one transaction or restructuring on which we are advising to be completed can be significant. Investment gains from merchant banking funds and Iridium vary from period to period; these gains may not recur and may not be replaced by other gains; our investments may lose money We retain certain principal investments in merchant banking funds (which in turn have a limited number of investments in portfolio companies) and Iridium. The fair value of these investments may appreciate (or depreciate) at different rates based on a variety of factors, including changes in the fair value of such investments. Historically, gains (or losses) from investments have been significantly impacted by market factors, specific industry conditions and other factors beyond our control, and we cannot predict the timing or size of any such gains (or losses) in future periods. The lack of investment gains (and any losses which may be attributable to the investments in the merchant banking funds or in Iridium) and the volatility of changes in investment values may adversely affect our results of operations and our stock price. There were no gains (or losses) from any single investment that accounted for more than 10% of total revenues in 2010. In 2009, the firm recognized a net gain from our investment in Iridium that accounted for more than 10% of total revenues. Our investment in Iridium was valued at $80.9 million at December 31, 2010. Since September 2009, when Iridium became publicly traded after the business combination with GHL Acquisition Corp., its share price has ranged from a high of $11.55 and a low of $6.36. Iridium’s share price was $8.25 at December 31, 2010. A significant decline in the market value of Iridium can give rise to significant losses and adversely affect our revenue and earnings. There will not be a consistent pattern in our financial results from quarter to quarter, which may result in increased volatility of our stock price We can experience significant variations in revenues and profits during each quarterly period. These variations can generally be attributed to the fact that our revenues are usually earned in large amounts throughout the year upon the successful completion of a transaction or restructuring or closing of a fund, the timing of which is uncertain and is not subject to our control. Moreover, the timing of our recognition of gains or losses from our investment portfolio may vary significantly from period to period and depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including most notably market and general economic conditions. Compared to our larger, more diversified competitors in the financial services industry, we generally experience even greater variations in our revenues and profits. This is due to our dependence on a relatively small number of transactions for most of our revenues, with the result that our earnings can be significantly affected if any particular transaction is not completed successfully, and to the fact that we lack other, more stable sources of revenue in material amounts, such as brokerage and asset management fees, which could moderate some of the volatility in financial advisory revenues. In addition, we report the value of our portfolio of investments at estimated fair value at the end of each quarter. The value of our investments may increase or decrease significantly depending upon market factors that are beyond our control. As a result, it may be difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis, which could adversely affect our stock price. 8 Table of Contents In many cases we are not paid for financial advisory engagements that do not result in the successful consummation of a transaction or restructuring or closing of a fund. As a result, our business is highly dependent on market conditions and the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties. For example, a client could delay or terminate a transaction because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or shareholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, or adverse market conditions. Anticipated bidders for assets of a client during a restructuring transaction may not materialize or our client may not be able to restructure its operations or indebtedness due to a failure to reach agreement with its principal creditors. Our clients may not raise sufficient capital to start a new fund because anticipated investors may decline to invest in such fund due to lack of liquidity, change in strategic direction of the investor, or other factors. In these circumstances, we may not receive any financial advisory fees, other than the reimbursement of certain out- of-pocket expenses. The failure of the parties to complete a transaction on which we are advising, and the consequent loss of revenue to us, could lead to large adverse movements in our stock price. Our investment portfolio contains investments in high-risk, illiquid assets Given the nature of our investments, there is a significant risk that we will be unable to realize our investment objectives by sale or other disposition at attractive prices or will otherwise be unable to complete any exit strategy. In particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the company in which the investment is made, changes in technology, changes in national or international economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions of countries in which investments are made. lsMerchant banking funds will typically invest in securities of a class that are not publicly-traded. In many cases they may be prohibited by contract or by applicable securities laws from selling such securities for a period of time or otherwise be restricted from disposing of such securities. The ability of such funds to dispose of investments is heavily dependent on the merger and acquisition environment and the initial public offering market, which fluctuate in terms of both the volume of transactions as well as the types of companies which are able to access the market. Furthermore, the types of investments made may require a substantial length of time to liquidate. We will generally not be able to sell our investments in merchant banking funds or control the disposition of securities in those funds. Moreover, in the case of Iridium, we may be further limited in our ability to sell such securities as we sit on the board of directors of the company. Our investments are reported at estimated fair value at the end of each quarter and our allocable share of these gains or losses will affect our revenue, which could increase the volatility of our quarterly earnings, even if such gains or losses may have no cash impact. It generally takes a substantial period of time to realize the cash value of our principal investments. Even if an investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash from such investment. We value our investment portfolio each quarter using a fair value methodology, which could result in gains or losses to the firm; the fair value methodology may over- or under-state the ultimate value we will realize As of December 31, 2010, the value of the firm’s portfolio of investments, including its investments in merchant banking funds and Iridium, was $160.9 million. The value of our investment in Iridium’ common stock is recorded at its publicly traded market value. The value of our investments in Iridium warrants and the merchant banking funds is recorded at estimated fair value and is determined on a quarterly basis after giving consideration to the cost of the security, the pricing of other sales of securities by the portfolio company, the price of securities of other companies comparable to the portfolio company, purchase multiples paid in other comparable third party transactions, the original purchase price multiple, market conditions, liquidity, operating results and other quantitative and qualitative factors, and in the case of publicly traded securities, the closing price of the security on the last day of 9 Table of Contents the relevant period discounted for any legal or contractual restrictions on sale. Significant changes in the public equity markets and/or the operating results of the portfolio companies of the merchant banking funds and other principal investments may have a material effect on the fair value of our principal investments and therefore on our revenues and profitability during any reporting period. The estimated fair value at which the principal investments are carried on our books may vary significantly from period to period depending on a number of factors beyond our control. It may not be possible to sell these investments at the estimated fair values attributed to them in our financial statements. A significant deterioration in the credit markets or the failure of one or more banking institutions could adversely affect our liquidity A significant portion of our assets consist of cash and cash equivalents. We have invested these assets in instruments which we believe are highly liquid, and monitor developments relating to the liquidity of these investments on a regular basis. In the event of a significant deterioration of the credit markets or the failure of one or more banking institutions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to liquidate these assets or access our cash. Our inability to access our cash investments could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and result in a charge to our earnings which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock. We have a $75.0 million revolving loan facility from a U.S. commercial bank which currently expires on April 30, 2011. At December 31, 2010 we had $67.0 million drawn down from the facility. We utilize the revolving loan facility primarily to provide for our domestic cash needs, which include dividend payments, share repurchases, and working capital needs. We generally roll over the maturity date of our revolving loan facility annually. Our inability to extend the maturity date of the loan or renew the facility on acceptable terms with the existing lender could require us to repay all or a portion of the loan balance outstanding at maturity. There is no assurance, if our credit facility is not renewed with the current lender, that we would be able to obtain a new credit facility of a similar size from a different lender. In order to repay the outstanding balance of our credit facility, we could be required to repatriate funds to the U.S., liquidate some of our principal investments or issue debt or equity securities in the public or private markets, in each case on terms which may not be favorable to us. Our inability to refinance the loan facility could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and result in our inability to meet our obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We face strong competition from far larger firms and other independent firms The investment banking industry is intensely competitive and we expect it to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our advice and service, innovation, reputation and price. We believe we may experience pricing pressures in our areas of operation in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. We are a relatively small investment bank, with 323 employees (including managing directors and senior advisors) as of December 31, 2010 and total revenues of $278.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Most of our competitors in the investment banking industry have a far greater range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition, more managing directors to serve their clients’ needs, greater global reach and more established relationships with their customers than we have. These larger and better capitalized competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the investment banking market, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share generally. The scale of our competitors has increased over the years as a result of substantial consolidation among companies in the investment banking industry. In addition, a number of large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms have established or acquired financial advisory practices and broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions. Many of these firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and 10 Table of Contents insurance to brokerage, asset management and investment banking services, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services revenues in an effort to gain market share, which could result in pricing pressure in our businesses. In particular, the ability to provide financing as well as advisory services has become an important advantage for some of our larger competitors, and because we are unable to provide such financing we may be unable to compete for advisory clients in a significant part of the advisory market. In addition to our larger competitors, over the last few years, a number of new, smaller independent boutique investment banks have emerged which offer independent advisory services on a model similar to ours and some of these firms have grown rapidly. As these independent firms seek to gain market share there could be pricing pressure, which would adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Strategic investments, acquisitions and joint ventures, or foreign expansion may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business We intend to grow our core business through both recruiting and internal expansion and through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures. In the event we make strategic investments or acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, such as our recent investment in Caliburn, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls. In the case of joint ventures, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact our business. To the extent that we pursue business opportunities outside the United States, we will be subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in a foreign country, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular foreign market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. To fund our growth we may consider a range of financing alternatives. If we expand by recruiting new managing directors, we will incur compensation, occupancy, integration and business development costs. Depending upon the extent of our recruiting, such costs may be funded from cash from operations or other financing alternatives. If we expand by strategic investment, acquisition or joint venture, depending upon the size of the acquisition we may fund such expansion through internally generated cash flow, proceeds from bank or other borrowings, or the issuance of equity. There can be no assurance that the firm will be able to generate or obtain sufficient capital on acceptable terms to fund its expansion needs which would limit the future growth of the business and adversely affect our share price. Expansion of our business may increase our operating costs and funding requirements in advance of, or in excess of, increases in revenues Since our establishment we have grown our business steadily. Over the past five years we have increased our headcount from 151 to 323 employees. During that period we have expanded our operations in the United States with the addition of four new offices as well as overseas with the addition of offices in Canada and Japan and two offices in Australia. This expansion has increased our total operating expenses from $131.2 million in 2005 to $219.4 million in 2010. During that same period our total revenues increased from $221.2 million in 2005 to $278.3 million in 2010. We fund our operating costs through cash generated from operations and the revolving loan facility. We generate cash from operations principally from the successful completion of a transaction or realized proceeds 11 Table of Contents from the sale of all or a portion of one of our principal investments. The size and timing of increases in revenues may lag behind the increases in costs associated with such expansion. Because we lack a diversified base of revenues there can be no assurance that the revenues we earn from our financial advisory services will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our operating needs. In the event our cash generated from operations were insufficient to meet our operating needs we would be required to fund such shortfall by borrowing additional amounts from our revolving loan facility, liquidating our principal investments in the merchant banking funds or Iridium, or accessing the debt or equity markets. On a longer term basis we might be required to reduce our cost structure by closing office locations and reducing headcount. Greenhill’s employees own a significant portion of the common stock of the firm and their interests may differ from those of our public shareholders Our employees and their affiliated entities collectively own approximately 14% of the total shares of common stock outstanding at December 31, 2010. In addition, we have issued restricted stock units to our employees which, if fully vested as of December 31, 2010, would have resulted in our employees and their affiliates owning approximately 22% of our shares of common stock. As a result of these shareholdings, our employees currently are able to exercise significant influence over the election of our entire board of directors, the management and policies of Greenhill and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of Greenhill. Employee misconduct could harm Greenhill and is difficult to detect and deter There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud, insider trading or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur at our firm. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. Our financial advisory business often requires that we deal with client confidences of the greatest significance to our clients, improper use of which may have a material adverse impact on our clients. Any breach of our clients’ confidences as a result of employee misconduct may impair our ability to attract and retain advisory clients. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. We may face damage to our professional reputation and legal liability to our clients and affected third parties if our services are not regarded as satisfactory As an investment banking firm, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, it may be more damaging in our business than in other businesses. Moreover, our role as advisor to our clients on important mergers and acquisitions or restructuring transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering “fairness opinions” in connection with mergers and other transactions. Our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties, including shareholders of our clients who could bring actions against us. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial intermediaries have been increasing. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Our engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be enforceable in all cases. As a result, we may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business prospects. 12 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive regulation in the financial services industry We, as a participant in the financial services industry, are subject to extensive regulation in the United States, Europe, Australia and elsewhere. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration or the registration of any of our regulated subsidiaries. Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing clients or fail to gain new clients. Our U.S. broker-dealer, and our U.K., Australian and German investment banking affiliates are subject to periodic examinations by regulatory authorities. We cannot predict the outcome of any such examination. In addition, as a result of recent highly publicized financial scandals, the regulatory environment in which we operate may be subject to further regulation. Further, financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interest or perceived conflicts. While we have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts, these policies and procedures carry attendant costs and may not be adhered to by our employees. Failure to adhere to these polices and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. Change in applicable law and regulatory schemes could adversely affect our business From time to time, the United States and other national governments in the countries in which we operate and related regulatory authorities may adopt new rules which affect our business. In the United States, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act was adopted in 2010, bringing sweeping changes in the regulations of financial institutions. It will take several years for the rules under the Dodd-Frank Act to be written and become effective, and the final scope and interpretations of those rules, and their impact on our business, will not be fully known for some time, but could well have implications for the manner in which we conduct our business and, consequently, its profitability. In addition, several states and municipalities in the United States have recently adopted “pay-to-play” rules which will limit our ability to charge fees in connection with certain of our private capital advisory engagements, and could therefore limit the profitability of that portion of our business. Legal restrictions on our clients may reduce the demand for our services New laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may also adversely affect our businesses. For example, changes in antitrust enforcement could affect the level of mergers and acquisitions activity and changes in regulation could restrict the activities of our clients and their need for the types of advisory services that we provide to them. Fees earned in connection with advisory assignments in the bankruptcy context may be subject to challenge and reduction In our financial advisory business we, from time to time, advise debtors or creditors of companies which are involved in bankruptcy proceedings in the United States Bankruptcy Courts. Under the applicable rules of those courts, our fees are subject to approval by the court and other interested parties have the ability to challenge the payment of those fees. Fees earned and reflected in our revenues may from time to time be subject to successful challenges, which could result in a reduction of revenues and affect our stock price adversely. Our share price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale Sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our managing directors and other employees, or the possibility of such sales, may adversely affect the price of the common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. As of December 31, 2010, there were 29,341,604 shares of common stock outstanding, which is net of 5,775,752 shares of common stock held in treasury. Our employees own 14% of our outstanding common stock and 22% on a fully diluted 13 Table of Contents basis assuming all outstanding restricted stock units vested as of December 31, 2010. There are no restrictions on the sale of the shares held by our employees other than “black-out” periods imposed by us between earnings releases. A significant portion of the compensation of our managing directors is paid in restricted stock units and the shares we expect to issue on the vesting of those restricted stock units could result in a significant increase in the number of shares of common stock outstanding We award restricted stock units, as part of the annual bonus and incentive compensation, to managing directors and other employees. We also award restricted stock units as a long term incentive to new hires at the time they join the firm. At December 31, 2010, 2,813,567 restricted stock units were outstanding and an additional 919,768 restricted stock units were granted to employees subsequent to year end as part of the long-term incentive award component of our annual compensation package. Each restricted stock unit represents the holder’s right to receive one share of our common stock or a cash payment equal to the fair value thereof, at our election, following the applicable vesting date. Awards of restricted stock units to our managing directors and other employees generally vest either ratably over a five year period beginning on the first anniversary of the grant date or do not vest until the fifth anniversary of their grant date, when they vest in full. Shares will be issued in respect of restricted stock units only under the circumstances specified in the applicable award agreements and the equity incentive plan, and may be forfeited in certain cases. Assuming all of the conditions to vesting are fulfilled, shares in respect of the 2,813,567 restricted stock units that were outstanding as of December 31, 2010 would be issued as follows: 695,855 shares in 2011, 438,865 shares in 2012, 452,582 shares in 2013, 853,880 shares in 2014, and 372,385 shares in 2015. In addition, in connection with the acquisition of Caliburn we granted 212,625 restricted stock units of which 127,575 will vest in April 2013 and 85,050 will vest in April 2015, subject to the achievement of certain revenue performance targets. We have generally repurchased a portion of the common stock issued to our employees upon vesting of restricted stock units to permit the payment of tax liabilities. Further, we have historically repurchased in the open market and through privately negotiated transactions a significant number of our shares of common stock. If we were to cease to or were unable to repurchase shares of common stock, the number of shares outstanding would increase over time, diluting the ownership of our existing stockholders. The market price of our common stock may decline The price of the common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including the perceived prospects of Greenhill and the financial services industry in general, differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors, the performance of our investments in merchant banking funds and Iridium, changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. Since a significant portion of the compensation of our managing directors and certain other employees is paid in restricted stock units, a decline in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, including our managing directors. Similarly, our ability to recruit new managing directors may be adversely affected by a decline in the price of our stock. We have experienced rapid growth over the past several years, which may be difficult to sustain and which may place significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources Our future growth will depend, among other things, on our ability to successfully identify practice groups and individuals to join our firm. It may take more than one year for us to determine whether new professionals will be effective. During that time, we may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources toward training, integration and business development. If we are unable to hire and retain successful professionals, we will not be able to implement our growth strategy and our financial results may be materially adversely affected. Sustaining growth will also require us to commit additional management, operational, and financial resources to this growth and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately 14 Table of Contents support expansion. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to maintain or accelerate our growth and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses. Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements We have made statements under the captions “Business”, “Risk Factors”, and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in other sections of this Form 10-K that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “may”, “might”, “will”, “should”, “expect”, “plan”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “estimate”, “intend”, “predict”, “potential” or “continue”, the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance, based on our growth strategies and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from the results, level of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In particular, you should consider the numerous risks outlined under “Risk Factors”. These risks are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K may include additional factors which could adversely impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for our management to predict all risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We are under no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this filing to conform our prior statements to actual results or revised expectations. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: • the statement about new managing directors over time adding incrementally to our revenue and income growth potential in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview”; • the statements that we will continue to recruit senior bankers on an opportunistic basis and that our priority in the near term will be to realize the benefits of our expansion as transaction activity rebounds and seek to return towards our historic cost ratios in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Business Environment”; • the statement about our simple business model as an independent, unconflicted advisor will continue to create opportunities for us to attract new clients and increase our market share in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Business Environment”; • the statement about our belief that we are well positioned to benefit once general transaction and fund raising activity returns towards historic normal levels “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Business Environment”; • the statement that unless there are significant gains in the value of the portfolio companies in each fund it is not likely that the profit thresholds for each fund will be exceeded and accordingly is not likely that profit override revenue will be recognized in “Management’s 15 Table of Contents Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Merchant Banking and Other Investment Revenues”; • the statement about our objective to return to our stated policy of a ration of compensation to revenue not to exceed 50% in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Compensation and Benefits Expenses”; • the statement that over the long-term we expect that our non-compensation costs, particularly occupancy, travel and information services costs, will increase as we grow our business and make strategic investments “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Non-Compensation Costs Expenses”; • the statement that we believe that we will fully use our tax loss carryforwards in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Provision for Income Taxes”; • the statement that unless the funds realize significant gains it is not likely that the earnings of any funds will exceed their profit thresholds and, therefore, we currently do not expect to recognize any profit override revenue in future periods in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”; • the statement that we expect approximately $1.5 million of the firm’s unfunded commitment to GCP II of $7.9 million may be drawn down for follow-on investments through June 2012 in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”; • the statement that we generally roll over the maturity date of our revolving loan facility annually and expect to do so on or prior to the scheduled maturity of April 30, 2011 in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”; • the statement about the possibility that we could be required to repatriate funds to the U.S, liquidate some of our principal investments or issue additional securities, or a combination of each, in each case in terms that may not be favorable to us in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”; • the statement that over the next five years we plan to liquidate our investments in the merchant banking funds, Iridium and other investments in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Liquidity and Capital Resources”; • the statement about our intention to monetize our position in Iridium in a disciplined manner over time dependent on market conditions in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”; • the statement about our expectation to fund our repurchase of shares as we realize proceeds from our investments and/or generate operating cash flow as transaction activity further rebounds in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”; • the statement that we believe that the cash generated from operations and funds available from the revolving bank loan facility will be sufficient to meet our expected operating needs, commitments to our merchant banking activities, build-out costs of new office space, tax obligations, share repurchases and common dividends and we may adjust our variable expenses and non-recurring disbursements, if necessary, to meet our liquidity needs in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”; and • the statement that in the event that we are not able to meet our liquidity needs, we may consider a range of financing alternatives to meet such needs in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of the year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Act of 1934. 