ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may have difficulty financing our planned capital expenditures which could adversely affect our growth. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, substantial capital expenditure and working capital needs, primarily as a result of our drilling program. We intend to continue to selectively increase our acreage position, which would require capital in addition to the capital necessary to drill on our existing acreage. In addition, it is likely that we will acquire acreage in other areas that we believe are prospective for oil and natural gas production and expend capital to develop such acreage. We expect to use borrowings under our Senior Credit Agreement, proceeds from additional potential non-core asset dispositions and proceeds from potential future capital markets transactions, if necessary, to fund capital expenditures that are in excess of our cash flow and cash on hand. Our Senior Credit Agreement limits our borrowings to the lesser of the borrowing base and the total commitments. As of December 31, 2013, our Senior Credit Agreement was a $1.5 billion facility with a borrowing base of $700.0 million. As of December 31, 2013, we had no borrowings outstanding, $1.2 million letters of credit outstanding and $698.8 million of borrowing capacity, of which approximately $629 million was available to us under the indebtedness limitation in our indentures. Our borrowing base is determined semi-annually, and may also be redetermined periodically at the discretion of the banks. Lower oil and natural gas prices may result in a reduction in our borrowing base at the next redetermination. A reduction in our borrowing base could require us to repay any indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base. Additionally, the indentures governing our senior unsecured debt contain covenants limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, including borrowings under our Senior Credit Agreement, unless we meet one of two alternative tests. The first test applies to all indebtedness and requires that, after giving effect to the incurrence of additional debt, our fixed charge coverage ratio (which is the ratio of our adjusted consolidated EBITDA (as defined in our indentures) to our adjusted consolidated interest expense over the trailing four fiscal quarters) will be at least 2.0 to 1.0. The second test applies only to borrowings under our credit 26 Table of Contents agreements, including indentures and our Senior Credit Agreement that do not meet the first test and it limits these borrowings to the greater of a fixed sum of $750 million and 30% of our adjusted consolidated net tangible assets (or ACNTA, as defined in our indentures), which is determined primarily by the value of discounted future net revenues from proved oil and natural gas reserves. Currently, we are permitted to incur additional indebtedness under these incurrence tests, but may be limited in the future. Lower oil and natural gas prices in the future could reduce our adjusted consolidated EBITDA, as well as our adjusted consolidated net tangible assets, and thus could reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, the restrictive covenants under our indentures limited our incurrence of indebtedness, including all amounts then outstanding under our Senior Credit Agreement, to approximately $629 million. These limitations will continue unless we increase our fixed charge coverage ratio (as defined in the indentures) above the minimum specified level or grow our reserve and asset base. Accordingly, in the near term, we will be required to manage our capital expenditures within this limit, which may require us to defer or delay some of our planned expenditures. As a result of these covenants, in the near term we do not expect to be able to borrow the full amount of our borrowing base under our Senior Credit Agreement. On October 31, 2013, we entered into the Sixth Amendment to our Senior Credit Agreement. Among other things, the sixth amendment provides for EBITDA to be annualized for the next three fiscal quarters for purposes of measuring compliance with the interest coverage test. Specifically, for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2013, the interest coverage test was calculated by utilizing EBITDA for the three month period then ended multiplied by 4; for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2014, it will be calculated by utilizing EBITDA for the six month period then ended multiplied by 2; and for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2014, it will be calculated by utilizing EBITDA for the nine month period then ended multiplied by 1.333. In the event we have difficulty in meeting these tests or the current ratio test in the future, we would be required to seek additional relief, and there is no assurance that it would be granted. Additionally, our ability to complete future equity offerings is limited by general market conditions. If we are not able to borrow sufficient amounts under our Senior Credit Agreement and/or are unable to raise sufficient capital to fund our capital expenditures, we may be required to curtail our drilling, development, land acquisition and other activities, which could result in a decrease in our production of oil and natural gas, forfeiture of leasehold interests if we are unable or unwilling to renew them, and could force us to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our results and future operations. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and low prices could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our revenues, profitability and future growth and the carrying value of our properties depend substantially on prevailing oil and natural gas prices. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount we will be able to borrow under our Senior Credit Agreement will be subject to periodic redetermination based in part on current oil and natural gas prices and on changing expectations of future prices. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can economically produce and have an adverse effect on the value of our properties. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Among the factors that can cause volatility are: •the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; •the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other producing countries to agree upon and maintain oil prices and production levels; 27 Table of Contents •social unrest and political instability, particularly in major oil and natural gas producing regions outside the United States, such as the Middle East, and armed conflict or terrorist attacks, whether or not in oil or natural gas producing regions; •the level of consumer product demand; •the growth of consumer product demand in emerging markets, such as China; •labor unrest in oil and natural gas producing regions; •weather conditions, including hurricanes and other natural occurrences that affect the supply and/or demand of oil and natural gas; •the price and availability of alternative fuels; •the price of foreign imports; •worldwide economic conditions; and •the availability of liquid natural gas imports. These external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to estimate future prices of oil and natural gas. We are subject to various contractual limitations that affect the discretion of our management in operating our business. The indentures governing our senior unsecured debt and our Senior Credit Agreement and the certificate of designations governing our convertible preferred stock contain various provisions that may limit our management's discretion in certain respects. In particular, these agreements limit our and our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things: •pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase shares of our common stock and, under certain circumstances, our convertible preferred stock, and redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; •make loans to others; •make investments; •incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock that is senior to our convertible preferred stock as to dividends or rights upon liquidation, winding-up or dissolution; •create certain liens; •sell assets; •enter into agreements that restrict dividends or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; •consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and those of our restricted subsidiaries taken as a whole; •engage in transactions with affiliates; •enter into hedging contracts; •create unrestricted subsidiaries; and •enter into sale and leaseback transactions. Additionally, if dividends on our convertible preferred stock are in arrears and unpaid for six or more quarterly periods, the holders (voting as a single class) of our outstanding preferred stock will be entitled to elect two additional directors to our Board of Directors until paid in full. Compliance with these and other limitations may limit our ability to operate and finance our business and engage in certain transactions in the manner we might otherwise. In addition, if we fail to comply with the limitations under our indentures or Senior Credit Agreement, our creditors, if the 28 Table of Contents agreements so provide, may accelerate the related indebtedness as well as any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to make further funds available to us. Offers or sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by our shareholders may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In satisfaction of pre-existing contractual obligations, we recently filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 covering the potential resale by certain selling stockholders of approximately 158.0 million shares of our common stock, and have previously filed similar resale registration statements in lesser amounts for other shareholders. The ability of our shareholders to sell significant numbers of shares of our common stock in the public market pursuant to such registration statements or upon the expiration of lock up agreements or statutory holding periods under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, together with any actual sales of our common stock they may choose to make, could cause the market price of our common stock to fall and could make it more difficult for us to raise additional financing through future sales of equity or equity-related securities at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. If we were to experience an ownership change, we could be limited in our ability to use net operating losses arising prior to the ownership change to offset future taxable income. If we were to experience an "ownership change," as determined under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, our ability to offset taxable income arising after the ownership change with net operating losses (NOLs) arising prior to the ownership change would be limited, possibly substantially. An ownership change would establish an annual limitation on the amount of our pre-change NOLs we could utilize to offset our taxable income in any future taxable year to an amount generally equal to the value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate. We depend on computer and telecommunications systems and failures in our systems or cyber security attacks could significantly disrupt our business operations. We have entered into agreements with third parties for hardware, software, telecommunications and other information technology services in connection with our business. In addition, we have developed proprietary software systems, management techniques and other information technologies incorporating software licensed from third parties. It is possible we could incur interruptions from cyber security attacks, computer viruses or malware. We believe that we have positive relations with our related vendors and maintain adequate anti-virus and malware software and controls; however, any interruptions to our arrangements with third parties to our computing and communications infrastructure or our information systems could significantly disrupt our business operations. We will be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions, and the integration of significant acquisitions may be difficult. Our business plan contemplates significant acquisitions of reserves, properties, prospects and leaseholds and other strategic transactions that appear to fit within our overall business strategy, which may include the acquisition of asset packages of producing properties or existing companies or businesses operating in our industry. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including: •recoverable reserves; •future oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices and their appropriate differentials; •development and operating costs; and •potential environmental and other liabilities. 29 Table of Contents The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and potential recoverable reserves. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We are generally not able to obtain contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and normally acquire properties on an "as is" basis. Significant acquisitions of existing companies or businesses and other strategic transactions may involve additional risks, including: •diversion of our management's attention to evaluating, negotiating and integrating significant acquisitions and strategic transactions; •the challenge and cost of integrating acquired operations, information management and other technology systems and business cultures with our own while carrying on our ongoing business; •difficulty associated with coordinating geographically separate organizations; •the challenge of integrating environmental compliance systems to meet requirements of rapidly changing regulations; •the challenge of attracting and retaining personnel associated with acquired operations; and •failure to realize the full benefit that we expect in estimated proved reserves, production volume, cost savings from operating synergies or other benefits anticipated from an acquisition, or to realize these benefits within our expected time frame. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business. If our senior management is not able to manage the integration process effectively, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Assets we acquire may prove to be worth less than we paid because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our recent growth is due significantly to acquisitions of exploration and production companies, producing properties and undeveloped and unevaluated leaseholds. We expect acquisitions may also contribute to our future growth. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil and natural gas prices, operating and capital costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties which we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect every well. Even when we inspect a well, we do not always discover structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise. We are generally not entitled to contractual indemnification for preclosing liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Normally, we acquire interests in properties on an "as is" basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to acquire oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or be able to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms. 30 Table of Contents We have substantial indebtedness and may incur substantially more debt. Higher levels of indebtedness make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. We have incurred substantial debt amounting to approximately $3.2 billion as of December 31, 2013. As a result of our indebtedness, we will need to use a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay interest, which will reduce the amount we will have available to finance our operations and other business activities and could limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Our indebtedness under our Senior Credit Agreement is at a variable interest rate, and so a rise in interest rates will generate greater interest expense to the extent we do not have hedging arrangements that are effective in mitigating interest rate fluctuations. The amount of our debt may also cause us to be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. We may incur substantially more debt in the future. The indentures governing our outstanding senior notes contain restrictions on our incurrence of additional indebtedness. These restrictions, however, are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, we could incur substantial additional indebtedness in compliance with these restrictions. Moreover, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute "indebtedness" as defined under the indentures. At December 31, 2013, our Senior Credit Agreement was a $1.5 billion facility with a borrowing base of $700.0 million. As of December 31, 2013, we had no borrowings outstanding, $1.2 million of letters of credit outstanding and $698.8 million of borrowing capacity, of which approximately $629 million was available to us under the indebtedness limitation in our indentures. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and other expenses will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors, many of which we are unable to control. If our cash flow is not sufficient to service our debt, we may be required to refinance debt, sell assets or sell additional shares of common stock on terms that we may not find attractive if it may be done at all. Further, our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants relating to our indebtedness could result in a default under that indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A downgrade in our credit rating could negatively impact our cost of and ability to access capital. At December 31, 2013, our corporate credit rating was "B" with a stable outlook by Standard and Poor's (S&P) and "B3" with a stable outlook by Moody's Investors Service (Moody's). Although we are not aware of any current plans of these or other rating agencies to lower their respective ratings on us or our senior debt, we cannot be assured that our credit ratings will not be downgraded. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively impact our cost of capital and our ability to effectively execute aspects of our strategy. If our credit rating were downgraded, it could be difficult for us to raise debt in the public debt markets and the cost of that new debt could be higher than debt we could raise with our current ratings. In addition, a downgrade could impact requirements for us to provide financial assurance of performance under contractual arrangements or derivative agreements. We may not be able to drill wells on a substantial portion of our acreage. We may not be able to drill on a substantial portion of our acreage for various reasons. We may not generate or be able to raise sufficient capital to do so. Future deterioration in commodities pricing may also make drilling some acreage uneconomic. Our actual drilling activities and future drilling budget will depend on drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, regulatory approvals and other factors. In addition, any drilling activities we are able to conduct may not be successful or add additional proved reserves to our overall proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Part of our strategy involves drilling in shale formations, some of which are new and emerging, using horizontal drilling and completion techniques. The results of our drilling program using these techniques may be subject to more uncertainties than conventional drilling programs, especially in areas that are new and emerging. These uncertainties could result in an inability to meet our expectations for reserves and production. The results of our drilling in new or emerging formations, such as the Utica / Point Pleasant formations, Bakken / Three Forks formations, Tuscaloosa Marine Shale formation and the El Halcón area are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. Newer or emerging formations and areas have limited or no production history and consequently we are less able to predict drilling results in these areas. In addition, the use of horizontal drilling and completion techniques used in all of our shale formations involve certain risks and complexities that do not exist in conventional wells. The ultimate success of our drilling and completion strategies and techniques will be better evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are better established. If our drilling results are less than anticipated our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as we anticipate and we could incur material write downs of unevaluated properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage. As of December 31, 2013, we owned leasehold interests in approximately 149,000 net acres in areas we believe are prospective for the Bakken / Three Forks formations, approximately 94,000 net acres in areas we believe are prospective for the El Halcón area, approximately 169,000 net acres in areas we believe are prospective for the Tuscaloosa Marine Shale formation and 140,000 net acres in areas we believe are prospective for the Utica / Point Pleasant formations. A large portion of our acreage is not currently held by production. Unless production in paying quantities is established on units containing these leases during their terms, these leases will expire. If our leases expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. Our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change based upon various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, and regulatory approvals. Further, some of our acreage is located in sections where we do not hold the majority of the acreage and therefore it is likely that we will not be named operator of these sections. As a non-operating leaseholder we have less control over the timing of drilling and are therefore subject to additional risk of expirations. Our ability to sell our production and/or receive market prices for our production may be adversely affected by transportation capacity constraints and interruptions. If the amount of natural gas, condensate or oil being produced by us and others exceeds the capacity of the various transportation pipelines and gathering systems available in our operating areas, it will be necessary for new transportation pipelines and gathering systems to be built. Or, in the case of oil and condensate, it will be necessary for us to rely more heavily on trucks to transport our production, which is more expensive and less efficient than transportation via pipeline. Currently, we anticipate that additional pipeline capacity will be required in the Bakken / Three Forks formations and the El Halcón area to transport oil and condensate production, which increased substantially during 2012 and 2013 and is expected to continue to increase. The construction of new pipelines and gathering systems is capital intensive and construction may be postponed, interrupted or cancelled in response to changing economic conditions and the availability and cost of capital. In addition, capital constraints could limit our ability to build gathering systems to transport our production to transportation 32 Table of Contents pipelines. In such event, costs to transport our production may increase materially or we might have to shut in our wells awaiting a pipeline connection or capacity and/or sell our production at much lower prices than market or than we currently project, which would adversely affect our results of operations. A portion of our production may also be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous other reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, accidents, loss of pipeline or gathering system access, field labor issues or strikes, or we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions. If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted at the same time, it could adversely affect our cash flow. Unless we replace our reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Decline rates are typically greatest early in the productive life of a well. Estimates of the decline rate of an oil or natural gas well are inherently imprecise, and are less precise with respect to new or emerging oil and natural gas formations with limited production histories than for more developed formations with established production histories. Our production levels and the reserves that we currently expect to recover from our wells will change if production from our existing wells declines in a different manner than we have estimated and can change under other circumstances. Thus, our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and results of operations are highly dependent upon our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current properties and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, our cash flows and the value of our reserves may decrease, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. Estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves involve assumptions and any material inaccuracies in these assumptions will materially affect the quantities and the value of our reserves. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and the value of our reserves. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. At December 31, 2013, approximately 60% of our estimated reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop our reserves. The estimates of these oil and natural gas reserves and the costs associated with development of these reserves have been prepared in accordance with SEC regulations, however, actual capital expenditures will likely vary from estimated capital expenditures, development may not occur as scheduled and actual results may not be as estimated. 33 Table of Contents We depend substantially on the continued presence of key personnel for critical management decisions and industry contacts. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and key employees, particularly with respect to providing the critical management decisions and contacts necessary to manage and maintain growth within a highly competitive industry. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, particularly in the oil and natural gas industry, and there are a limited number of people with the requisite knowledge and experience. Under these conditions, we could be unable to attract and retain these personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our business is highly competitive. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive in many respects, including identification of attractive oil and natural gas properties for acquisition, drilling and development, securing financing for such activities and obtaining the necessary equipment and personnel to conduct such operations and activities. In seeking suitable opportunities, we compete with a number of other companies, including large oil and natural gas companies and other independent operators with greater financial resources, larger numbers of personnel and facilities, and, in some cases, with more expertise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with these entities. Our oil and natural gas activities are subject to various risks which are beyond our control. Our operations are subject to many risks and hazards incident to exploring and drilling for, producing, transporting, marketing and selling oil and natural gas. Although we may take precautionary measures, many of these risks and hazards are beyond our control and unavoidable under the circumstances. Many of these risks or hazards could materially and adversely affect our revenues and expenses, the ability of certain of our wells to produce oil and natural gas in commercial quantities, the rate of production and the economics of the development of, and our investment in the prospects in which we have or will acquire an interest. Any of these risks and hazards could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such risks and hazards include: •human error, accidents, labor force and other factors beyond our control that may cause personal injuries or death to persons and destruction or damage to equipment and facilities; •blowouts, fires, hurricanes, pollution and equipment failures that may result in damage to or destruction of wells, producing formations, production facilities and equipment; •unavailability of materials and equipment; •engineering and construction delays; •unanticipated transportation costs and delays; •unfavorable weather conditions; •hazards resulting from unusual or unexpected geological or environmental conditions; •environmental regulations and requirements; •accidental leakage of toxic or hazardous materials, such as petroleum liquids or drilling fluids, into the environment; •hazards resulting from the presence of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) or other contaminants in gas we produce; 34 Table of Contents •changes in laws and regulations, including laws and regulations applicable to oil and natural gas activities or markets for the oil and natural gas produced; •fluctuations in supply and demand for oil and natural gas causing variations of the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production; and •the availability of alternative fuels and the price at which they become available. As a result of these risks, expenditures, quantities and rates of production, revenues and operating costs may be materially adversely affected and may differ materially from those anticipated by us. Our exploration and development drilling efforts and the operation of our wells may not be profitable or achieve our targeted returns. We require significant amounts of undeveloped leasehold acreage to further our development efforts. Exploration, development, drilling and production activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that commercially productive reservoirs will not be discovered. We invest in property, including undeveloped leasehold acreage, which we believe will result in projects that will add value over time. However, we cannot guarantee that our leasehold acreage will be profitably developed, that new wells drilled by us will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such leasehold acreage or wells. Drilling for oil and natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit after deducting operating and other costs. In addition, wells that are profitable may not achieve our targeted rate of return. Our ability to achieve our target results are dependent upon the current and future market prices for oil and natural gas, costs associated with producing oil and natural gas and our ability to add reserves at an acceptable cost. In addition, we may not be successful in controlling our drilling and production costs to improve our overall return. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. We cannot predict the cost of drilling and completing a well, and we may be forced to limit, delay or cancel drilling operations as a result of a variety of factors, including: •unexpected drilling conditions; •pressure or irregularities in formations; •equipment failures or accidents and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling and completion equipment and services; •adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes; and •compliance with governmental requirements. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Companies that explore for and develop, produce, sell and transport oil and natural gas in the United States are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including complex tax and environmental, health and safety laws and the corresponding regulations, and are required to obtain various permits and approvals from federal, state and local agencies. If these permits are not issued or unfavorable restrictions or conditions are imposed on our drilling activities, we may not be able to conduct our operations as planned. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with governmental regulations. Matters subject to regulation include: •water discharge and disposal permits for drilling operations; •drilling bonds; •drilling permits; 35 Table of Contents •reports concerning operations; •air quality, noise levels and related permits; •spacing of wells; •rights-of-way and easements; •unitization and pooling of properties; •pipeline construction; •gathering, transportation and marketing of oil and natural gas; •taxation; and •waste transport and disposal permits and requirements. Failure to comply with these laws may result in the suspension or termination of operations and subject us to liabilities under administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Compliance costs can be significant. Moreover, these laws or the enforcement thereof could change in ways that substantially increase the costs of doing business. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under these laws and other environmental health and safety laws and regulations, we could be held liable for personal injuries, property damage (including site clean-up and restoration costs) and other damages including the assessment of natural resource damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may also result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Some laws and regulations may impose strict as well as joint and several liability for environmental contamination, which could subject us to liability for the conduct of others or for our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time such actions were taken. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations also increase the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon oil and natural gas wells. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed, with some success, certain drilling projects. Part of the regulatory environment in which we operate includes, in some cases, federal requirements for performing or preparing environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before commencing exploration and production activities. In addition, our activities are subject to regulation by oil and natural gas-producing states relating to conservation practices and protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect our operations and limit the quantity of oil and natural gas we may produce and sell. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or necessary permits, the failure to obtain a permit or the receipt of a permit with excessive conditions or costs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to explore on, develop or produce our properties. Additionally, the oil and natural gas regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and managerial costs to comply with the requirements of these laws and regulations and, consequently, adversely affect our profitability. Federal, state and local legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. From time to time, legislation has been proposed in Congress to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require federal permitting of hydraulic fracturing and the disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. We engage third parties to provide hydraulic fracturing or other well stimulation services to us in connection with many of the wells for which we are the operator. Federal, state, tribal and local governments have been adopting or considering restrictions on or prohibitions of fracturing are adopted in areas where we currently conduct operations, or in the future plan to conduct operations, we could be subject to additional levels of regulation, operational delays or increased 36 Table of Contents operating costs and could have additional regulatory burdens imposed upon us that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. At the Federal level, for example, the EPA is conducting a wide-ranging study on the effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. In December 2012, the EPA issued a progress report describing its ongoing study, and announcing its expectation that a final draft report will be released for public comment and peer review in 2014. Other governmental reviews have also been recently conducted or are under way that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing, including for example, a federal Bureau of Land Management rulemaking for hydraulic fracturing practices on federal and Indian lands that has resulted in a May 2013 proposal that would require public disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian lands, confirmation that the wells used in fracturing operations meet proper construction standards and development of plans for managing flowback water from such activities. These activities could result in additional regulatory scrutiny that could make it difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. Certain states likewise have adopted, and other states are considering the adoption of, regulations, including Texas and Pennsylvania, where we conduct operations, that impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. In addition to state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. Such efforts have extended to bans on hydraulic fracturing. On December 19, 2013, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court overturned several portions of Pennsylvania's law regulating hydraulic fracturing, allowing local governments in Pennsylvania to regulate hydraulic fracturing through local land use regulations. Other local jurisdictions, including Dallas, Texas and several cities in Colorado have adopted regulations restricting hydraulic fracturing. The proliferation of regulations may limit our ability to operate. Regulation related to global warming and climate change could have an adverse effect on our operations and demand for oil and natural gas. Studies over recent years have indicated that emissions of certain gases may be contributing to warming of the Earth's atmosphere. In response to these studies, governments have begun adopting domestic and international climate change regulations that requires reporting and reductions of the emission of greenhouse gases. Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of the burning of oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products, are considered greenhouse gases. Internationally, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and the Kyoto Protocol address greenhouse gas emissions, and several countries, including those comprising the European Union, have established greenhouse gas regulatory systems. In the United States, at the state level, many states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories, emission targets, greenhouse gas cap and trade programs or incentives for renewable energy generation, while others have considered adopting such greenhouse gas programs. The EPA has issued greenhouse gas monitoring and reporting regulations that went into effect January 1, 2010, and required reporting by regulated facilities by March 2011 and annually thereafter. In November 2010, the EPA issued a final rule requiring companies to report certain greenhouse gas emissions from oil and natural gas facilities. On July 19, 2011, the EPA amended the oil and natural gas facility greenhouse gas reporting rule to require reporting beginning in September 2012. Beyond measuring and reporting, the EPA issued an "Endangerment Finding" under section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act, concluding greenhouse gas pollution threatens the public health and welfare of current and future generations. The finding served as the first step to issuing regulations that require permits for and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for certain facilities. Recently, the EPA issued four new 37 Table of Contents regulations for the oil and natural gas industry, including: a new source performance standard for volatile organic compounds (VOCs); a new source performance standard for sulfur dioxide; an air toxics standard for oil and natural gas production; and an air toxics standard for natural gas transmission and storage. The final rule includes the first federal air standards for natural gas wells that are hydraulically fractured, or refractured, as well as requirements for several sources, such as storage tanks and other equipment, and limits methane emissions from these sources. Compliance with these regulations will impose additional requirements and costs on our operations. In the courts, several decisions have been issued that may increase the risk of claims being filed by governments and private parties against companies that have significant greenhouse gas emissions. Such cases may seek to challenge air emissions permits that greenhouse gas emitters apply for and seek to force emitters to reduce their emissions or seek damages for alleged climate change impacts to the environment, people, and property. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur additional operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions or other compliance costs, and reduce demand for our products. Operations on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation of the Three Affiliated Tribes in North Dakota are subject to various federal and tribal regulations and laws, any of which may increase our costs and delay our operations. Various federal agencies within the U.S. Department of the Interior, particularly the Office of Natural Resources Revenue (formerly the Minerals Management Service) and the Bureau of Indian Affairs, along with the Three Affiliated Tribes, promulgate and enforce regulations pertaining to operations on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation on which we hold approximately 30,000 net acres. In addition, the Three Affiliated Tribes is a sovereign nation having the right to enforce laws and regulations independent from federal, state and local statutes and regulations. These tribal laws and regulations include various taxes, fees and other conditions that apply to lessees, operators and contractors conducting operations on Native American tribal lands. Lessees and operators conducting operations on tribal lands are generally subject to the Native American tribal court system. One or more of these factors may increase our costs of doing business on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation and may have an adverse impact on our ability to effectively transport products within the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation or to conduct our operations on such lands. The ongoing implementation of federal legislation enacted in 2010 could have an adverse impact on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effects of commodity prices, interest rates and other risks associated with our business. Historically, we have entered into a number of commodity derivative contracts in order to hedge a portion of our oil and natural gas production and, periodically, interest expense. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, which requires the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (or CFTC), along with other federal agencies, to promulgate regulations implementing the new legislation. The CFTC, in coordination with the SEC and various US federal banking regulators, has issued regulations to implement the so-called "Volcker Rule" under which banking entities are generally prohibited from proprietary trading of derivatives. Although conditional exemptions from this general prohibition are available, the Volcker Rule may limit the trading activities of banking entities that have been counterparties to our derivatives trades in the past. Also, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act known as the "swaps push-out rule" may require some of the banking counterparties to our commodity derivative contracts to "push out" some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. 38 Table of Contents The CFTC also has finalized other regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act's provisions regarding trade reporting, margin and position limits; however, some regulations remain to be finalized and it is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will adopt final rules. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act and the CFTC regulations may require compliance with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with certain of our derivative activities. Also, the CFTC has re-proposed regulations setting position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions are expected to be made exempt from these limits. It is possible that the CFTC, in conjunction with the US federal banking regulators, may mandate that financial counterparties entering into swap transactions with end-users must do so with credit support agreements in place, which could result in negotiated credit thresholds above which we would be required to post collateral. The Dodd-Frank Act and any additional implementing regulations could significantly increase the cost of some commodity derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of some commodity derivative contracts, limit our ability to trade some derivatives to hedge risks, reduce the availability of some derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing commodity derivative contracts, and potentially increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a consequence, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. If the implementing regulations result in lower commodity prices, our revenues could be adversely affected. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot be certain that the insurance coverage maintained by us will be adequate to cover all losses that may be sustained in connection with all oil and natural gas activities. We maintain general and excess liability policies, which we consider to be reasonable and consistent with industry standards. These policies generally cover: •personal injury; •bodily injury; •third party property damage; •medical expenses; •legal defense costs; •pollution in some cases; •well blowouts in some cases; and •workers compensation. As is common in the oil and natural gas industry, we will not insure fully against all risks associated with our business either because such insurance is not available or because we believe the premium costs are prohibitive. A loss not fully covered by insurance could have a materially adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. There can be no assurance that the insurance coverage that we maintain will be sufficient to cover claims made against us in the future. 39 Table of Contents Title to the properties in which we have an interest may be impaired by title defects. We generally obtain title opinions on significant properties that we drill or acquire. However, there is no assurance that we will not suffer a monetary loss from title defects or title failure. Additionally, undeveloped acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage. Generally, under the terms of the operating agreements affecting our properties, any monetary loss is to be borne by all parties to any such agreement in proportion to their interests in such property. If there are any title defects or defects in assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which we hold an interest, we will suffer a financial loss. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, pressure pumping equipment and crews, other equipment, supplies, water, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, water or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling rig crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. Increasing levels of exploration and production may increase the demand for oilfield services and equipment, and the costs of these services and equipment may increase, while the quality of these services and equipment may suffer. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, pressure pumping equipment, supplies or qualified personnel can materially and adversely affect our operations and profitability. In order to secure drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment, we have entered into certain contracts that extend over several months and or years. If demand for drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment subside during the period covered by these contracts, the price we are required to pay may be significantly more than the market rate for similar services. We depend on the skill, ability and decisions of third-party operators of the oil and natural gas properties in which we have a non-operated working interest. The success of the drilling, development and production of the oil and natural gas properties in which we have or expect to have a non-operating working interest is substantially dependent upon the decisions of such third-party operators and their diligence to comply with various laws, rules and regulations affecting such properties. The failure of any third-party operator to make decisions, perform their services, discharge their obligations, deal with regulatory agencies, and comply with laws, rules and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations in a proper manner with respect to properties in which we have an interest could result in material adverse consequences to our interest in such properties, including substantial penalties and compliance costs. Such adverse consequences could result in substantial liabilities to us or reduce the value of our properties, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids production, we have entered into oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our anticipated production and we may enter into additional hedging transactions in the future. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses if oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: •our production is less than expected; 40 Table of Contents •there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production; or •the counterparties to our hedging agreements fail to perform under the contracts. We may be required to take non-cash asset write downs. We may be required under full cost accounting rules to write down the carrying value of oil and natural gas properties if oil and natural gas prices decline or if there are substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of development costs or deterioration in our exploration results. We utilize the full cost method of accounting for oil and natural gas exploration and development activities. Under full cost accounting, we are required by SEC regulations to perform a ceiling test each quarter. The ceiling test is an impairment test and generally establishes a maximum, or "ceiling," of the book value of oil and natural gas properties that is equal to the expected after tax present value (discounted at 10%) of the future net cash flows from proved reserves, including the effect of cash flow hedges when hedge accounting is applied, calculated using the unweighted arithmetic average of the first day of each month for the 12-month period ending at the balance sheet date. If the net book value of oil and natural gas properties (reduced by any related net deferred income tax liability and asset retirement obligation) exceeds the ceiling limitation, SEC regulations require us to impair or "write down" the book value of our oil and natural gas properties. As of September 30, 2013, the net book value of our oil and natural gas properties exceeded our ceiling amount by $909.1 million, using the WTI unweighted 12-month average price $95.20 per Bbl and the Henry Hub unweighted 12-month average of $3.61 per MMBtu resulting in a write-down of our oil and natural gas properties before income taxes. As of December 31, 2013, the net book value of our oil and natural gas properties exceeded our ceiling amount by $238.7 million using the WTI unweighted 12-month average price $96.94 per Bbl and the Henry Hub unweighted 12-month average of $3.670 per MMBtu resulting in a write-down of our oil and natural gas properties before income taxes. As ceiling test computations depend upon the calculated unweighted arithmetic average prices, it is impossible to predict the likelihood, timing and magnitude of any future impairments. Depending on the magnitude, a ceiling test write down could negatively affect our results of operations. Costs associated with unevaluated properties, which were approximately $2.0 billion at December 31, 2013, are not initially subject to the ceiling test limitation. Rather, we assess all items classified as unevaluated property on a quarterly basis for possible impairment or reduction in value based upon our intentions with respect to drilling on such properties, the remaining lease term, geological and geophysical evaluations, drilling results, the assignment of proved reserves, and the economic viability of development if proved reserves are assigned. These factors are significantly influenced by our expectations regarding future commodity prices, development costs, and access to capital at acceptable cost. During any period in which these factors indicate impairment, the cumulative drilling costs incurred to date for such property and all or a portion of the associated leasehold costs are transferred to the full cost pool and are then subject to amortization and the ceiling test limitation. Accordingly, a significant change in these factors, many of which are beyond our control, may shift a significant amount of cost from unevaluated properties into the full cost pool that is subject to amortization and the ceiling test limitation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 