RISK FACTORS The information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Forward-looking statements are statements other than statements of historical or present facts, that address activities, events, outcomes, and other matters that the Company plans, expects, intends, assumes, believes, budgets, predicts, forecasts, projects, estimates, or anticipates (and other similar expressions) will, should, or may occur in the future. Generally, the words "expects," "anticipates," "targets," "goals," "projects," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "could," "should," "future," "potential," "continue," variations of such words, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These forward-loo king statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions about future events and are based on currently available information as to the outcome and timing of future events. These forward-looking statements appear in a number of places and include statements with respect to, among other things: · estimates of our oil and gas reserves; · estimates of our future oil and natural gas production, including estimates of any increases or decreases in our production; · our future financial condition and results of operations; · our future revenues, cash flows and expenses; · our access to capital and our anticipated liquidity; · our future business strategy and other plans and objectives for future operations; · our outlook on oil and gas prices; · the amount, nature and timing of future capital expenditures, including future development costs; · our ability to access the capital markets to fund capital and other expenditures; · our assessment of our counterparty risk and the ability of our counterparties to perform their future obligations; and · the impact of federal, state and local political, regulatory and environmental developments in the United States and certain foreign locations where we conduct business operations. We believe the expectations and forecasts reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, but we can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct. We caution you that these forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions and are subject to all of the risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control, incident to the exploration for and development, production, and sale of oil and gas. See "Risk Factors" for a description of various, but by no means all, factors that could materially affect our ability to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. There is no assurance that we will operate profitably or will generate positive cash flow in the future. If we cannot generate positive cash flow in the future, or raise sufficient financing to continue our normal operations, then we may be forced to scale down or even close our operations. In particular, additional capital may be required in the event that: · Drilling and completion costs for further wells increase beyond our expectations; or · We encounter greater costs associated with general and administrative expenses or offering costs. 5 The occurrence of any of the aforementioned events could adversely affect our ability to meet our business plan. We will depend almost exclusively on outside capital to pay for the continued exploration and development of our properties. Such outside capital may include the sale of additional stock and/or commercial borrowing. Capital may not continue to be available if necessary to meet these continuing exploration and development costs or, if capital is available, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. The issuance of additional equity securities by us would result in a significant dilution in the equity interests of our current stockholders. Obtaining commercial loans, assuming those loans would be available, will increase our liabilities and future cash commitments. If we are unable to obtain financing in the amounts and on terms deemed acceptable to us, we may be unable to continue our business and as a result may be required to scale back or cease operations for our business, the result of which would be that our stockholders would lose some or all of their investment. A decline in the price of our common stock could affect our ability to raise further working capital and adversely impact our operations. A prolonged decline in the price of our common stock could result in a reduction in the liquidity of our common stock and a reduction in our ability to raise capital. Because our operations have been primarily financed through the sale of equity securities, a decline in the price of our common stock could be especially detrimental to our liquidity and our continued operations. Any reduction in our ability to raise equity capital in the future would force us to reallocate funds from other planned uses and would have a significant negative effect on our business plans and operations, including our ability to develop new projects and continue our current operations. If our stock price declines, we may not be able to raise additional capital or generate funds from operations sufficient to meet our obligations. If we are not successful in continuing to grow our business, then we may have to scale back or even cease our ongoing business operations. Our success is significantly dependent on a successful acquisition, drilling, completion and production program. We may be unable to locate recoverable reserves or operate on a profitable basis. If our business plan is not successful, and we are not able to operate profitably, investors may lose some or all of their investment in us. Trading of our stock may be restricted by the SEC's "Penny Stock" regulations which may limit a stockholder's ability to buy and sell our stock. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations that generally define "penny stock" to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers or "accredited investors." The term "accredited investor" refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with his or her spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer's confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's writte n agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of, our common stock. 6 NASD sales practice requirements may also limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. In addition to the “penny stock” rules described above, the NASD has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, the NASD believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The NASD requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares. Trading in our common shares on the OTC Bulletin Board has been volatile, making it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares or liquidate their investments with predictability. Our common shares are currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. The trading price of our common shares has been subject to wide fluctuations. Trading prices of our common shares may fluctuate in response to a number of factors, many of which will be beyond our control. The stock market has generally experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies with no current business operation. There can be no assurance that trading prices and price earnings ratios previously experienced by our common shares will be matched or maintained. These broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs for us and a diversion of management's attention and resources. Our securities are considered highly speculative. Our securities must be considered highly speculative, generally because of the nature of our business and the early stage of our exploration and development operations. We are engaged in the business of exploring and, if warranted, developing commercial reserves of oil and gas. Our properties are in the exploration stage only and are without known reserves of oil and gas. Accordingly, we have neither generated any material revenues nor realized a profit from our operations to date and there is little likelihood that we will generate any material revenues or realize any profits in the short term. Any profitability in the future from our business will be dependent upon locating and developing economic reserves of oil and gas, which itself is subject to numerous risk factors as set forth herein. Since we have not generated any material reve nues, we expect that we will need to raise additional monies through the sale of our equity securities or debt in order to continue our business operations. As substantially all of our properties are in the exploration stage, there can be no assurance that we will establish commercial discoveries on our properties. Exploration for economic reserves of oil and gas is subject to a number of risk factors. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing oil and/or gas wells. Our properties are in the exploration stage only and are without proven reserves of oil and gas. We may not establish commercial discoveries on any of our properties. The potential profitability of oil and gas ventures depends upon factors beyond our control. The potential profitability of oil and gas properties is dependent upon many factors beyond our control. For instance, world prices and markets for oil and gas are unpredictable, highly volatile, potentially subject to governmental fixing, pegging, controls, or any combination of these and other factors, and respond to changes in domestic, international, political, social, and economic environments. Additionally, due to worldwide economic uncertainty, the availability and cost of funds for production and other expenses have become increasingly difficult, if not impossible, to project. These changes and events will likely materially affect our financial performance. 7 Adverse weather conditions can also hinder drilling operations. A productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered that impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well. In addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is impregnated with water or other deleterious substances. The marketability of oil and gas that may be acquired or discovered will be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the proximity and capacity of oil and gas pipelines and processing equipment, market fluctuations of prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, allowable production and environmental protection. These factors cannot be accurately predicted and the combination of these factors may result in us not receiving an adequate return on invested ca pital. Competition in the oil and gas industry is highly competitive and there is no assurance that we will be successful in acquiring the leases. The oil and gas industry is intensely competitive. We compete with numerous individuals and companies, including many major oil and gas companies that have substantially greater technical, financial and operational resources and staffs. Accordingly, there is a high degree of competition for desirable oil and gas leases, suitable properties for drilling operations, and necessary drilling equipment, as well as for access to funds. We cannot predict if the necessary funds can be raised or that any projected work will be completed. Our budget anticipates our acquisition of additional acreage. This acreage may not become available or if it is available for leasing, we may not be successful in acquiring the leases. There are other competitors that have operations in areas of potential interest to us and the presence of these competitors could adversely affect our ability to acquire additional leases. The marketability of natural resources will be affected by numerous factors beyond our control, which may result in us not receiving an adequate return on invested capital to be profitable or viable. The marketability of natural resources that may be acquired or discovered by us will be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include market fluctuations in oil and gas pricing and demand, the proximity and capacity of natural resource markets and processing equipment, land tenure, land use and governmental regulations including regulations concerning the importing and exporting of oil and gas and environmental protection regulations. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination of these factors may result in us not receiving an adequate return on invested capital to be profitable or viable. Oil and gas operations are subject to comprehensive regulation, which may cause substantial delays or require capital outlays in excess of those anticipated, causing an adverse effect on us. Oil and gas operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including laws regulating removal of natural resources from the ground and the discharge of materials into the environment. Oil and gas operations are also subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations which seek to maintain health and safety standards by regulating the design and use of drilling methods and equipment. Various permits from government bodies are required for drilling operations to be conducted; no assurance can be given that such permits will be received. Environmental standards imposed by federal, provincial, or local authorities may be changed and any such changes may have material adverse effects on our activities. Moreover, compliance with such laws may cause substantial delays or require cap ital outlays in excess of those anticipated, thus causing an adverse effect on us. Additionally, we may be subject to liability for pollution or other environmental damages that we may elect not to insure against due to prohibitive premium costs and other reasons. To date we have not been required to spend any material amount on compliance with environmental regulations. However, we may be required to do so in future and this may affect our ability to expand or maintain our operations. Exploration and production activities are subject to certain environmental regulations, which may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of our operations. In general, our exploration and production activities are subject to certain federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. Such laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material effect on our operations or financial condition to date. Specifically, we are subject to legislation regarding emissions into the environment, water discharges and storage and disposition of hazardous wastes. In addition, legislation has been enacted which requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities. However, such laws and regulations are frequently changed and we are unable to predict the ultima te cost of compliance. Generally, environmental requirements do not appear to affect us any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than other companies in the industry. We believe that our operations comply, in all material respects, with all applicable environmental regulations. We are not fully insured against all possible environmental risks. 8 Exploratory drilling involves many risks and we may become liable for pollution or other liabilities, which may have an adverse effect on our financial position. Drilling operations generally involve a high degree of risk. Hazards such as unusual or unexpected geological formations, power outages, labor disruptions, blow-outs, sour gas leakage, fire, inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labor, and other risks are involved. We may become subject to liability for pollution or hazards against which we cannot adequately insure or for which we may elect not to insure. Incurring any such liability may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operations. Any change to government regulation/administrative practices may have a negative impact on our ability to operate and our profitability. The laws, regulations, policies or current administrative practices of any government body, organization or regulatory agency in the United States or any other jurisdiction, may be changed, applied or interpreted in a manner that will fundamentally alter the ability of our company to carry on our business. The actions, policies or regulations, or changes thereto, of any government body, regulatory agency, or special interest groups, may have a detrimental effect on us. Any or all of these situations may have a negative impact on our ability to operate and/or our profitably. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. On December 15, 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, or CO2, methane, and other greenhouse gases, or GHGs, present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climate changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the Federal Clean Air Act. The EPA has adopted two sets of regulations under the existing Clean Air Act that would require a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and could trigger permit review for GHG emissions from certain stationary sources. In addition, in April 2010, the EPA proposed to expand its existing GHG reporting rule to include onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage, and distribution facilities. If the proposed rule is finalized as proposed, reporting of GHG emissions from such facilities would be required on an annual basis, with reporting beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. In addition, both houses of Congress have actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. The adoptions of any legislation or regulations that requires reporting of GHGs or otherwise limits emissions of GHGs from our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to monitor and report on GHG emissio ns or reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations, and such requirement also could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing is a process used by oil and natural gas exploration and production operators in the completion or re-working of certain oil and natural gas wells, whereby water, sand and chemicals are injected under pressure into subsurface formations to stimulate natural gas and, to a lesser extent, oil production. This process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas agencies and has not been subject to Federal regulation. However, due to concerns that hydraulic fracturing may adversely affect drinking water supplies, the EPA has commenced a study of the potential adverse effects that hydraulic fracturing may have on water quality and public health, and a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives has commenced its own investigation into hydraulic fracturing practices. Additionally, legislation has been introduced in Congress to amend the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act to subject hydraulic fracturing processes to regulation under that Act and to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. If enacted, such a provision could require hydraulic fracturing activities to meet permitting and financial assurance requirements, adhere to certain construction specifications, fulfill monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping requirement, and meet plugging and abandonment requirements. In unrelated oil spill legislation being considered by the U.S. Senate in the aftermath of the April 2010 Macondo well release in the Gulf of Mexico, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid has added a requirement that natural gas drillers disclose the chemicals that are pumped into the ground as part of the hydraulic fracturing process. Disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process could make it easier for third parties opposing hydraulic fracturing to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. Adoption of legislation or of any implementing regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on our exploration and production activities, which could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing, resulting in reduced amounts of oil and natural gas being produced, as well as increase our costs of compliance and doing business. Our Bylaws contain provisions indemnifying our officers and directors against all costs, charges and expenses incurred by them. Our Bylaws contain provisions with respect to the indemnification of our officers and directors against all costs, charges and expenses, including an amount paid to settle an action or satisfy a judgment, (i) actually and reasonably incurred and (ii) in a civil, criminal or administrative action or proceeding to which he is made a party by reason of his being or having been one of our directors or officers. Investors' interests in us will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share if we issue additional shares or raise funds through the sale of equity securities. In the event that we are required to issue any additional shares or enter into private placements to raise financing through the sale of equity securities, investors' interests in us will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share depending on the price at which such securities are sold. If we issue any such additional shares, such issuances also will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all other stockholders. Further, any such issuance may result in a change in our management and directors. We have never paid cash dividends and do not intend to do so. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently plan to retain any earnings to finance the growth of our business rather than pay cash dividends. Payments of any cash dividends in the future will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, and capital requirements, as well as other factors deemed relevant by pour board of directors. Our Bylaws do not contain anti-takeover provisions, which could result in a change of our management and directors if there is a take-over of us. We do not currently have a stockholder rights plan or any anti-takeover provisions in our Bylaws. Without any anti-takeover provisions, there is no deterrent for a take-over of us, which may result in a change in our management and directors. 9 