Item 1A. Risk Factors We have a history of net losses, and we may not be able to achieve profitability even if we are able to generate significant revenues. We have incurred net losses of $29.5 million, $13.6 million and $11.4 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and, as of June 30, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $77.0 million. We have financed our operations primarily through private placements of equity securities and our IPO in November 2007. We have devoted substantially all of our resources to research and development of our products and the commercialization of RADIESSE® and our other products. We expect to continue operating at a net loss at least during fiscal year 2009 and may continue do so in the future. If we are unable to grow revenue from existing products and launch new products while incurring current levels of operating expenses, the timing of, or our ability to achieve, profitability would be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability even if we are able to generate significant revenues. Our failure to achieve and sustain profitability would negatively impact the market price of our common stock and require us to seek additional funding, if such funding is then available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all. We have a limited operating history, and we expect our financial condition and operating results to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis in potentially unpredictable ways. We were incorporated in 1999 and commenced operations in 2000. From 2001 to 2003, we received certain U.S. and international regulatory approvals for, and engaged in commercial sales of, RADIESSE® and COAPTITE®. We obtained FDA pre-market approval, or PMA, for our key commercial application of RADIESSE®, the correction of moderate to severe facial wrinkles and folds, in December 2006. Accordingly, we have a limited history of operations upon which you can evaluate our business. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors relating to our business that may contribute to quarterly and annual fluctuations include the following factors: • the rate of market adoption of RADIESSE® and other future products that we may offer; • the success of products competitive with RADIESSE® that are now available or that may become commercially available in the future; • the timing of regulatory clearances or approvals and success of the introduction of new products; • the effectiveness of promotional and marketing campaigns by us or our competitors; • seasonal variations in demand; • the overall strength of the minimally-invasive aesthetics market, generally, and the strength of the dermal filler market, specifically; • changes in general economic conditions and the related impact on discretionary spending on elective procedures; and • the performance of our independent distributors, partners and suppliers. The recent U.S. economic slowdown has led to lower consumer spending that may be responsible for a decline in demand for certain cosmetic procedures and, consequently, the decline in some aesthetic product makers’ results of operations, including our own. We may be unable to reduce our expenditures in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenues. Accordingly, a significant shortfall in demand for our products could have an immediate and material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to the various factors mentioned above, and others, the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods, or guidance regarding expectations of future results, should not be relied upon as an indication of our future operating performance. 27 Table of Contents If the recent slowdown in demand for medical aesthetic procedures in general, or RADIESSE® procedures in particular, lasts longer than anticipated, our future operating performance will be adversely impacted. The success of our business depends on consumer demand for medical aesthetic procedures, which is highly sensitive to macroeconomic conditions. The recent economic slowdown, particularly in the U.S. market which represents more than 80% of our revenue, has led to lower consumer discretionary spending and a decline in dermal filler procedures in recent quarters. The turmoil in financial markets, declining consumer confidence, negative wealth effects of declines in housing values and the stock market, and other factors could further weaken medical aesthetics procedure demand. The macroeconomic weakness and current financial market uncertainty may last longer than we anticipate, or have a greater adverse effect on our revenues and operating results than we anticipate. While we believe that the recent slowdown in demand for RADIESSE® is the result of lower demand for cosmetic procedures generally, the decline could also reflect a weakening of our competitive position or physician or patient preference for other products. If the declining revenue growth is due to competitive factors rather than overall demand for cosmetic procedures, then we may not see the increase in revenue that we would otherwise expect with a recovery in the U.S. economy and consumer demand for aesthetic procedures. If RADIESSE® and our other products fail to compete effectively and gain greater market adoption, our business will suffer. RADIESSE® currently is our primary product, and we expect it to remain so for the next several years. RADIESSE® competes against products that are more established and accepted within our target markets. Our largest direct competitors in the key U.S. market include Allergan and Medicis, and there are many other companies that compete directly or indirectly with us or that are likely to compete with us in the near future, both in the United States and internationally. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial resources, reputation and experience in the aesthetics market than we do, as well as broader aesthetic product offerings. Competing effectively will require us to distinguish our company and RADIESSE® from our competitors and their products, which will be dependent on factors such as: • the safety, effectiveness and ease of use of RADIESSE® and duration of cosmetic benefit; • patient and physician satisfaction with RADIESSE® compared to other injectable aesthetic products and alternative treatments; • the cost of RADIESSE® to our physician customers relative to alternative products and the price that those physicians, in turn, charge for the corresponding procedure; • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; • our ability to obtain additional regulatory approvals and promote RADIESSE®; • our ability to co-promote our filler along with complementary products that we may seek to introduce; • our ability to establish a strong and widely-recognized reputation for RADIESSE® and our company as a whole; • our ability to offer a broader portfolio of aesthetic products; • the results and publication in prominent journals of clinical studies that may be conducted by us or our competitors comparing RADIESSE® with competing products; • intellectual property protection; and • the overall size and rate of growth of the dermal filler market. Our other current products are, and contemplated future products, including RADIESSE® with Lidocaine, Polidocanol, RELAXED EXPRESSIONS™ and BIOGLUE AESTHETIC™, will be, subject to similar 28 Table of Contents competitive risks as RADIESSE®. If we are unable to effectively distinguish RADIESSE®, or any of our other current or future products, from those of our competitors, we are unlikely to gain significant market share and our prospects for growth would be harmed. Moreover, if we are unable to offer a broader set of aesthetic products, we will likely be unable to gain significant additional share of the aesthetics market. Our largest competitors enjoy sales and marketing advantages that could make it difficult for us to compete effectively and which could result in our future performance not meeting our expectations. Even if we are able to demonstrate to a potential user that our product is superior to alternatives offered by competitors, we may not be able to convert the potential user to our product. Our largest competitors enjoy sales and marketing advantages that could influence patients and physicians to choose their products over ours, regardless of relative safety and effectiveness of the products. For example, our largest competitors have implemented expensive national direct-to-consumer marketing campaigns to promote their dermal filler products. These campaigns may lead consumers to develop a strong brand preference for an alternate product even before their initial visit with a physician. Competitors have also influenced physician practice through aggressive promotional campaigns that offer significant discounts to physicians who choose their products over competing products. Some competitors also have the ability to influence a physician’s practice by co-promoting, or bundling, the sale of two different but related products, such as a dermal filler and a botulinum toxin. Bundling of complementary products may permit these companies to enjoy efficiencies with respect to their marketing efforts, may permit unique discounting and cross-selling opportunities, and reinforce company and brand loyalty. We believe that the products we have under development, including Polidocanol, RELAXED EXPRESSIONS™ and BIOGLUE AESTHETIC™ will significantly enhance our competitive position. However, even if we are able to commercialize and co-promote new products, we may be unable to generate expected sales and our financial performance may suffer due to various other competitive factors, including pricing, patient satisfaction and customer loyalty to the products of our competitors. List price reductions, volume discounting and bundling discounts, along with our own volume discount promotions, have in the past contributed to, and may in the future contribute to, a decline in RADIESSE® selling prices. Competition in the aesthetics market is characterized by frequent product introductions, and products not yet available could result in significant additional competition. Our current and future competitors will introduce new products or new formulations of existing products that will result in near-term and long-term increased competition. While there are a number of competing dermal fillers in the United States, there are many others available internationally. Some of the dermal fillers available domestically and internationally claim to have benefits that may be perceived as equivalent to or better than other leading dermal fillers, including RADIESSE®, based upon such factors as durability, cost, comfort, scope of approved marketing claims or ease of treatment. If dermal fillers are perceived to offer benefits that are equivalent to or better than RADIESSE®, demand for, and revenue derived from, RADIESSE® could be harmed. The frequent introduction of dermal fillers may create market confusion that may make it more difficult to differentiate the benefits of RADIESSE® over competing products. In addition, the entry of multiple products and new competitors may lead some of our competitors to adopt pricing strategies that could adversely impact pricing in the filler marketplace generally. The failure of RADIESSE® to meet physicians’ or patients’ expectations could reduce demand for RADIESSE® and negatively impact our financial performance. Most procedures performed using RADIESSE® are elective procedures, the cost of which must be borne by the patient and are not reimbursable through government or private health insurance. The decision to undergo a RADIESSE® procedure is thus driven by patient demand for an aesthetics procedure, and patients often play a central role in the selection of the dermal filler to be used. 29 Table of Contents Our future success depends upon patients having a positive experience with RADIESSE®. We believe that patients who have a positive experience with RADIESSE® may be more likely to return for additional treatments and refer new patients, which we believe would increase physician demand for RADIESSE®. However, results obtained from a RADIESSE® procedure will vary depending on the experience and technique of the treating physician, the volume of dermal filler injected, the patient’s expectations of the results that will be achieved, and the duration of the results. Patients may be dissatisfied with their RADIESSE® treatment experience if immediate or long-term results do not match their expectations, if they find the procedure too painful, or if they find that the temporary side-effects of treatment such as swelling and bruising outweigh the benefit received. Additionally, we believe that patient demand for RADIESSE® is, in many cases, influenced by price. Treatment with a single syringe of RADIESSE® may cost a patient more than treatment with a single syringe of many other dermal fillers. If a RADIESSE® treatment produces results that do not meet physicians’ and patients’ expectations, or if physicians and patients generally believe it is too expensive for the results obtained, our reputation, repeat sales, word of mouth referral opportunities and future sales could suffer. Negative perception regarding RADIESSE®, even if unfounded, may inhibit adoption. Gaining physician confidence and converting new accounts is important to our ability to significantly enhance our competitive position and our opportunity for significant growth in our business. There are many dermal filler products and alternate treatments from which to choose for facial aesthetic applications. Practitioners must believe that RADIESSE® presents an attractive alternative before they will recommend it to their patients. The rate of physician adoption of RADIESSE® may be adversely affected by negative perception of the product, even if such perception is unfounded. Practitioners may be influenced by the negative comments of another practitioner, which may lead them to not adopt the product. Moreover, because we cannot control how practitioners use RADIESSE®, there is a risk that practitioners or patients could develop negative perceptions regarding RADIESSE® on the basis of treatments for which RADIESSE® is not suitable and has not received regulatory approval. For instance, there have been published reports of lumpiness associated with the use of RADIESSE® injected into the lips, a type of treatment for which RADIESSE® has not been approved. Competitors have in the past promoted their dermal filler products by criticizing RADIESSE®, and we expect that means of competition to continue into the future. If practitioners believe that RADIESSE® is unsafe, ineffective, unsatisfactory, too expensive, difficult to use or inappropriate for certain applications, they may not adopt it, which could result in our future sales not meeting our expectations. Study results finding RADIESSE® preferable to competing products may not lead to an increase in market share. While we have recently conducted and published clinical studies that we believe demonstrate RADIESSE®’s advantages over other leading dermal fillers, the publication and promotion of these study results may not lead to increased market share. Physicians and patients may not be persuaded by our clinical study data to demand RADIESSE® over our competitors’ products. A number of factors, including price, marketing practices and name recognition, past experience, perception and other factors may lead potential customers to choose our competitors’ products, instead. Additionally, a competitor may perform its own study that contradicts the results of our previously published studies. A substantial part of our operating expenses are related to sales, marketing and clinical education. If we are not as successful or effective as our competitors in these activities, our revenue may be lower than expected. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenues depends, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining experienced and productive direct sales personnel. If our sales representatives take longer than expected to reach anticipated productivity, if they fail to compete effectively for the time and attention of physicians and office representatives, or if they fail to meet expectations, we may not achieve our revenue goals. 30 Table of Contents Our marketing organizations in the United States and Europe compete with much larger, more established and better funded marketing activities by larger competitors. We believe that clinical confidence in the use of RADIESSE® is important in physician adoption of RADIESSE®, and we invest substantial resources in clinical education activities including a team of more than 30 in-office clinical trainers. Our efforts to train physicians may not be adequate or successful in increasing physician confidence and comfort in using RADIESSE® frequently in their practice. Even if physician confidence in RADIESSE® increases, that may not result in more orders since the decision to choose a product is dependent upon many factors beyond just clinical comfort and confidence. Our failure to retain or effectively utilize our sales representatives, marketing and clinical education personnel, or our failure to compete effectively in physician, patient and office staff awareness of RADIESSE® could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. We may incur significant additional sales and marketing expenses if and when we launch new products. We believe that our ability to increase revenue on current products and successfully launch new products without incurring significant additional sales and marketing expenses is a key to our transition to profitability. While we believe that our existing sales and marketing infrastructure will allow us to increase revenue on current products and successfully launch new products, we may incur significant additional costs for sales and marketing to accomplish these goals. We base our belief regarding the adequacy of our existing sales and marketing organization on a number of assumptions, which may or may not prove to be correct. For example, we believe that, if and when approved, our Polidocanol product will be widely adopted because awareness of Polidocanol is already high in vein centers and dermatologists are performing a significant number of sclerotherapy procedures. We believe that our existing sales and marketing organization, which is accustomed to selling relatively inexpensive disposable products like RADIESSE®, will be able to effectively market and sell RELAXED EXPRESSIONS™, a more expensive capital equipment product, if and when it is approved. However, we may be incorrect about these and other assumptions we have made about the market for our new product candidates. If our assumptions are incorrect, then we may decide that our existing sales and marketing infrastructure is inadequate and incur significant additional sales and marketing expenses that would adversely affect our results of operations, and the timing of, or our ability to achieve, profitability. To successfully market and sell RADIESSE® internationally, we must address additional risks associated with operations in foreign countries. International sales accounted for 19% and 17% of our total revenue for fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. We believe that a significant portion of our business will continue to come from international sales through increased penetration in countries where we currently sell RADIESSE®, combined with expansion into new international markets. In several countries in Europe, we have a direct sales organization. We principally rely on third party distributors to sell our products outside of Europe. Our success internationally is subject to a number of risks, including: • difficulties in penetrating markets in which our competitors’ products are more established; • intense competition, including with products that are not available in the United States that may claim to offer benefits similar to or better than RADIESSE®, and with products that may be sold at substantially lower prices than RADIESSE®; • maintaining existing and obtaining new foreign certification and regulatory clearances and approvals; • difficulties in managing international operations; • difficulties identifying effective distributors and managing distributor relationships; 31 Table of Contents • Export restrictions, trade regulations and foreign tax laws; • reduced or no protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates; and • political and economic instability. Our other current products are, and contemplated future products will be, subject to similar international risks as RADIESSE®. If we are unable to effectively manage the risks associated with international operations, we may be unable to effectively sell RADIESSE® outside of the United States, causing our revenue to be lower than expected and harming our results of operations. We depend on single manufacturer relationships for supply of our CaHA particles. Any disruption of these relationships could affect our ability to supply product and could harm our business. We currently depend on a single contract manufacturer, Tulsa Dental Specialties, for the small CaHA particles used in RADIESSE® and a single contract manufacturer, CAM Implants, for the larger CaHA particles used in COAPTITE®, our CaHA bulking agent for the treatment of female stress urinary incontinence. Our agreement with Tulsa Dental Specialties runs through May 2010 and then renews for an additional two-year term, unless terminated pursuant to its terms. Our agreement with CAM Implants runs through November 2009 and renews each year for a further year unless terminated pursuant to its terms. Neither agreement is terminable at will by either party. Our reliance on these manufacturers subjects us to several unpredictable risks, the occurrence of any of which could lead to a disruption of our operations, including: • delays in production of CaHA particles that meet our specifications or failure to meet rigorous regulatory requirements; • fluctuation in production quantity or quality due to changes in demand from us or their other customers; • the inability to meet our production needs, if demand for RADIESSE® or COAPTITE® increases significantly; • our CaHA manufacturers’ failure to comply with the terms of the contracts, or the termination thereof pursuant to the terms of the contracts; • damage to, or other interruption of, operations at a particular facility; and • increases to the price that we pay for the production of CaHA. Efforts that we may undertake to negotiate terms of supply in the future or to reduce our reliance on these manufacturers could harm our relationships with them. Obtaining alternate manufacturers would be an expensive and lengthy process and would require additional regulatory approvals, which may not be obtained. We could experience production delays related to the evaluation and testing of CaHA particles from alternate manufacturers and obtaining corresponding regulatory qualifications. Any interruption in the supply of CaHA or our inability to obtain CaHA from alternate sources at acceptable prices, in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business. We depend on Boston Scientific to market and sell COAPTITE®, and if Boston Scientific is not successful or reduces its efforts to sell COAPTITE®, our revenues will be harmed. We currently depend on Boston Scientific to sell COAPTITE®, the sales of which constituted less than 10% of our revenues for fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007. Boston Scientific is a very large corporation. While we believe our relationship with Boston Scientific is in good standing, COAPTITE® represents an immaterial amount of 32 Table of Contents Boston Scientific’s overall revenue and Boston Scientific may in the future determine that resources currently directed to selling COAPTITE® should be redirected to higher priority projects or they may lack motivation to grow or maintain sales of COAPTITE®. If this were to occur, our expectations of future COAPTITE® revenues would be harmed. We do not expect our recent acquisition of an RF-nerve lesion product to result in significant revenue unless we obtain an additional FDA clearance and are able to demonstrate to physicians and patients that the product is an attractive alternative to existing treatments. In April 2008, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Advanced Cosmetic Intervention, or ACI and its licensor JNJ Technologies. The RELAXED EXPRESSIONS™ device is currently cleared via a 510(k) by FDA to create RF heat lesions in nerve tissue. While we believe this technology will ultimately offer patients an attractive alternative therapy to Botox for the treatment of frown lines, the product cannot be marketed for uses beyond its current 510(k) indication without specific additional 510(k) clearance. We expect to conduct clinical studies to support a FDA application and other foreign applications for clearance to begin marketing this product for the treatment of frown lines in 2009. However, these clinical studies will be expensive and time consuming and may not yield results that would lead the FDA to approve a 510(k) application for the treatment of frown lines. If we do not receive this additional FDA clearance, or if the clearance is delayed or limited in scope, our marketing efforts will be significantly limited, and expectation of future revenue from this product will be harmed. Additionally, while we believe that there are compelling synergies between this product and our RADIESSE® dermal filler, we cannot predict how successful we will be in marketing this new product to our target customer base. Historically, we have sold RADIESSE®, a relatively inexpensive disposable device, and therefore cannot judge how successful we will be in selling the RELAXED EXPRESSIONS™ device, a relatively expensive capital equipment product. Factors such as price of the product and of the treatment, clinical trial results and journal publications, regulatory clearances, early adopter experience, the effectiveness of our sales force and our marketing efforts, physician and patient loyalty to alternative products, and competitive response will all impact our ability to successfully commercialize this product. While we anticipate that this product could have a significant revenue impact on our business once an FDA clearance for the treatment of frown lines is obtained, we may never achieve a significant positive revenue impact from this product. If we are unable to commercialize Polidocanol, which is an investigational sclerotherapy drug that has recently completed its Phase III clinical trial, our expectation of future growth would be harmed. An important part of our strategy includes the successful introduction to the U.S. market of Polidocanol, an injectable sclerosing drug for the treatment of varicose veins. We have acquired the exclusive U.S. distribution rights to Polidocanol from its German manufacturer, Kreussler. Although Polidocanol has been used internationally for decades, it is not currently approved for sale in the United States. We cannot sell Polidocanol in the United States before a new drug application, or NDA, is approved by the FDA. The development and regulatory approval of a new drug is subject to a number of risks and is never certain. In order to support the NDA submission, the manufacturer of Polidocanol conducted a Phase III clinical trial for the use of Polidocanol in treating spider and reticular veins. The trial was conducted based on a design resulting from Kreussler’s communication with the FDA regarding a special protocol assessment, or SPA. Several risks still remain regarding FDA’s review of the clinical study including: • Kreussler has limited experience conducting clinical trials pursuant to FDA requirements and obtaining FDA approvals; • Kreussler, or the contract clinical research organization managing the study, may have failed to follow proper protocols or may have failed to fully and properly execute the clinical study. 33 Table of Contents • the FDA may determine in its clinical trial inspections that the trial was not adequately performed or may raise other questions from its clinical review of the trial data; • the FDA may find that the clinical data does not demonstrate to its satisfaction the safety and efficacy of the product. If the FDA requires further clinical trials prior to approval, we may be subject to a number of risks, including: • any future trial would be designed and conducted by Kreussler, so decisions that could affect the success of the trial would be outside of our control; • any future trial may fail to meet its primary or secondary endpoints for effectiveness or may otherwise not meet the rigorous statistical criteria established with the FDA; or • undesirable side effects or safety issues might arise that might delay or adversely effect future approval In addition to the clinical data review, Kruessler must submit the required manufacturing documentation to complete the NDA filing. While we expect Kruessler’s manufacturing documentation submission to be complete by December 2008, activities that could affect its timing and success are outside of our control. We are anticipating FDA approval in calendar year 2009. Several risks still remain related to the submission, review and approval by the FDA of the manufacturing of Polidocanol including: • Delays may occur in completing validations and submitting manufacturing documentation; or • The FDA may require further tests or validation of the manufacturing facilities or processes; or • The manufacturing equipment, facilities or processes may need to be modified or revalidated and documentation resubmitted to gain approval by the FDA. A delay in FDA approval would delay the U.S. introduction of the product and could harm our expected future operations. FDA may require as a condition of approval further post market clinical studies, patient registries or other safety and efficacy monitoring. Such requirements may impose significant financial and resource requirements, may adversely impact the sales of Polidocanol, or may result in safety or efficacy data which create further FDA review and uncertainty. Sales of Polidocanol, if approved by FDA, may be adversely impacted by multiple competitive products including pharmacy compounded materials available at low cost to physicians. Even if Polidocanol receives FDA approval, our success in marketing and selling the product will be subject to a number of further risks. Despite the success of Polidocanol internationally, and its safety and efficacy profile, physicians in the United States may not choose Polidocanol over other sclerotherapy products currently available in the United States, or over the use of generic compounded Polidocanol, for a number of reasons, including price sensitivity or satisfaction with the existing products. If we are not able to achieve significant sales of Polidocanol, our expected future operating performance would be adversely affected. We are developing BIOGLUE AESTHETIC™ for aesthetics applications, and we cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in our goal of commercializing the product candidate. We have acquired exclusive U.S., Canadian and European distribution rights for aesthetics applications of BIOGLUE AESTHETIC™, a Class III medical device, from CryoLife. Although the FDA cleared BIOGLUE® in 2001 as an adjunct to sutures and staples for use in open surgical repair of large vessels, these clearances may not be used to promote aesthetic applications. We intend to seek FDA clearance for the use of BIOGLUE AESTHETIC™ for aesthetic applications, and hope to obtain such clearance by 2011, but we are at an early 34 Table of Contents stage in our development efforts. We have completed a 30-patient feasibility study to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of BIOGLUE AESTHETIC™ as a method for tissue fixation in patients undergoing browplasty. We are in the process of designing a pivotal clinical study to support FDA approval. Even though we believe the results of our feasibility study generated encouraging data, a positive pivotal study may not produce safety or effectiveness data that would be adequate to support FDA approval. Even if we are able to obtain FDA clearance for tissue fixation in browplasty or any other application for which we might seek approval, the commercialization effort may be difficult. The use of a surgical adhesive in aesthetics applications will be novel, and would require physicians to migrate from existing and well-accepted surgical methods. If we are not successful at any stage of our efforts, clinical, regulatory or commercial, BIOGLUE AESTHETIC™ will not develop into a meaningful component of our business. We are developing RADIESSE® with Lidocaine and other future forms of RADIESSE® products, and we cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in our goal of commercializing the product candidate or candidates. We are currently designing clinical trials for our RADIESSE® with Lidocaine product to support its FDA approval. We believe we may be able to begin selling this product in 2009, but the timing and receipt of FDA approval for RADIESSE® with Lidocaine is subject to risks associated with any medical device new product development initiative. Uncertainties in product development may include manufacturing, regulatory, or clinical trial risks, including the potential for adverse safety events or negative or ambiguous results. Furthermore, even if we receive FDA approval of a form of RADIESSE® with Lidocaine, there is no assurance that this product will prove commercially successful. Our other future forms of RADIESSE® or derivative products also involve significant product development risks and uncertainties and may not be successfully developed or commercially successful. We have increased the size of our company significantly, and difficulties managing our growth could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have experienced rapid growth in a relatively short period of time and may experience additional growth in the future, as we continue to support RADIESSE® and bring other products to market. Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our management team, finance department, information systems and other resources. To manage growth effectively, we must: • continue to enhance our operational, financial and other systems and resources; • maintain and improve our internal controls and procedures; and • expand, train and manage our employee base. We may not be able to effectively manage this expansion in any one or more of these areas, and any failure to do so could significantly harm our business. In addition, our management, personnel and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support our growth. It may be difficult for us to adequately predict the expenditures we will need to make in the future. If we do not make the necessary expenditures to accommodate our future growth, we may not be successful in executing our growth strategy, and our results of operations would suffer. Alternatively, necessary expenditures to continue our growth could exceed our current expectations, which would affect our ability to achieve and sustain profitability. If we are unable to hire and retain key employees, our ability to manage and expand our business will be harmed. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our officers and other key employees, including Steve Basta, our Chief Executive Officer, Derek Bertocci, our Chief Financial Officer, Dennis Condon, our President and Chief Business Officer, and Adam Gridley, Senior Vice President, Corporate Development, 35 Table of Contents along with our ability to retain these employees and to hire new employees to fill significant needs as we grow our business. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management, sales, finance and technology personnel in the future due to intense competition for hiring experienced personnel. Additionally, any of our officers and other employees may terminate their employment at any time. The loss of any of our senior management team members could weaken our management expertise and harm our business. Government regulations restricting the export of goods expose us to potential sanctions and penalties. United States laws prohibit United States companies and foreign companies that sell U.S. origin items from engaging in commercial transactions with specified countries, individuals and organizations. We have learned that a distributor of RADIESSE® in the United Arab Emirates shipped our product to physicians in Syria, a prohibited country. We have also learned that our European subsidiary, which manages this distributor, was aware that some shipments might go to Syria, but was not aware that shipments to Syria without a specific export license violated U.S. law. Upon learning of this situation, we informed the distributor to cease all shipments to Syria and filed a voluntary self disclosure of this situation with the U.S. Department of Commerce. Persons who violate U.S. export control laws can be subject to monetary fines and other sanctions, including possible criminal penalties. We do not expect the fines or penalties imposed on us, if any, to be material, but we cannot assure you that the actual amount of the fines or penalties, if any, will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition or reputation. We may acquire additional products or product candidates in the future, and any costs associated with the acquisition or any difficulty integrating operations could reduce our revenues, increase our costs and harm our operating results. We have acquired or in-licensed several of our current products and product candidates. In order to grow our business, we intend to acquire or in-license additional products and product candidates that we believe have significant commercial potential and that complement our existing products and products under development. Any growth through acquisitions or in-licensing will be dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition or in-license product candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. Integrating any newly-acquired product or product candidate could be expensive and time-consuming. Other companies, many of which may have substantially greater resources and reputation, compete with us for the right to acquire and in-license products or product candidates. Any cash acquisition we pursue would diminish the resources available to us for other uses, and any stock acquisition would dilute our stockholders’ ownership. Our future product development efforts also could result in large and immediate write-offs, incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities or amortization of expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We could become involved in product liability suits, which could result in expensive and time consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages and an increase in our insurance rates. Product liability litigation in the medical device industry is common, and from time to time, we may receive complaints or be named in lawsuits claiming that our products failed to provide the desired outcome or were in some manner associated with an adverse outcome for the patient. These claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us. We maintain product liability insurance with liability coverage limits that we believe are adequate and customary for the nature of our business, and we submit these claims to our insurance carrier. However, we may not have sufficient insurance coverage for all future claims, and we may not be able to obtain additional or expanded insurance in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. Any product liability claims brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing continuing coverage, could harm our reputation in the industry and reduce product sales. Product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage would be paid out of cash reserves, harming our financial condition and reducing our operating results. 36 Table of Contents Risks Related to Regulatory Matters If we fail to maintain necessary FDA approvals or if we fail to comply with applicable federal and state regulations, we could be subject to enforcement action and our commercial operations would be harmed. We have obtained FDA PMA approvals and 510(k) clearances for our products for several indications. However, our approvals and clearances could be revoked if safety concerns arise. The FDA and state authorities have broad enforcement powers. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA or state agencies, which may include any of the following actions: • warning letters, adverse publicity, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • repair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of our product; • operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new products, new intended uses or modifications to our existing product; • withdrawing 510(k) clearance or premarket approvals that have already been granted; and • criminal prosecution. Our FDA approvals for RADIESSE® and COAPTITE® contain certain requirements for post-approval studies of the long-term safety and/or efficacy of those products. Clinical studies conducted after approval are subject to the same risks as clinical studies conducted prior to approval; for example, such studies may be delayed or halted if the product is shown not to be effective, if patients experience unacceptable side affects or if patients do not enroll in the studies at the rate we expect. In addition, the FDA may alter the parameters of the post-approval studies, including by requiring different endpoints, inclusion criteria, or study sizes, all of which may affect the cost of conducting such trials. These post-approval studies thus have the potential to reduce our revenues, increase our expenses, and render our approved products not commercially viable. Additionally, administration of our products by healthcare professionals is subject to regulations that vary by state. For example, federal regulations allow our products to be sold to, or on the order of, “licensed practitioners,” as determined on a state-by-state basis. As a result, in some states, non-physicians may legally administer RADIESSE®. However, a state could change its regulations at any time, disallowing sales to particular types of healthcare professionals. If we sell our products to practitioners who are not permitted by state regulation to perform the treatment, we could be subject to enforcement action. If we want to expand our marketing claims, we will need to obtain additional FDA clearances or approvals, which may not be granted. We are developing additional formulations of our CaHA technology. Before a new use of or claim for a product can be marketed in the United States, it must first receive FDA approval. The marketing of a product for an indication or application that has not received approval will be viewed as “off-label promotion” and could subject us to an FDA enforcement action, including the issuance of a warning letter and adverse publicity. In addition, any modifications that we may make to RADIESSE®’s formulation or manufacturing that would significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in its intended use will require a new FDA approval. The FDA may require us to conduct clinical trials to support new indications or formulations, such trials may be time-consuming and expensive, and may produce results that do not result in approval of our FDA application. Delays in obtaining future approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our revenue and potential future profitability. In the event that we do not obtain additional FDA approvals for future indications or uses, our ability to promote our products in the United States and to grow our revenue could be limited. 37 Table of Contents If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, our business would suffer. We and our third-party manufacturers are required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR. The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, control, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our product. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic unannounced inspections. We and our third-party manufacturers have been, and in the future will be, subject to such inspections. Our failure, or the failure of our third-party manufacturers, to take prompt and satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection could result in enforcement actions, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of our manufacturing operations, a recall of our product, civil or criminal penalties or other sanctions, which would cause our sales and business to suffer. We may not be able to obtain or maintain international regulatory qualifications or approvals for our products, which could harm our business. Sales of our products outside the United States are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA clearance or approval, in addition to other risks. Complying with international regulatory requirements can be an expensive and time consuming process, and approval is not certain. The time required to obtain foreign clearances or approvals may exceed the time required for FDA clearance or approval, and requirements for such clearances or approvals may differ significantly from FDA requirements. Foreign regulatory authorities may not clear or approve our product for the same uses cleared or approved by the FDA. Although we have obtained approval to affix the CE Mark to RADIESSE® for use in the European Union, we may not be able to maintain such approval. We may not be able to obtain permission to affix the CE Mark to new products or to modifications of RADIESSE®. In addition, we may fail to obtain any additional regulatory qualifications, clearances or approvals or to comply with additional legal obligations required by the individual member countries of the European Union or other countries in which we seek to market our products. The FDA also regulates the export of drugs and medical devices from the United States. If we are not successful in obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals or complying with United States export regulations, our business will be harmed. Foreign regulatory agencies periodically inspect manufacturing facilities both in the United States and abroad. We may fail to pass inspections of our facilities by applicable regulatory authorities or entities both in the United States and in other countries. Delays in receiving necessary qualifications, clearances or approvals to market our products outside the United States, or the failure to receive those qualifications, approvals, or to comply with other foreign regulatory requirements, could limit or prevent us from marketing our products or enhancements in international markets. Additionally, the imposition of new requirements could significantly affect our business and our product, and we might not be able to adjust to such new requirements. If we fail to comply with applicable foreign regulations, we could face substantial penalties, and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Intellectual property rights provide us with only limited protection against competition. While we attempt to protect our products through patents and other intellectual property rights, there are few barriers to entry that would prevent new entrants or existing competitors from developing products that compete directly with ours. For example, while we believe our CaHA-based dermal filler technology maintains a strong intellectual property position, there are companies employing competing technologies that claim to have a similar clinical effect to ours which are not CaHA-based. There are also potential future competitive products in development incorporating calcium based materials such as CaHA in formulations that may be designed to 38 Table of Contents circumvent our patents. In addition, our patents covering the core technologies used in RADIESSE® and COAPTITE® expire in the United States beginning in 2012, and internationally beginning in 2013, with the last to expire U.S. patent expiring in 2020. Expired patents will not prevent competitors from legally introducing products based on this technology. As a result, we believe that we will have to continually innovate and improve our products and technologies and file new patent applications and obtain new patents relating to such innovations and technologies to maintain intellectual property protection and to compete successfully. Patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us. Any patents we obtain may be challenged, invalidated or legally circumvented by third parties. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by consultants, vendors, former employees or current employees, despite the existence generally of confidentiality agreements, security measures and other contractual restrictions, and any litigation that we initiate to protect our intellectual property may be costly, time consuming for management and may not be successful. Monitoring unauthorized uses and disclosures of our intellectual property is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be effective. In addition, third parties may independently develop similar technologies. Moreover, we do not have patent rights in all foreign countries in which a market may exist, and where we have applied for foreign patent rights, the laws of many foreign countries will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We may be involved in future costly intellectual property litigation, which could impact our future business and financial performance. Our industry has been characterized by frequent intellectual property litigation. For example, we were involved in litigation with one of our competitors, Artes Medical, over rights to intellectual property underlying both of our companies’ lead products, which resulted in the execution of a settlement and license agreement with Artes Medical in 2005. Our competitors or other patent holders may in the future assert that RADIESSE® and the methods we employ are covered by their patents. If our products are found to infringe, we could be prevented from marketing them or have to pay substantial license fees or royalties to a third party. We may also initiate litigation against third parties to protect our own intellectual property. Companies may market products for competing purposes in a direct challenge to our intellectual property position, and we may be required to initiate litigation in order to stop them. The unauthorized use of our intellectual property could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have, cause us to lose sales, or otherwise harm our business. Our intellectual property has not been fully tested in court. If we initiate litigation to protect our rights, we run the risk of having our patents invalidated, which would undermine our competitive position. Litigation related to infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, is unpredictable, can be expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our core business. If we lose this kind of litigation, a court could require us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from using technologies essential to RADIESSE®, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not know whether necessary licenses would be available to us at all or on satisfactory terms, or whether we could redesign RADIESSE® or processes to avoid infringement. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Being a Public Company We expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including: • volume and timing of RADIESSE® sales; • the introduction of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; 39 Table of Contents • disputes or other developments with respect to our intellectual property rights or the intellectual property rights of others; • product liability claims or other litigation; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers and directors; • developments in our industry; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals or applications; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; and • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. These and other factors may make the price of our stock volatile and subject to unexpected fluctuation. If our public guidance or our future operating performance does not meet investor expectations, our stock price could decline. If our actual results do not meet our public guidance, or our guidance or actual results do not meet the expectations of third-party financial analysts, our stock price could decline significantly. Our business typically has a short sales cycle, so that we do not have significant backlog of orders at the start of a quarter, and our ability to sell RADIESSE® successfully is subject to many uncertainties, as discussed in these risk factors. Additionally, our public guidance is based, in part, on assumptions regarding matters outside our control, like macroeconomic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect (as, for example, would be the case if the current economic slowdown persists well into 2009), our guidance could be significantly and adversely affected. In light of these factors, it is difficult for us to estimate with accuracy our future results. Our expectations regarding these results will be subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could make actual results differ materially from those anticipated. Our financial and disclosure controls and procedures are expensive to implement and may not be sufficient to ensure timely and reliable reporting of financial information, which could materially harm our stock price and NASDAQ listing. We are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, including the requirements that we maintain disclosure controls and procedures and adequate internal control over financial reporting. We are also required to comply with marketplace rules and corporate governance standards of NASDAQ. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other SEC and NASDAQ requirements is expensive and requires significant management resources. We recently have begun upgrading our procedures and controls and will need to continue to implement additional procedures and controls as we grow our business and organization and to satisfy these reporting requirements. The effectiveness of our controls and procedures implemented to comply with these requirements may in the future be limited by a variety of factors, including: • faulty human judgment and simple errors, omissions or mistakes; • fraudulent action of an individual or collusion of two or more people; • inappropriate management override of procedures; and • the possibility that any enhancements to controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure timely and accurate financial information. 40 Table of Contents If we are unable to complete the required assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or if we fail to maintain internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely, accurate and reliable periodic financial statements could be impaired, and we could be subject to NASDAQ delisting, SEC investigation and civil or criminal sanctions. Additionally, our ability to obtain additional financing could be impaired. A lack of investor confidence in the reliability and accuracy of our public reporting could cause our stock price to decline. Our directors, officers and principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. Our officers, directors and principal stockholders each holding more than 5% of our common stock collectively control more than a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to control the management and affairs of our company and most matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage a takeover or frustrate any attempt by stockholders to change the directors or management of our company. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and Delaware law, contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover and might make it more difficult for an investor to acquire a substantial block of our common stock to cause changes in our management team or corporate strategy. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • advance notice requirements to stockholders for matters to be brought at stockholder meetings; • a supermajority stockholder vote requirement for amending certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • limitations on stockholder actions by written consent; • provisions permitting the issuance of blank check preferred shares without stockholder consent; and; • the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law that, in general, prohibit any business combination or merger with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. These provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or a change in our management. The applicability of these provisions could adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We have a large number of authorized but unissued shares of stock. Our certificate of incorporation provides for 100,000,000 shares of authorized common stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and relative voting power. There are no current plans to issue any additional shares of common stock, other than increases from time to time in the number of shares that are reserved for issuance under our equity incentive plans. However, we could use the shares of common stock that are available for future issuance in dilutive equity financing transactions, or to 41 Table of Contents oppose a hostile takeover attempt or delay or prevent changes in control or changes in or removal of management, including transactions that are favored by a majority of the stockholders or in which the stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices or benefit in some other manner. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides for 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, all of which are available for future issuance. Although there are currently no plans to do so, our board of directors may, without further stockholder approval, issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such rights, preferences and privileges as our board may determine. These rights, preferences and privileges may include dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights and liquidation rights that may be greater than the rights of our common stock. As a result, the rights of holders of our common stock are subject to, and could be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future, and any return on investment may be limited to the value of our stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 