Item 1A. RISK FACTORS There is Substantial Doubt About the Company’s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern The Company incurred losses from operations over the last four years, including a net loss of $51.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. The Company’s losses over this time period were primarily due to underwriting losses, significant revenue declines and expenses declining less than the amount of revenue declines and goodwill impairments. The loss from operations was the result of prior pricing issues in some states in which the Company has taken significant pricing and underwriting actions to address profitability, losses from states that the Company has exited, such as Florida and Michigan, and goodwill impairment charges as a result of such losses. As a result of declining performance, the Company breached the leverage ratio covenant under the senior secured credit facility as of September 30, 2012; however, the lenders for the facility agreed to waive such event of default. The Company breached the leverage, interest coverage and risk-based capital ratio covenants (“Financial Covenants”) as of December 31, 2012, and the lenders for the facility have agreed to temporarily forbear from exercising their rights and remedies under the facility until the earlier of June 1, 2013, or the occurrence of a further event of default under the facility from the quarterly covenants. If the Company is unable to achieve compliance with the Financial Covenants as of June 1, 2013, or obtain an extension of the lenders’ forbearance or a waiver of any non-compliance, the lenders will be able to declare all amounts outstanding under the facility to be immediately due and payable. Even if the Company is compliant with the Financial Covenants or, if not compliant, obtains additional forbearance or waivers from its lenders, there is still substantial uncertainty that the Company will be able to refinance or extend the maturity of the senior secured facility when it expires in January 2014. If the Company’s lenders declare the amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facility to be immediately due and payable or the Company is unable to refinance or extend the maturity of the senior secured facility when it expires in January 2014, it would have a material adverse effect on our operations and our creditors and stockholders. The Illinois Insurance Code includes a reserve requirement that an insurer maintain an amount of qualifying investments, as defined, at least equal to the lesser of $250.0 million or 100% of its adjusted loss reserves and loss adjustment expenses reserves, as defined. As of December 31, 2011, Affirmative Insurance Company (AIC) was deficient in meeting the qualifying investments requirement by $18.9 million, but submitted a plan to cure such deficiency to the Illinois Department of Insurance by September 30, 2012, which was approved and through various actions AIC was deemed by the Illinois Department of Insurance to be in compliance with the reserve requirement as of September 30, 2012. As of December 31, 2012, AIC was deficient in meeting the qualifying investments requirement by $16.5 million. Management has submitted a plan to cure the deficiency as of 16 Table of Contents June 30, 2013, which includes a number of actions. The Illinois Department of Insurance has not yet responded to the plan. If the Illinois Department of Insurance does not approve AIC’s proposed plan or if AIC is not compliant as of the plan date of June 30, 2013, the Director of the Illinois Department of Insurance could deem AIC to be in hazardous financial condition and could take one or more of the remedial actions authorized by law for such a condition. Such action by the Illinois Department of Insurance would have a material adverse affect on the Company’s operations and the interests of its creditors and stockholders. Such action by the Illinois Department of Insurance also would trigger a further event of default under the Company’s senior secured credit facility allowing the Company’s lenders to declare all amounts outstanding under the facility to be immediately due and payable, and if such amounts were declared immediately due and payable by the lenders, it would have a material adverse effect on our operations and the interests of our creditors and stockholders. The Company is pursuing various actions to address these issues including, but not limited to, refinancing of its debt, obtaining additional financing or entering into certain transactions, such as sales of assets or operations. The Company’s recent history of recurring losses from operations, its failure to comply with the Financial Covenants in its senior secured credit facility, its failure to comply with the Illinois Department of Insurance reserve requirement, and the substantial liquidity needs the Company will face when its senior secured credit facility expires in January 2014 raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in their auditors’ report included herein regarding the substantial doubt about the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern. This “going concern paragraph” may constitute an event of default under the Company’s senior secured credit facility; however, the lenders have waived any such event of default as of December 31, 2012. Disruptions in the overall economy and the financial markets may adversely impact our business and results of operations. The insurance industry can be affected by many macroeconomic factors, including changes in national, regional, and local economic conditions, employment levels and consumer spending patterns. Disruptions in the overall economy and financial markets could reduce consumer confidence in the economy and adversely affect consumers’ ability to purchase automobile insurance policies or ancillary products from us, which could be harmful to our financial position and results of operations, adversely affect our ability to comply with our covenants under our credit facility. Such declines may also, in addition to negatively impacting our operating results, adversely impact our overall financial condition, liquidity, credit rating, ability to access capital markets, and ability to retain and attract key employees. There can be no assurances that government responses to the recent disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. Our largest stockholder controls a significant percentage of our common stock and its interests may conflict with those of our other stockholders. New Affirmative LLC (New Affirmative) beneficially owns 51.0% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, New Affirmative exercises significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, changes to our charter documents and significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership makes it unlikely that any other holder or group of holders of our common stock will be able to affect the way we are managed or the direction of our business. The interests of New Affirmative with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us, such as future acquisitions, financings and other corporate opportunities and attempts to acquire us, may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. New Affirmative’s continued concentrated ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. 17 Table of Contents The market for trading our common stock may become unstable or cease to exist, which would adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our common stock. In June 2012, our common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Our common stock is now traded exclusively in the over-the-counter market. We cannot predict the actions of market makers, investors or other market participants, and can offer no assurances that the market for our common stock will remain stable. If there is no active trading market in our common stock, the market price and liquidity of our common stock will be adversely affected. Future issuances or sales of our common stock, including under our equity incentive plan or in connection with future acquisition activities, may adversely affect our common stock price. As of the date of this filing, we had an aggregate of 56,797,779 shares of our common stock authorized but unissued and not reserved for specific purposes. In general, we may issue all of these shares without any action or approval by our stockholders. We have reserved 3,000,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under our equity incentive plan, of which 410,194 shares are issuable upon vesting and exercise of options granted as of the date of this filing, including exercisable options of 2,407,000 as of December 31, 2012. In addition, we may pursue acquisitions of competitors and related businesses and may issue shares of our common stock in connection with these acquisitions. Sales or issuances of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock, and any sale or issuance of our common stock will dilute the percentage ownership held by our stockholders. New Affirmative, our largest stockholder, beneficially owns 51.0% of our common stock. New Affirmative has certain demand and piggyback registration rights with respect to the shares of our common stock it beneficially owns. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock by our largest stockholder, New Affirmative, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Because of our significant concentration in non-standard personal automobile insurance and in a limited number of states, our profitability may be adversely affected by negative developments and cyclical changes in the industry or negative developments in these states. Substantially all of our gross premiums written and our commission income and fees are generated from sales of non-standard personal automobile insurance policies. As a result of our concentration in this line of business, negative developments in the business, economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the non-standard personal automobile insurance industry could have a negative effect on our profitability and would have a more pronounced effect on us as compared to more diversified companies. Examples of such negative developments would be increasing trends in automobile repair costs, automobile parts costs, used car prices and medical care expenses, increased regulation, as well as increased litigation of claims and higher levels of fraudulent claims. All of these events can result in reduced profitability. In addition, the non-standard personal automobile insurance industry historically has been cyclical in nature, characterized by periods of severe price competition and excess underwriting capacity followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity. These fluctuations in the non-standard personal automobile insurance business cycle may negatively impact our profitability. Our financial results may be adversely affected by conditions in the states where our business is concentrated. Our business is concentrated in a limited number of states. For the year ended December 31, 2012, 45.1% of our gross premiums written related to policies issued to customers in Louisiana, 22.8% to customers in Texas, 10.1% to customers in Illinois and 9.0% to customers in Alabama. Our revenues and profitability are therefore 18 Table of Contents subject to prevailing regulatory, legal, economic, demographic, competitive and other conditions in these states. Changes in any of these conditions could make it less attractive for us to do business in these states and could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Intense competition could adversely affect our profitability. The non-standard personal automobile insurance business is highly competitive and, except for regulatory considerations, there are relatively few barriers to entry. Our insurance companies compete with other insurance companies that sell non-standard personal automobile insurance policies through independent agencies as well as with insurance companies that sell such policies directly to their customers. Our retail agencies and the independent agencies that sell our insurance products compete both with these direct writers and with other independent agencies. Therefore, our competitors are not only large national insurance companies, but also smaller regional insurance companies and independent agencies. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and may offer a broader range of products or competing products at lower prices. In addition, existing competitors may attempt to increase market share by lowering rates and new competitors may enter this market, particularly larger insurance companies that do not presently write non-standard personal automobile insurance. In this environment, we may experience a reduction in our underwriting margins or sales of our insurance policies may decrease as individuals purchase lower-priced products from other insurance companies. A loss of business to competitors offering similar insurance products at lower prices or having other competitive advantages could negatively affect our revenues and net income. In addition to selling policies for our own insurance companies, our retail stores offer and sell non-standard personal automobile insurance policies for unaffiliated insurance companies. As a result, our insurance companies compete with these unaffiliated insurance companies for sales to the customers of our owned retail stores. If the competing insurance products offered by an unaffiliated insurance company are priced lower or have more attractive features than the insurance policies offered by our insurance companies, customers of our retail stores may decide not to purchase insurance policies from our insurance companies and may instead purchase policies from the unaffiliated insurance company. A loss of business by our insurance companies resulting from our retail stores selling relatively more policies of unaffiliated insurance companies and fewer policies of our insurance companies could negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Our retail stores would, however, earn commission income and fees from the unaffiliated insurance companies for the sales of their policies. Our success depends on our ability to price accurately the risks we underwrite. The results of our operations and the financial condition of our insurance companies depend on our ability to underwrite and set premium rates accurately for a wide variety of risks. Rate adequacy is necessary to generate sufficient premiums to pay losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. In order to price our products accurately, we must collect and properly analyze a substantial amount of data; develop, test and apply appropriate rating formulas; closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends and project both severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy. Our ability to undertake these efforts successfully, and as a result price our products accurately, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are outside our control, including: • the availability of sufficient reliable data and our ability to properly analyze available data; • the uncertainties that inherently characterize estimates and assumptions; • our selection and application of appropriate rating and pricing techniques; and • unanticipated changes in legal standards, claim settlement practices, medical care expenses and automobile repair costs. 19 Table of Contents Consequently, we could under price risks, which would negatively affect our profit margins, or we could overprice risks, which could reduce our sales volume and competitiveness. In either event, the profitability of our insurance companies could be materially and adversely affected. If our actual losses and loss adjustment expenses exceed our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, we will incur additional charges to earnings. We maintain reserves to cover our estimated ultimate liability for losses and the related loss adjustment expenses for both reported and unreported claims on insurance policies issued by our insurance companies. The establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain process, involving actuarial and statistical projections of what we expect to be the cost of the ultimate settlement and administration of claims based on historical claims information, estimates of future trends in claims severity in multiple markets and other variable factors such as inflation. Due to the inherent uncertainty of estimating reserves, it has been necessary, and will continue to be necessary, to revise estimated future liabilities as reflected in our reserves for claims and related expenses. We cannot be sure that our ultimate losses and loss adjustment expenses will not materially exceed our reserves. To the extent that our reserves prove to be inadequate in the future, we would be required to increase our reserves for losses and the related loss adjustment expenses and incur a charge to earnings in the subsequent period during which such reserves are increased, which could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations in the subsequent period. In addition, we have a limited history in establishing reserves in certain states, and our reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses may not necessarily accurately predict future trends in our models to assess these amounts. We may not be successful in reducing our risk and increasing our underwriting capacity through reinsurance arrangements, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We use quota-share reinsurance primarily to increase our underwriting capacity and to reduce our exposure to losses. Quota-share reinsurance is a form of pro rata reinsurance arrangement in which the reinsurer participates in a specified percentage of the premiums and losses on every risk that comes within the scope of the reinsurance agreement in return for a portion of the corresponding premiums. The availability, cost and structure of reinsurance protection is subject to changing market conditions that are outside of our control. In order for these contracts to qualify for reinsurance accounting and thereby provide the additional underwriting capacity that we might need, the reinsurer generally must assume significant risk and have a reasonable possibility of a significant loss. Reinsurance may not be continuously available to us to the same extent and on the same terms and rates that are currently available. Although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent we transfer, or “cede,” risk to the reinsurer, we remain ultimately liable to the policyholder on all risks reinsured. As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not limit our ultimate obligations to policyholders to pay claims. We are subject to credit risks with respect to the financial strength of our reinsurers. The reinsurers for our quota share and excess of loss reinsurance agreements all have A- or better ratings from A.M. Best. Accordingly, we believe there is minimal credit risk related to these reinsurance receivables. The Michigan Catastrophic Claims Association (MCCA) is the mandatory reinsurance facility that covers no-fault medical losses above a specific retention amount in Michigan. We cede losses to the MCCA associated with the run-off of our Michigan business. We are also subject to the risk that our reinsurers may dispute their obligations to pay our claims. As a result, we may not recover claims made to our reinsurers in a timely manner, if at all. In addition, if insurance departments deem that under our existing or future reinsurance contracts the reinsurer does not assume significant risk and does not have a reasonable possibility of significant loss, we may not be able to increase our 20 Table of Contents ability to write business based on this reinsurance. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur significant losses if any of our reinsurers do not pay our claims in a timely manner. Although our reinsurers are liable to us to the extent we transfer risk to the reinsurers, we remain ultimately liable to our policyholders on all risks reinsured. Consequently, if any of our reinsurers cannot pay their reinsurance obligations, or dispute these obligations, we remain liable to pay the claims of our policyholders. In addition, our reinsurance agreements are subject to specified contractual limits on the amounts and types of losses covered, and we do not have reinsurance coverage to the extent our losses exceed those limits or are not of the type reinsured. As of December 31, 2012, we had a $13.7 million net recoverable from Vesta Fire Insurance Corporation (VFIC). We have, with the approval of the VFIC Special Deputy Receiver and the District Court, Austin, Texas, withdrawn $8.7 million from the trust securing our reinsurance recoverables from VFIC, which represented 100% of the amount we paid in losses as of the date of the withdrawal covered by the VFIC reinsurance. We have made arrangements with the VFIC Special Deputy Receiver to submit quarterly statements for approval to withdraw additional funds from the trust based upon losses paid. VFIC currently has been assigned a financial strength rating of “F” (In Liquidation) from A.M. Best. According to A.M. Best, “F” ratings are assigned to companies that have been placed under an order of liquidation by a court of law or whose owners have voluntarily agreed to liquidate the company. If any of our reinsurers are unable or unwilling to pay amounts they owe us in a timely fashion, we could suffer a significant loss, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to comprehensive regulation that may restrict our ability to earn profits. We are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by government agencies in the states in which our insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled, as well as in the states where our subsidiaries sell insurance products, issue policies and handle claims. Certain states impose restrictions or require prior regulatory approval of certain corporate actions, which may adversely affect our ability to operate, innovate, obtain necessary rate adjustments in a timely manner or grow our business profitably. These regulations provide safeguards for policy owners and are not intended to protect the interests of stockholders. Our ability to comply with these laws and regulations at reasonable expense and to obtain necessary regulatory actions or approvals in a timely manner is and will continue to be critical to our success. • Required licensing. We operate under licenses issued by various state insurance authorities. If a regulatory authority denies or delays granting a new license, our ability to enter that market quickly or offer new insurance products in that market might be substantially impaired. • Transactions between insurance companies and their affiliates. Transactions between our insurance companies and their affiliates generally must be disclosed to state regulators, and prior approval of the applicable regulator generally is required before any material or extraordinary transaction may be consummated. State regulators may refuse to approve or delay approval of such a transaction, which may impact our ability to innovate or operate efficiently. • Restrictions on cancellation, non-renewal or withdrawal. Many states have laws and regulations that limit an insurance company’s ability to exit a market. For example, certain states limit an automobile insurance company’s ability to cancel or not renew policies. Some states prohibit an insurance company from withdrawing from one or more lines of business in the state, except pursuant to a plan approved by the state insurance department. In some states, this applies to significant reductions in the amount of insurance written, not just to a complete withdrawal. These laws and regulations could limit our ability to exit or reduce our writings in unprofitable markets or discontinue unprofitable products in the future. • Other regulations. We must also comply with state and federal regulations involving, among other things: — the use of non-public consumer information and related privacy issues; 21 Table of Contents — the use of credit history in underwriting and rating; — limitations on types and amounts of investments; — premium finance laws and regulations; — the payment of dividends; — the acquisition or disposition of an insurance company or of any company controlling an insurance company; — involuntary assignments of high-risk policies, participation in reinsurance facilities and underwriting associations, assessments and other governmental charges; — the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; — SEC reporting; — reporting with respect to financial condition; and — periodic financial and market conduct examinations performed by state insurance department examiners. Compliance with laws and regulations addressing these and other issues often will result in increased administrative costs. In addition, these laws and regulations may limit our ability to underwrite and price risks accurately, prevent us from obtaining timely rate increases necessary to cover increased costs and may restrict our ability to discontinue unprofitable relationships or exit unprofitable markets. These results, in turn, may adversely affect our profitability or our ability to grow our business in certain jurisdictions. The failure to comply with these laws and regulations may also result in actions by regulators, fines and penalties, and in extreme cases, revocation of our ability to do business in that jurisdiction. In addition, we may face individual and class action lawsuits by our insureds and other parties for alleged violations of certain of these laws or regulations. Regulation may become more extensive in the future, which may adversely affect our business. We cannot assure that states will not make existing insurance-related laws and regulations more restrictive in the future or enact new restrictive laws. New or more restrictive regulation in any state in which we conduct business could make it more expensive for us to conduct our business, restrict the premiums we are able to charge or otherwise change the way we do business. In such events, we may seek to reduce our writings in, or to withdraw entirely from these states. In addition, from time to time, the United States Congress and certain federal agencies investigate the current condition of the insurance industry to determine whether federal regulation is necessary. We are unable to predict whether and to what extent new laws and regulations that would affect our business will be adopted in the future, the timing of any such adoption and what effects, if any, they may have on our operations, profitability and financial condition. New pricing, claims, coverage and financing issues and class action litigation are continually emerging in the automobile insurance industry, and these issues could adversely impact our revenues or our methods of doing business. As automobile insurance industry practices and regulatory, judicial and consumer conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims, coverages, business practices and premium financing plans may emerge. These issues can have an adverse effect on our business by changing the way we price our products, by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent, or by increasing the size of claims. Examples of such issues include: • concerns over the use of an applicant’s credit score and zip code as a factor in making risk selections and pricing decisions; 22 Table of Contents • a growing trend of plaintiffs targeting automobile insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling practices, such as the permitted use of aftermarket (non-original equipment manufacturer) parts, total loss evaluation methodology and the alleged diminution in value to insureds’ vehicles involved in accidents; • a relatively new trend of plaintiffs targeting insurers, including automobile insurers, in purported class action litigation which seek to recharacterize installment fees and other allowed charges related to insurers’ installment billing programs as interest that violates state usury laws or other interest rate restrictions; and • attempts by plaintiffs to initiate purported class action litigation targeting premium finance operations relating to unearned interest rebates and the collection of service and finance charges. The effects and costs of these and other unforeseen issues could negatively affect our revenues, income or our methods of business. Our insurance companies are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements, and our failure to meet these requirements could subject us to regulatory action. Our insurance companies are subject to risk-based capital standards and other minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed under applicable state laws, including the laws of their state of domicile. The risk-based capital standards, based upon the Risk-Based Capital Model Act adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, require our insurance companies to report their results of risk-based capital calculations to state departments of insurance and the NAIC. These risk-based capital standards provide for different levels of regulatory attention depending upon the ratio of an insurance company’s total adjusted capital, as calculated in accordance with NAIC guidelines, to its authorized control level risk-based capital and trend test. Authorized control level risk-based capital is the number determined by applying the NAIC’s risk-based capital formula, which measures the minimum amount of capital that an insurance company needs to support its overall business operations. Failure to meet applicable risk-based capital requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements could subject us to further examination or corrective action imposed by state regulators, including limitations on our writing of additional business, state supervision or liquidation. Any changes in existing risk-based capital requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements may require us to increase our statutory capital levels. At December 31, 2012, each of our insurance subsidiaries maintained a risk-based capital level that was in excess of an amount that would require any corrective actions. Our failure to maintain financial strength requirements as set forth by various state departments of insurance could adversely affect our business and overall liquidity. Various individual state departments of insurance in jurisdictions where our insurance company subsidiaries conduct business maintain specific requirements in connection with the financial strength of property and casualty insurance companies. Failure on the part of our insurance company subsidiaries to comply with these requirements could subject us to an examination or corrective action imposed by state regulators, including limitations on our writing of additional business, state supervision or liquidation. The Illinois Insurance Code includes a reserve requirement that an insurer maintain an amount of qualifying investments, as defined, at least equal to the lesser of $250.0 million or 100% of its adjusted loss reserves and loss adjustment expenses reserves, as defined. As of December 31, 2011, Affirmative Insurance Company (AIC) was deficient in meeting the qualifying investments requirement by $18.9 million, but submitted a plan to cure such deficiency to the Illinois Department of Insurance by September 30, 2012, which was approved and through various actions AIC was deemed by the Illinois Department of Insurance to be brought into compliance with the reserve requirement as of September 30, 2012. As of December 31, 2012, AIC was deficient in meeting the 23 Table of Contents qualifying investments requirement by $16.5 million. Management has submitted a plan to cure the deficiency as of June 30, 2013, which includes a number of actions. The Illinois Department of Insurance has not yet responded to the plan. If the Illinois Department of Insurance does not approve AIC’s proposed plan or if AIC is not compliant as of the plan date of June 30, 2013, the Director of the Illinois Department of Insurance could deem AIC to be in hazardous financial condition and could take one or more of the remedial actions authorized by law for such a condition. Such action by the Illinois Department of Insurance would have a material adverse affect on the Company’s operations and the interests of its creditors and stockholders. Such action by the Illinois Department of Insurance also would trigger a further event of default under the Company’s senior secured credit facility allowing the Company’s lenders to declare all amounts outstanding under the facility to be immediately due and payable, and if such amounts were declared immediately due and payable by the lenders, it would have a material adverse effect on our operations and the interests of our creditors and stockholders. Our failure to pay claims accurately could adversely affect our business, financial results and capital requirements. We must accurately evaluate and pay claims that are made under our policies. Many factors affect our ability to pay claims accurately, including the training and experience of our claims representatives, the culture of our claims organization and the effectiveness of our management, our ability to develop or select and implement appropriate procedures and systems to support our claims functions and other factors. Our failure to pay claims accurately could lead to material litigation, undermine our reputation in the marketplace, impair our image, as a result, and negatively affect our financial results. In addition, if we do not train new claims employees effectively or if we lose a significant number of experienced claims employees, our claims department’s ability to handle an increasing workload as we grow could be adversely affected. In addition to potentially requiring that growth be slowed in the affected markets, we could suffer decreased quality of claims work, which in turn could lower our operating margins. If we are unable to retain and recruit qualified personnel, our ability to implement our business strategies could be hindered. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel could prevent us from fully implementing our business strategies and could materially and adversely affect our business, growth and profitability. We do not have key person insurance on the lives of any of our executive officers. We may encounter difficulties in implementing our strategies of expanding into new markets and acquiring agencies. Our growth strategy includes expanding into new geographic markets, introducing additional insurance and non-insurance products and acquiring the business and assets of underwriting and retail agencies. Our future growth will face risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • obtain necessary licenses; • properly design and price our products; • identify, hire and train new claims and sales employees; • identify agency acquisition candidates; and • assimilate and integrate the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of the acquired companies. We may also encounter difficulties in connection with implementing our growth strategy, including unanticipated expenditures, damaged or lost relationships with customers and independent agencies and 24 Table of Contents contractual, intellectual property or employment issues relating to companies we acquire. In addition, our growth strategy may require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. Further, any potential agency acquisitions may require significant capital outlays, and if we issue equity or convertible debt securities to pay for an acquisition, these securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stockholders or the issuance may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Once agencies are acquired, we could suffer increased costs, disruption of our business and distraction of our management if we are unable to smoothly integrate the agencies into our operations. Our expansion will also continue to place significant demands on our management, operations, systems, accounting, internal controls and financial resources. Any failure by us to manage our growth and to respond to changes in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our underwriting operations are vulnerable to a reduction in the amount of business written by independent agencies. For the year ended December 31, 2012, independent agencies were responsible for 29.4% of the gross premiums produced by our underwriting agencies. As a result, our business depends in part on the marketing efforts of independent agencies and on our ability to offer insurance products and services that meet the requirements of these independent agencies and their customers. Independent agencies are not obligated to sell or promote our products, and since many of our competitors rely significantly on the independent agency market, we must compete with other insurance companies and underwriting agencies for independent agencies’ business. Some of our competitors offer a larger variety of products, lower prices for insurance coverage or higher commissions, and we therefore may not be able to continue to attract and retain independent agencies to sell our insurance products. A material reduction in the amount of business our independent agencies sell would negatively impact our revenues. If we are unable to establish and maintain relationships with unaffiliated insurance companies to sell their non-standard personal automobile policies through our owned retail stores, our sales volume and profitability may suffer. Our owned retail stores sell non-standard personal automobile insurance policies for our insurance companies and also for unaffiliated insurance companies. Particularly in soft markets, our commitment to underwriting discipline may result in declining sales of our insurance companies’ policies in favor of lower-priced products from other insurance companies willing to accept less attractive underwriting margins. Consequently, part of our strategy in a soft market is to generate increased commission income and fees from sales of third-party policies through our retail stores’ relationships with unaffiliated underwriting agencies and insurance companies. If our retail stores are unable to establish and maintain these relationships, they would have a more limited selection of non-standard personal automobile insurance policies to sell. In such an event, our retail stores might experience a net decline in overall sales volume of non-standard personal automobile insurance policies, which would decrease our profitability. We face litigation, which if decided adversely to us, could adversely impact our financial results. We are a party in a number of lawsuits. These lawsuits are described more fully elsewhere in this report. Litigation, by its very nature, is unpredictable and the outcome of these cases is uncertain. The precise nature of the relief that may be sought or granted in any lawsuits is uncertain and may, if these lawsuits are determined adversely to us, negatively impact our earnings. In addition, potential litigation involving new claim, coverage and business practice issues could adversely affect our business by changing the way we price our products, extending coverage beyond our underwriting 25 Table of Contents intent or increasing the size of claims. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claims, coverage and business practice issues could negatively impact our profitability or our methods of doing business. Adverse securities market conditions can have a significant and negative impact on our investment portfolio. Our results of operations depend in part on the performance of our invested assets. As of December 31, 2012, our investment portfolio was primarily invested in fixed-income securities. Certain risks are inherent in connection with fixed maturity securities including loss upon default and price volatility in reaction to changes in interest rates and general market factors. In general, the fair value of a portfolio of fixed-income securities increases or decreases inversely with changes in the market interest rates, while net investment income realized from future investments in fixed-income securities increases or decreases along with interest rates. In addition, some of our fixed-income securities have call or prepayment options. This could subject us to reinvestment risk should interest rates fall and issuers call their securities. We attempt to mitigate this risk by investing in securities with varied maturity dates, so that only a portion of the portfolio will mature at any point in time. Furthermore, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. An investment has prepayment risk when there is a risk that the timing of cash flows that result from the repayment of principal might occur earlier than anticipated because of declining interest rates or later than anticipated because of rising interest rates. If market interest rates were to change 1.0% (for example, the difference between 5.0% and 6.0%), the fair value of our fixed-income securities would change approximately $0.5 million. The change in fair value was determined using duration modeling assuming no prepayments. If we are unable to refinance our debt as it matures, it could have an adverse impact on our business and overall liquidity. In 2007, we entered into a $220.0 million senior secured credit facility (the facility) provided by a syndicate of lenders, that provided for a $200.0 million senior term loan facility and a revolving facility of up to $20.0 million, depending on our borrowing capacity. The principal amount of the term loan is payable in quarterly installments, with the remaining balance due January 31, 2014. Beginning in 2008, we were also required to make additional annual principal payments that are calculated based upon our financial performance during the preceding fiscal year. In addition, certain events, such as the sale of material assets or the issuance of significant new equity, necessitate additional required principal repayments. During 2012, we made $3.5 million in principal payments. The revolving portion of the facility expired in January 2010. In November 2012, we entered into an incremental term loan with a face amount of $8.0 million, and funded amount of $5.5 million net of a $2.5 million non-cash original issue discount. Repayment of the full $8.0 million is due on or prior to January 17, 2014. Our obligations under the facility are guaranteed by our material operating subsidiaries (other than our insurance companies) and are secured by a first lien security interest on all of our assets and the assets of our material operating subsidiaries (other than our insurance companies), including a pledge of 100% of the stock of AIC. Due to declining performance and continued losses from operations, the Company was in violation of certain debt covenants as of December 31, 2012. See discussion under the first Risk Factor “There is Substantial Doubt About the Company’s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. If the Company is unable to refinance or extend the maturity of the senior secured credit facility when it expires in January 2014, it would have a material adverse effect on our operations and our creditors and stockholders. 26 Table of Contents We are subject to a number of restrictive debt covenants under our credit facility that may restrict our business and financing activities. Our credit facility contains restrictive debt covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • Borrow money; • Pay dividends and make distributions; • Issue stock; • Make certain investments; • Use assets as security in other transactions; • Create liens; • Enter into affiliate transactions; • Merge or consolidate; or • Transfer and sell assets. Our credit facility also requires us to meet certain financial tests, and our need to meet the requirements of these financial tests may limit our ability to expand or pursue our business strategies. Due to declining performance and continued losses from operations, the Company was in violation of certain debt covenants as of December 31, 2012. See discussion under the first Risk Factor “There is Substantial Doubt About the Company’s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. If the Company is unable to refinance or extend the maturity of the senior secured credit facility when it expires in January 2014, it would have a material adverse effect on our operations and our creditors and stockholders. We rely on our information technology and telecommunications systems, and the failure of these systems could disrupt our operations. Our business is highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our current information technology and telecommunications systems as well as our recently implemented integrated policy and claims system. We rely on these systems to process new and renewal business, provide customer service, make claims payments and facilitate collections and cancellations, as well as to perform actuarial and other analytical functions necessary for pricing and product development. As a result, the failure of these systems could interrupt our operations and adversely affect our financial results. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business and provide customer service or compromise our ability to pay claims in a timely manner. This could result in a material adverse effect on our business. As part of our efforts to continue improving our internal control over financial reporting, we upgraded and transformed our information technology system. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to new or upgraded systems, including loss of data and decreases in productivity until personnel become familiar with new systems. In addition, our management information systems will require modification and refinement as we grow and as our business needs change, which could prolong difficulties we experience with systems transitions, and we may not always employ the most effective systems for our purposes. If we experience difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or experience significant system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our management information systems and respond to changes in our business needs, our operating results could be harmed or we may fail to meet our reporting obligations. 27 Table of Contents We could be harmed by data loss or other security breaches Because we rely on information technology and telecommunications systems to operate our business, and we store large amounts of data, including personal information regarding our customers, a loss of data or security breach involving those systems could expose us or our customers to a risk of loss or misuse of such information, adversely affect our operating results, result in litigation or potential liability, or otherwise harm our business. Additionally, we rely on third parties and their information technology systems to provide services associated with certain aspects of our business. Although we have implemented systems and processes designed to protect personal information regarding our customers and prevent data loss and other security breaches, such measures cannot provide absolute security. Severe weather conditions and other catastrophes may result in an increase in the number and amount of claims filed against us. Our business is exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions and other catastrophic events, such as rainstorms, snowstorms, hail and ice storms, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires and other events such as explosions, terrorist attacks and riots. The incidence and severity of catastrophes and severe weather conditions are inherently unpredictable. Such conditions generally result in higher incidence of automobile accidents and an increase in the number of claims filed, as well as the amount of compensation sought by claimants. As a holding company, we are dependent on the results of operations of our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations. We are organized as a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. As a holding company without significant operations of our own, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries, which include our agency subsidiaries and our insurance company subsidiaries. State insurance laws restrict the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to declare stockholder dividends. These subsidiaries may not make an “extraordinary dividend” until 30 days after the applicable commissioner of insurance has received notice of the intended dividend and has not objected in such time or until the commissioner has approved the payment of the extraordinary dividend within the 30-day period. In most states, an extraordinary dividend is defined as any dividend or distribution of cash or other property whose fair market value, together with that of other dividends and distributions made within the preceding 12 months, exceeds the greater of 10.0% of the insurance company’s surplus as of the preceding year-end or the insurance company’s net income for the preceding year, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices. In addition, dividends may only be paid from unassigned earnings and an insurance company’s remaining surplus must be both reasonable in relation to its outstanding liabilities and adequate to its financial needs. As of December 31, 2012, Affirmative Insurance Company (AIC) could not pay ordinary dividends to the holding company without prior regulatory approval due to AIC’s negative unassigned surplus position. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 