Risk Factors.” 6 The prevailing oil price environment may require that we sell certain assets, restructure our debt, raise additional debt or equity, or seek protection. Should the prevailing oil prices as of December 31, 2014 remain in effect for an extended period of time, it is likely that we would need to pursue some form of asset sale, debt restructuring, or capital raising effort in order to fund its operations and to service its existing debt during the next twelve months. Our management is actively developing plans to improve its working capital position and/or to reduce its future debt service costs, through the aforementioned means, in order to remain a going concern for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to restructure our Bonds, obtain additional debt or equity financing or achieve adequate proceeds from the sale of assets, we may file a voluntary petition for reorganization relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in order to provide us with additional time to identify an appropriate solution to our financial situation and to implement a plan of reorganization aimed at improving our capital structure. We recognized impairment losses of approximately $81.9 million associated with our US cost center for the year ended December 31, 2014, and, depending on future oil and gas prices, may recognize further impairment losses in the future. We recognized impairment losses totaling approximately $81.9 million associated with our US cost center for the year ended December 31, 2014. Continued prolonged declines in oil and gas prices may result in additional impairment of our oil and gas properties, causing the operation of certain oil and gas wells to become uneconomic and adversely impact our liquidity. Our common stock is listed on the NYSE MKT but may be subject to a delisting procedure. Our common stock is listed on the NYSE MKT (the “Exchange”). Although we have not received any communications from the Exchange regarding its initiation of any potential delisting process, based upon the recent price of our common stock, it is possible that we might receive a notification that we have had fallen below the Exchange’s continued listing standard relating to minimum share price – a minimum average closing price of $1.00 per share over 30 consecutive trading days. The price of our common stock has remained below such threshold for more than such period. There is no assurance that we will operate profitably or will generate positive cash flow in the future. If we cannot generate positive cash flows in the future, or raise sufficient financing to continue our normal operations, then we may be forced to scale down or even close our operations. In particular, additional capital may be required in the event that drilling and completion costs for further wells increase beyond our expectations, or that we encounter greater costs associated with general and administrative expenses or offering costs. The occurrence of any of the aforementioned events could adversely affect our ability to meet our business plan. We will depend heavily on outside capital to pay for the continued exploration and development of our properties. Such outside capital may include the sale of additional stock and/or commercial borrowing. Capital may not continue to be available if necessary to meet these continuing exploration and development costs or, if capital is available, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. The issuance of additional equity securities by us would result in a significant dilution in the equity interests of our current stockholders. Obtaining commercial loans, assuming those loans would be available, will increase our liabilities and future cash commitments. If we are unable to obtain financing in the amounts and on terms deemed acceptable to us, we may be unable to continue our business and as a result may be required to scale back or cease operations for our business, the result of which would be that our stockholders would lose some or all of their investment. A decline in the price of our common stock could affect our ability to raise further working capital and adversely impact our operations. Future acquisitions and future exploration, development, production and marketing activities, as well as our administrative requirements (such as salaries, insurance expenses and general overhead expenses, as well as legal compliance costs and accounting expenses) will require a substantial amount of capital and cash flow. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement, we may pursue sources of additional capital through various financing transactions or arrangements, including joint venturing of projects, debt financing, equity financing or other means. We may not be successful in identifying suitable financing transactions in the time period required or at all, and we may not obtain the capital we require by other means. If we do not succeed in raising additional capital, our resources may not be sufficient to fund our operations in the future. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity will dilute the ownership percentage of our stockholders. Raising any such capital could also result in a decrease in the fair market value of our equity securities because our assets would be owned by a larger pool of outstanding equity. The terms of securities we issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable to our new investors, and may include preferences, superior voting rights and the issuance of other securities. In addition, we have granted and will continue to grant equity incentive awards under our equity incentive plans, which may have a further dilutive effect. Our ability to obtain financing, if and when necessary, may be impaired by such factors as the capital markets (both generally and in the oil and natural gas industry in particular), the location of our oil and natural gas properties, and prices of oil and natural gas on the commodities markets (which will impact the amount of asset-based financing available to us) and the departure of key employees. Further, if oil or natural gas prices decline, our revenues will likely decrease and such decreased revenues may increase our requirements for capital. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations, is not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs (even to the extent that we reduce our operations), we may be required to cease our operations, divest our assets at unattractive prices, or obtain financing on unattractive terms. 7 We may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses, and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, which may adversely impact our financial condition. If we are not able to generate sufficient funds from our operations and other financing sources, we may not be able to finance our planned development activity, acquisitions, or service our debt. We have been dependent on debt and equity financing to fund our cash needs that are not funded from operations or the sale of assets, and we will continue to incur additional indebtedness to fund our operations. Low commodity prices, production problems, disappointing drilling results, and other factors beyond our control could reduce our funds from operations and may restrict our ability to obtain additional financing or to pay interest and principal on our debt obligations. Furthermore, we have incurred losses in the past that may affect our ability to obtain financing. Quantifying or predicting the likelihood of any or all of these occurring is difficult in the current domestic and world economy. For these reasons, financing may not be available to us in the future on acceptable terms or at all. In the event additional capital is required but not available on acceptable terms, we would curtail our acquisition, drilling, development, and other activities or could be forced to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis. Restrictive debt covenants could limit our growth and our ability to finance out operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions, and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. Our Bonds (see Exhibit 10.28) contains a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict or limit our ability to: ·Pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock; ·Enter into certain transactions with affiliates; ·Create or assume certain liens on our assets; ·Merge or to enter into other business combination transactions; ·Enter into transactions that would result in a change of control of us; or ·Engage in certain other corporate activities. Also, our Credit Agreement (see Exhibit 10.31) requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to comply with these ratios and financial condition tests may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet these ratios and financial condition tests. These financial ratio restrictions and financial condition tests could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive covenants under our Credit Agreement impose on us. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or financial condition tests could result in a default under our Credit Agreement. A default, if not cured or waived, could result in all indebtedness outstanding under our Credit Agreement becoming immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could accelerate the maturity of the debt or proceed against any collateral granted to them to secure such defaulted debt. 8 If we are not successful in continuing to grow our business, then we may have to scale back or even cease our ongoing business operations. Our success is significantly dependent on a successful acquisition, drilling, completion, and production program. We may be unable to locate recoverable reserves or operate on a profitable basis. If our business plan is not successful, and we are not able to operate profitably, our investors may lose some or all of their investment. We may have difficulty integrating and managing the growth associated with our acquisitions. Our acquisitions may place a significant strain on our financial, technical, operational, and administrative resources. We may not be able to integrate the operations of the acquired assets without increases in costs, losses in revenues or other difficulties. In addition, we may not be able to realize the operating efficiencies, synergies, costs savings, or other benefits expected from such acquisitions. Any unexpected costs or delays incurred in connection with such integration could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may need to hire new employees to help manage our operations, and we may need to add resources as we scale up our business. However, we may experience difficulties in finding additional qualified personnel and we may need to supplement our staff with contract and consultant personnel until we are able to hire new employees. Our ability to continue to grow after acquisitions will depend upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify and acquire new exploratory prospects and other acquisition targets, our ability to develop then existing prospects, our ability to successfully adopt an operated approach, our ability to continue to retain and attract skilled personnel, the results of our drilling program and acquisition efforts, hydrocarbon prices and access to capital. We may not be successful in achieving or managing growth, and any such failure could have a material adverse effect on us. A portion of our properties are located in undeveloped areas. There can be no assurance that we will establish commercial discoveries on these properties. Exploration for economic reserves of oil and gas is subject to a number of risk factors. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing oil and/or gas wells. A number of our properties are in the exploration stage only and are without proven reserves of oil and gas. We may not establish commercial discoveries on any of these properties that do not have any proved developed or undeveloped reserves. See discussion regarding undeveloped properties in 