Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur ability to retain our senior managing directors is critical to the success of our businessThe success of our business depends upon the personal reputation, judgment, integrity, business generation capabilities and project execution skills of our managing directors and senior advisors, particularly our senior managing directors. Our managing directors’ personal reputations and relationships with our clients are a critical element in obtaining and maintaining client engagements. Accordingly, the retention of our managing directors, who are not obligated to remain employed with us, is particularly crucial to our future success. Managing directors have left the Firm in the past and others may do so in the future, and we cannot predict the impact that the departure of any managing director will have on our business. The departure or other loss of Mr. Greenhill, our founder and Chairman, Scott L. Bok, our Chief Executive Officer, the regional heads of businesses in North America, Europe, Australia, or Japan, or the departure or other loss of other senior managing directors, each of whom manages substantial client relationships and possesses substantial experience and expertise, could materially adversely affect our ability to secure and successfully complete engagements, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations.In addition, if any of our managing directors were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. There is no guarantee that the compensation arrangements and non-competition agreements we have entered into with our managing directors are sufficiently broad or effective to prevent our managing directors from resigning to join our competitors or that the non-competition agreements would be upheld if we were to seek to enforce our rights under these agreements.Almost all of our revenues are derived from advisory feesWe earn substantially all of our revenues from advisory fees paid to us by each of our clients, in large part upon the successful completion of the client's transaction, restructuring or capital raising. Unlike diversified investment banks, which generate revenues from securities trading and underwriting, our only other source of revenue is gains or losses which we may generate from our investments in Iridium and merchant banking funds, which have declined and will continue to decline in value over time as we liquidate our investments. As a result, a decline in our advisory engagements or the market for advisory services generally would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our engagements are singular in nature and do not provide for subsequent engagementsOur clients generally retain us on a non-exclusive, short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific transactions or projects, rather than under long-term contracts covering potential additional future services. As these transactions are singular in nature and our engagements are not likely to recur, we must seek out new engagements when our current engagements are successfully completed or are terminated. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in the next-succeeding period or any other period. In addition, we generally derive most of our engagement revenues at key transaction milestones, such as announcement or closing, and the timing of these milestones is outside our control. In cases where an engagement is terminated prior to the successful completion of a transaction or project, whether 8Table of Contentsdue to market reasons or otherwise, we may earn limited or no fees and may not be able to recoup the costs we incurred prior to the termination. A high percentage of our advisory revenues is derived from a few clients and the termination of any one advisory engagement could reduce our revenues and harm our operating resultsEach year, we advise a limited number of clients. Our top ten client engagements accounted for 36% of our total revenues in 2012 and 35% of our total revenues in 2011. Although we did not have any client engagements that accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues in 2012 or 2011, we have had client engagements which accounted for more than 10% of our annual revenues in prior years. We earned $1 million or more from 66 clients in 2012, compared to 74 in 2011, of which 32% of the clients were new to the Firm in 2012. While the composition of the group comprising our largest clients varies significantly from year to year, we expect that our advisory engagements will continue to be limited to a relatively small number of clients, compared to some of our larger competitors, and that an even smaller number of those clients will account for a high percentage of revenues in any particular year. As a result, the adverse impact on our results of operation from lost engagements or the failure of transactions or restructurings or fund raisings on which we are advising to be completed can be significant.We generate a significant portion of our revenues from our services in connection with mergers and acquisitions and we have not historically been able to offset a decline in revenues from merger and acquisition services with other revenues from our financing advisory and restructuring servicesDuring a period when mergers and acquisitions activity declines and debt defaults increase, we increasingly rely on financing advisory and restructuring and bankruptcy services as a source of new business. We provide various restructuring and restructuring-related advice to companies in financial distress or their creditors or other stakeholders. A number of factors affect demand for these advisory services, including general economic conditions and the availability and cost of debt and equity financing. Presently, our financing advisory and restructuring business is significantly smaller than our mergers and acquisitions advisory business, and historically, we have been unable to offset declines in mergers and acquisitions revenue with revenue generated from financing advisory and restructuring assignments and expect that we will be unlikely to do so in the foreseeable future. Despite adverse market conditions, the number of debt defaults and bankruptcies has remained limited, diminishing our ability to generate revenue from financing advisory and restructuring activities. To the extent that there is limited debt default activity, our ability to generate revenues from financing advisory and restructuring activities may be adversely affected.Fees earned in connection with advisory assignments in the bankruptcy context may be subject to challenge and reductionIn our advisory business we, from time to time, advise debtors or creditors of companies which are involved in bankruptcy proceedings in the United States Bankruptcy Courts. Under the applicable rules of those courts, our fees are subject to approval by the court and other interested parties have the ability to challenge the payment of those fees. Fees earned and reflected in our revenues may from time to time be subject to successful challenges, which could result in a reduction of revenues and affect our stock price adversely.Our business has been adversely affected by difficult market conditions and may continue to be adversely affected by market uncertainty, volatility, disruptions in the credit and equity markets and other unfavorable economic, geopolitical or market conditionsAdverse market or economic conditions would likely affect the number, size and timing of transactions on which we provide advice and therefore adversely affect our advisory fees. As demonstrated over the past few years and during prior cycles, economic uncertainty, volatility, slow economic growth and weak financial markets negatively impact merger and acquisition and capital raising activity. Concerns over the rate of economic recovery, the level of U.S. national debt, the European sovereign debt crisis, the ability of certain countries to remain in the eurozone, unemployment, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. housing market, inflation levels, energy costs and geopolitical issues have contributed to increased volatility, uncertainty and diminished expectations for the economy and for the markets. Our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on access to the credit and/or equity markets to finance their transactions. The uncertainty of available credit and the volatility of equity markets can adversely affect the size, volume, timing and ability of our clients to successfully complete merger and acquisition transactions and adversely affect our advisory business. Furthermore, market volatility also affects our clients’ ability and willingness to engage in stock-for-stock transactions.While we operate in North America, Europe, Australia, and Asia, our operations in the United States and Europe historically have provided most of our revenues and earnings. Consequently, our revenues and profitability are particularly affected by economic conditions in these locations. Credit downgrades of government debt in the United States and Europe could adversely affect the volume of activity in those markets and therefore, adversely affect our revenues and earnings.9Table of ContentsAdverse market or economic conditions, including continuing volatility in the equity markets, limited access to credit as well as a slowdown of economic activity could also adversely affect the business operations of Iridium and other companies in which we have investments, and therefore, our earnings. In addition, during a market downturn, there may be fewer opportunities to exit and realize value from our investments in merchant banking funds and Iridium at attractive values.There can be no assurance that governmental or other measures to aid economic recovery, including economic stimulus legislation, will be effective. As these conditions persist, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected.Our capital advisory business is dependent on the availability of private capital for deployment in illiquid asset classes such as private equity and real estate fundsIn our capital advisory business we assist fund managers and sponsors in raising capital for new private funds. Our ability to find suitable engagements and earn fees in this business depends on the availability of private and public capital for investments in illiquid assets such as private equity and real estate funds. Following the onset of the financial crisis, there was a shortage of such capital, and far fewer new funds were raised than in the period preceding the crisis. In addition, new funds raised in the current environment generally obtain smaller aggregate capital commitments than in earlier years, and the fund raising process takes longer to complete. Moreover, with improved returns in the equity markets there is no certainty that the asset allocations to private funds will remain at the levels seen prior to the 2007 financial crisis. To the extent private and public capital focused on illiquid investment opportunities remains limited, our ability to earn fees in the capital advisory business may be adversely affected.We face strong competition from far larger firms and other independent firms The investment banking industry is intensely competitive and we expect it to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our advice and service, innovation, reputation and price. We believe we may experience pricing pressures in our areas of operation in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. We are a relatively small investment bank, with 324 employees (including managing directors and senior advisors) as of December 31, 2012 and total revenues of $285.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. Most of our competitors in the investment banking industry have a far greater range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition, more managing directors to serve their clients' needs, greater global reach and broader relationships with their clients than we have. These larger and better capitalized competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the investment banking market, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share generally. Our full line investment banking competitors and other large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms that have established or acquired financial advisory practices and broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage, hedging, foreign exchange, asset management and investment banking services, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services revenues in an effort to gain market share, which could result in pricing pressure in our businesses. In particular, the ability to provide financing as well as advisory services has become an important advantage for some of our larger competitors, and because we are unable to provide such financing, we may be unable to compete for advisory clients in a significant part of the advisory market. In addition to our larger competitors, over the last few years, a number of independent boutique investment banks have emerged which offer independent advisory services and some of these firms have grown rapidly. As these independent firms seek to gain market share there could be pricing pressure, which would adversely affect our revenues and earnings. In addition, our capital advisory business operates in a highly competitive environment and the barriers to entry into the fund placement business are low.There will not be a consistent pattern in our financial results from quarter to quarter, which may result in volatility of our stock priceWe can experience significant variations in revenues and profits during each quarterly period. These variations can generally be attributed to the fact that our revenues are usually earned in large amounts throughout the year upon the successful completion of a transaction or restructuring, the timing of which is uncertain and is not subject to our control. Moreover, the timing of our recognition of gains or losses from our investment portfolio may vary significantly from period to period and depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including most notably market and general economic conditions.Compared to our larger, more diversified competitors in the financial services industry, we generally experience even greater variations in our revenues and profits. This is due to our dependence on a relatively small number of transactions for a large 10Table of Contentspercentage of our revenues, with the result that our earnings can be significantly affected if any particular transaction is not completed successfully, and to the fact that we lack other, more stable sources of revenue in material amounts, such as brokerage and asset management fees, which could moderate some of the volatility in advisory revenues. In addition, we report the value of our investments at market valuations or estimated fair value at the end of each quarter. The value of our investments may increase or decrease significantly depending upon market factors that are beyond our control. As a result, it may be difficult for us to achieve consistent results and steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis, which could adversely affect our stock price.In many cases, we are not paid for advisory engagements that do not result in the successful consummation of a transaction or restructuring or closing of a fund. As a result, our business is highly dependent on market conditions and the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties. For example, a client could delay or terminate a transaction because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or shareholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, or adverse market conditions. Anticipated bidders for assets of a client during a restructuring transaction may not materialize or our client may not be able to restructure its operations or indebtedness due to a failure to reach agreement with its principal creditors. Our clients may not raise sufficient capital to start a new fund because anticipated investors may decline to invest in such fund due to lack of liquidity, change in strategic direction of the investor, or other factors. In these circumstances, we may receive limited or no advisory fees, other than the reimbursement of certain out-of-pocket expenses. The failure of the parties to complete a transaction on which we are advising, and the consequent loss of revenue to us, could lead to large adverse movements in our stock price.Realized and unrealized investment gains from our investments in Iridium and merchant banking funds vary from period to period; these gains may not recur and may not be replaced by other gains; our investments may lose money; our investment proceeds will decline as we monetize our holdingsWe retain certain principal investments in Iridium and merchant banking funds (which in turn have a limited number of investments in portfolio companies). The fair value of these investments may appreciate (or depreciate) at different rates based on a variety of factors. Historically, gains (or losses) from our investments have been significantly impacted by market factors, specific industry conditions and other factors beyond our control, and we cannot predict the timing or size of any such gains (or losses) in future periods. The lack of investment gains (and any losses which may be attributable to the investments in Iridium and the merchant banking funds) and the volatility of changes in investment values may adversely affect our results of operations and our stock price. There were no gains (or losses) from any single investment that accounted for more than 10% of total revenues in 2012 or 2011.Our investment in Iridium was valued at $34.2 million at December 31, 2012. Since Iridium became a publicly traded company in 2009, its share price has ranged from a high of $11.55 to a low of $5.52. Iridium’s share price was $6.72 at December 31, 2012. A significant decline in the market value of Iridium can give rise to significant losses and adversely affect our revenue and earnings.In October 2011, we entered into a plan to sell our Iridium shares over a period of two or more years. These shares will be sold regardless of the market price and the amounts realized from these sales may vary. As of December 31, 2012, we have sold 48% of our holdings, for proceeds of $36.3 million, since we initiated our plan of sale. Based upon our current plan of sale, our investment in Iridium will be fully monetized in the first half of 2014.Since June 2011, we have generated net proceeds of $61.1 million from the sale of certain of our investments in our merchant banking funds, which included the sale of our entire investments in GCP Europe, GSAVP and a majority of our investment in GCP II. At December 31, 2012, our investments in merchant banking funds had an estimated fair value of $16.8 million. As a result of our sales of a large portion of our investments in merchant banking funds, we believe a significant portion of the value of our investment holdings has already been realized and we expect future realizations will decline in amount.We value our investment portfolio each quarter using a fair value methodology, which could result in gains or losses to the Firm; the fair value methodology may over- or under-state the ultimate value we will realizeAs of December 31, 2012, the value of the Firm’s portfolio of investments, including its investments in merchant banking funds and Iridium, was $51.0 million. Our investment in Iridium’s common stock is recorded at its publicly traded market value. Our investments in the merchant banking funds are recorded at estimated fair value, which is determined on a quarterly basis after giving consideration to the cost of the security, the pricing of other sales of securities by the portfolio company, the price of securities of other companies comparable to the portfolio company, purchase multiples paid in other comparable third party transactions, the original purchase price multiple, market conditions, liquidity, operating results and other quantitative and qualitative factors, and in the case of publicly traded securities, the closing price of the security on the last day of the relevant period discounted for any legal or contractual restrictions on sale. Significant changes in the public equity markets and/or the operating results of the portfolio companies of the merchant banking funds and Iridium may have a material effect on the fair value of our principal investments and therefore on our revenues and profitability during any reporting period. At December 31, 2012, approximately 58% of our investments in merchant banking funds consisted of interests in two portfolio companies operating 11Table of Contentsfor-profit secondary education schools. The concentration of investments in a single industry subjects the merchant banking portfolio to greater volatility, which could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. The estimated fair value at which the principal investments are carried on our books may vary significantly from period to period depending on a number of factors beyond our control. It may not be possible to sell these investments at the estimated fair values attributed to them in our financial statements.A significant deterioration in the credit markets or the failure of one or more banking institutions could adversely affect our liquidityAs of December 31, 2012, we had cash and cash equivalents of $50.3 million. We have invested these assets in instruments which we believe are highly liquid, and monitor developments relating to the liquidity of these investments on a regular basis. In the event of a significant deterioration of the credit markets or the failure of one or more banking institutions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to liquidate these assets or access our cash. Our inability to access our cash investments could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and result in a charge to our earnings which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock.We have a $45.0 million revolving loan facility from a U.S. commercial bank which currently expires on April 30, 2013. At December 31, 2012 we had $29.1 million drawn down from this facility. We utilize the revolving loan facility primarily to provide for our domestic cash needs, which include dividend payments, share repurchases, and working capital needs.Historically, we have rolled over the maturity date of our revolving loan facility annually. Our inability to extend the maturity date of the loan or renew the facility on acceptable terms with the existing lender could require us to repay all or a portion of the loan balance outstanding at maturity. There is no assurance, if our credit facility is not renewed with the current lender, that we would be able to obtain a new credit facility of a similar size and on similar terms from a different lender. In order to repay the outstanding balance of our credit facility, we could be required to repatriate funds to the U.S., liquidate some of our principal investments or issue debt or equity securities in the public or private markets, in each case on terms which may not be favorable to us. Our inability to refinance the loan facility could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and result in our inability to meet our obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.Our investment portfolio contains investments in high-risk, illiquid assetsWe had investments of $16.8 million in merchant banking funds at December 31, 2012. Merchant banking funds typically invest in securities of a class that are not publicly-traded and in many cases may be prohibited by contract or by applicable securities laws from selling such securities for a period of time or otherwise be restricted from disposing of such securities. The ability of such funds to dispose of investments is heavily dependent on the merger and acquisition environment and the initial public offering market, which fluctuate in terms of both the volume of transactions as well as the types of companies which are able to access the market. Furthermore, the types of investments made may require a substantial length of time to liquidate. We may not be able to sell our investments in merchant banking funds or control the disposition of securities in those funds.Our investments are reported at estimated fair value at the end of each quarter and our allocable share of realized and unrealized gains or losses will affect our revenue, which could increase the volatility of our quarterly earnings. It generally takes a substantial period of time to realize the cash value of our principal investments. Even if an investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash from such investment.Strategic investments, acquisitions and joint ventures, or foreign expansion may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our businessWe intend to grow our core business through both recruiting and internal expansion and through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures. In the event we make strategic investments or acquisitions, such as our acquisition of Caliburn, or enter into joint ventures, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls. In the case of joint ventures, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact our business.To the extent that we pursue business opportunities outside the United States, we will be subject to political, economic, legal, operational, regulatory and other risks that are inherent in operating in a foreign country, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, licensing requirements and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult and costly for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. 12Table of ContentsOur inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular foreign market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. If we expand to new geographic locations we will incur additional compensation, occupancy, integration and business development costs. Additionally, it may take more than one year for us to determine whether new managing directors will be profitable or effective, during which time we may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources on training, integration and business development. Depending upon the extent of our expansion, and whether it is done by recruiting new managing directors, strategic investment, acquisition or joint venture, the incremental costs of our expansion may be funded from cash from operations or other financing alternatives. There can be no assurance that the Firm will be able to generate or obtain sufficient capital on acceptable terms to fund its expansion needs which would limit the future growth of the business and adversely affect our share price.Greenhill’s employees own a significant portion of the common stock of the Firm and their interests may differ from those of our public shareholdersOur employees and their affiliated entities collectively owned approximately 10% of the total shares of common stock outstanding as of February 15, 2013. Assuming the restricted stock units issued to our employees were fully vested as of February 15, 2013, and including the performance shares and restricted stock awards earned by our Australian employees for achieving the revenue target for the first tranche of their performance awards, our employees and their affiliates would have owned approximately 22% of our shares of common stock.As a result of these shareholdings, our employees currently are able to exercise significant influence over the election of our entire board of directors, the management and policies of Greenhill and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of Greenhill, and the declaration and payment of dividends. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our managing directors and other employees, or the possibility of such sales, may adversely affect the price of the common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. There are no restrictions on the sale of the shares held by our employees other than prohibitions on sales during “black-out” periods imposed by us between earnings releases.A significant portion of the compensation of our managing directors is paid in restricted stock units and the shares we expect to issue on the vesting of those restricted stock units could result in a significant increase in the number of shares of common stock outstandingWe award restricted stock units, as part of annual bonus and incentive compensation, to managing directors and other employees. We also award restricted stock units as a long term incentive to new hires at the time they join the Firm. At February 15, 2013, 3,786,259, restricted stock units were outstanding, including 1,011,665 restricted stock units granted to employees in January 2013 as part of the long-term incentive award component of our annual compensation package. Each restricted stock unit represents the holder’s right to receive one share of our common stock or a cash payment equal to the fair value thereof, at our election, following the applicable vesting date. Awards of restricted stock units to our managing directors and other employees generally vest either ratably over a five year period, with the first vesting on the first anniversary of the grant date, or do not vest until the fifth anniversary of their grant date, when they vest in full, subject to continued employment on the vesting date. Awards of restricted stock to our more junior professionals generally vest ratably over a three to four year period. Shares will be issued in respect of restricted stock units only under the circumstances specified in the applicable award agreements and the equity incentive plan, and may be forfeited in certain cases. Assuming all of the conditions to vesting are fulfilled, shares in respect of the restricted stock units that were outstanding as of February 15, 2013 would be issued as follows: 222,097 additional shares in 2013, 1,124,272 shares in 2014, 811,693 shares in 2015, 639,193 shares in 2016, 653,086 shares in 2017, and 335,918 shares in 2018. In addition, in connection with the acquisition of Caliburn we issued 1,099,877 shares of convertible preferred stock of which 659,926 shares will be converted into common stock in April 2013, and the remaining 439,951 shares may be converted into common stock in April 2015, subject to the achievement of the second revenue performance target. Further, in connection with the acquisition of Caliburn, we awarded an additional 41,794 restricted stock units (not included above) which may vest in April 2015, subject to the achievement of a revenue performance target. Upon delivery of the restricted stock unit at the time they vest, we have historically repurchased from 36% to 43% of the awards for the payment of income tax withholding due upon settlement of the awards. Further, we have historically repurchased in the open market and through privately negotiated transactions a significant number of our shares of common stock. If we were to cease to or were unable to repurchase shares of common stock, the number of shares outstanding would increase over time, diluting the ownership of our existing stockholders.Employee misconduct could harm Greenhill and is difficult to detect and deter13Table of ContentsThere have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud, insider trading or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur at our Firm. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. Our advisory business often requires that we deal with highly confidential client information, the improper use of which may have a material adverse impact on our clients. Any breach of our clients’ confidences as a result of employee misconduct may impair our ability to attract and retain advisory clients. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases.In recent years, the U.S. Department of Justice and the SEC have devoted greater resources to the enforcement of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In addition, the United Kingdom has recently significantly expanded the reach of its anti-bribery laws. While we have developed and implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure strict compliance with the U.S. and U.K. anti-bribery laws, such policies and procedures may not be effective in all instances to prevent violations. Any determination that we have violated these laws (or similar laws of other jurisdictions in which we do business) could subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, profit disgorgement, injunction on future conduct, securities litigation and reputational damage, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects, financial position or the market value of our common stock.We may face damage to our professional reputation and legal liability to our clients and affected third parties if our services are not regarded as satisfactory or if conflicts of interests should ariseAs an investment banking firm, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, it may be more damaging in our business than in other businesses. Moreover, our role as advisor to our clients on important mergers and acquisitions or restructuring transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering “fairness opinions” in connection with mergers and other transactions. Our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties, including shareholders of our clients who could bring actions against us. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial intermediaries have been increasing. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time.In addition, our clients are often concerned about conflicts of interest that may arise in the course of engagements. While we have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to reduce the risks associated with the execution of transactions, the rendering of fairness opinions and potential conflicts of interest, these policies may not be adhered to by our employees or be effective in reducing these risks. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. We are unable to estimate the amount of monetary damages which could be assessed or reputational harm that could occur as a result of regulatory sanction or client litigation.Our engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be enforceable in all cases. As a result, we may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business prospects. We depend to a large extent on our business relationships and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, allegations of improper conduct by private litigants or regulators, whether the ultimate outcome is favorable or unfavorable to us, as well as negative publicity and press speculation about us, whether or not valid, may harm our reputation, which may be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses.We are subject to extensive regulation in the financial services industryBecause we operate in the financial services industry, we are subject to extensive regulation in the United States, Europe, Australia, Asia and elsewhere. In addition, as we expand our international operations by opening new offices outside the United States or by carrying out transactions or private placement activities internationally, we are increasingly subject to these types of regulations outside the United States. Regulatory and self-regulatory agencies as well as securities commissions in various jurisdictions in which we do business are empowered to conduct periodic examinations and administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, issuance of “cease and desist” orders or suspension of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our license or registration or the registration of any of our regulated subsidiaries. In addition, as a result of recent highly publicized scandals in the financial services industry, scrutiny by regulators of financial services firms has increased significantly. Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing clients or fail to gain new clients.Change in applicable law and regulatory schemes could adversely affect our business14Table of ContentsFrom time to time, the United States and other national governments in the countries in which we operate and related regulatory authorities, as well as local governments, may adopt new rules which affect our business. In the United States, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act was adopted in 2010, bringing sweeping changes in the regulations of financial institutions. It will take several years for the rules under the Dodd-Frank Act to be written and become effective, and the final scope and interpretations of those rules, and their impact on our business, will not be fully known for some time, but could well have adverse implications for the manner in which we conduct our business and, consequently, its profitability.In addition, several states and municipalities in the United States, such as California, Illinois, New York State, and New York City have recently adopted “pay-to-play” and placement agent rules which, in addition to imposing registration and reporting requirements, limit our ability to charge fees in connection with certain of our private capital advisory engagements or restrict or prohibit the use of placement agents in connection with investments by public pension funds. These types of measures could materially and adversely impact our capital advisory business. Beginning in 2007 and continuing through 2012, the U.S. and global financial markets experienced extraordinary disruption and volatility. As a result, the U.S. and other governments have taken actions, and may continue to take further actions, in response to this disruption and volatility, including expanding current or enacting new standards, requirements and rules that may be applicable to us and our subsidiaries. The effect of any such expanded or new standards, requirements and rules is uncertain and could have adverse consequences to our business and results of operations. Many of the requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us and are not designed to protect our stockholders. Consequently, these regulations may serve to limit our activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements.Compliance with any new laws or regulations could also make compliance more difficult and expensive, affect the manner in which we conduct our business and adversely affect our profitability.Legal restrictions on our clients may reduce the demand for our servicesNew laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may also adversely affect our businesses. For example, changes in antitrust enforcement could affect the level of mergers and acquisitions activity and changes in regulation could restrict the activities of our clients and their need for the types of advisory services that we provide to them.The cost of compliance with international employment, labor, benefits and tax regulations may adversely affect our business and hamper our ability to expand internationallySince we operate our business both in the United States and internationally, we are subject to many distinct employment, labor, benefits and tax laws in each state and country in which we operate, including regulations affecting our employment practices and our relations with our employees and service providers. If the existing regulations under which we operate are modified or interpreted differently or new regulations are issued and we are unable to comply with these regulations or interpretations, our business could be adversely affected or the cost of compliance may make it difficult to expand into new international markets. Additionally, our competitiveness in international markets may be adversely affected by regulations requiring, among other things, the awarding of contracts to local contractors, the employment of local citizens and/or the purchase of services from local businesses or that favor or require local ownership.A change in relevant income tax laws, regulations, or treaties or an adverse interpretation of these items by tax authorities could result in an audit adjustment or revaluation of our deferred tax assets that may cause our effective tax rate and tax liability to be higher than what is currently presented in the consolidated financial statementsOur effective tax rate and tax liability is based on the application of current income tax laws, regulations, and treaties. These laws, regulations, and treaties are complex, and the manner which they apply to our facts and circumstances is sometimes open to interpretation. Management believes its application of current laws, regulations, and treaties to be correct and sustainable upon examination by the tax authorities. However, the tax authorities could challenge our interpretation resulting in an additional tax liability or adjustment to our income tax provision that could increase our effective tax rate. In addition, tax laws, regulations, or treaties enacted in the future may cause us to revalue our deferred tax assets and have a material change to our effective tax rate. The potential requirement to convert our financial statements from being prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America to International Financial Reporting Standards may strain our resources and increase our annual expenses15Table of ContentsAs a public entity, the SEC may require in the future that we report our financial results under International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) instead of under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”). IFRS is a set of accounting principles that has been gaining acceptance on a worldwide basis. These standards are published by the London-based International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) and are more focused on objectives and principles and less reliant on detailed rules than U.S. GAAP. U.S. GAAP provides specific guidance in classes of accounting transactions for which equivalent guidance in IFRS does not exist. The adoption of IFRS is highly complex and would have an impact on many aspects of our operations, including but not limited to financial accounting and reporting systems, internal controls, taxes, borrowing covenants and cash management. It is expected that a significant amount of time, internal and external resources and expenses over a multi-year period would be required for this conversion.Operational risks may disrupt our businesses, result in losses or limit our growthWe rely heavily on our financial, accounting and other data processing systems. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. In addition, we operate in businesses that are highly dependent on information systems and technology. Our information systems and technology may not continue to be able to accommodate our growth, and the cost of maintaining such systems may increase from its current level. Such a failure to accommodate growth, or an increase in costs related to such information systems, could have a material adverse effect on us.Furthermore, we depend on our headquarters in New York City, where a large number of our personnel are located, for the continued operation of our business. A disaster or a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses, including a disruption involving electronic communications or other services used by us or third parties with whom we conduct business, or directly affecting our headquarters, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption. Our disaster recovery programs may not be sufficient to mitigate the harm that may result from such a disaster or disruption. In addition, insurance and other safeguards might only partially reimburse us for our losses, if at all.We have experienced rapid growth over the past several years, which may be difficult to sustain and which may place significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resourcesOur future growth will depend, among other things, on our ability to successfully identify practice groups and individuals to join our Firm. It may take more than one year for us to determine whether new professionals will be effective. During that time, we may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources toward training, integration and business development. If we are unable to hire and retain successful professionals, we will not be able to implement our growth strategy and our financial results may be materially adversely affected.Sustaining growth will also require us to commit additional management, operational, and financial resources to this growth and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to maintain or accelerate our growth and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses.Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operationsBecause our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and we receive a portion of our revenue in other currencies, predominantly in British pounds, euros, and Australian dollars, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies. In addition, we pay certain of our expenses in such currencies. We have not entered into any transactions to hedge our exposure to these foreign exchange fluctuations through the use of derivative instruments or otherwise. An appreciation or depreciation of any of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could result in an adverse or beneficial impact to our financial results.The market price of our common stock may declineThe price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including the perceived prospects of Greenhill and the financial services industry in general, differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors, the performance of our investments in merchant banking funds and Iridium, changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. Since a significant portion of the compensation of our managing directors and certain other employees is paid in restricted stock units, a decline in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, including our managing directors. Similarly, our ability to recruit new managing directors may be adversely affected by a decline in the price of our stock.We could change our existing dividend policy in the futureWe began paying quarterly cash dividends to holders of record of our common stock in June 2004. Since 2007 we have paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.45 per share of our common stock to holders of record. We intend to continue to pay quarterly 16Table of Contentsdividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. Future declaration and payment of dividends on our common stock is at the discretion of our board of directors and depend upon, among other things, our future operations and earnings, capital requirements and surplus, general financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors as the board of directors may deem relevant. For example, in the event that there is deterioration in our financial performance and/or our liquidity position, a downturn in global economic conditions or disruptions in the credit markets and our ability to obtain financing, our board of directors could decide to reduce or even suspend dividend payments in the future. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. A reduction in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price.Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking StatementsWe have made statements under the captions “Business”, “Risk Factors”, and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “may”, “might”, “will”, “should”, “expect”, “plan”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “estimate”, “intend”, “predict”, “potential” or “continue”, the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance, based on our growth strategies and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from the results, level of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In particular, you should consider the numerous risks outlined under “Risk Factors”.These risks are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K may include additional factors which could adversely impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for our management to predict all risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We are under no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this filing to conform our prior statements to actual results or revised expectations whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: •the statement that we intend to continue the process to liquidate our historical principal investments in the merchant banking funds and Iridium in “Business – Overview”;•the statement that we expect the financial services industry to remain intensely competitive in “Business – Competition”;•the statement that our ability to continue to compete effectively in our business will depend upon our ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees in “Business – Competition”;•the statement that we expect future realizations of our investment holdings will decline in amount in “Risk Factors – Realized and unrealized investment gains from our investments in Iridium and merchant banking funds vary from period to period; these gains may not recur and may not be replaced by other gains; our investments may lose money; our investment proceeds will decline as we monetize our holdings”;•the statement that we expect that our advisory engagements will continue to be limited to a relatively small number of clients and that an even smaller number of those clients will account for a high percentage of revenues in any particular year in “Risk Factors – A high percentage of our advisory revenues are derived from a few clients and the termination of any one advisory engagement could reduce our revenues and harm our operating results”;•the statement that we intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends in “Risk Factors – We could change our existing dividend policy in the future”;•the statements that we intend to continue our efforts to recruit new managing directors with industry sector experience and to increase our geographic reach in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview”;17Table of Contents•the statement that we intend to use future net proceeds from the sale of our investments in Iridium and any further sales or distributions from merchant banking funds to repurchase our common stock in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview”;•the statement that our advisory business has been negatively impacted and may be further impacted by a reduction in merger and acquisition and capital raising activity in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Business Environment”;•the statements that we believe that our simple business model as an independent, unconflicted adviser will create opportunities for us to attract new clients and provide us with excellent recruiting opportunities to further expand our industry expertise and geographic reach in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Business Environment”;•the statement that as transaction activity rebounds, we will seek to return towards our historic cost ratios, and as a result, we will seek to achieve our historic profitability ratios in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Business Environment”;•the statement that we expect our sales under Iridium’s trading plan to last approximately two years in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investment and Merchant Banking Revenues”;•the statement that unless there are significant gains in the value of the portfolio companies in GCP Europe, GCP II and GSAVP it is not likely that the profit threshold for each fund will be exceeded and accordingly is not likely that profit override revenue will be recognized in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investment and Merchant Banking Revenues”;•the statement that based upon our current headcount we expect that our fixed compensation costs for 2013 will be comparable to 2012 in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Compensation and Benefits Expenses”;•the statement about our objective to return towards our stated policy of a ratio of compensation to revenue not to exceed 50% in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Compensation and Benefits Expenses”;•the statement that we do not expect any immediate increases in our non-compensation expenses and over the longer term any increases in our non-compensation expenses will be dependent mostly on our geographic expansion to new locations and to a much lesser extent on our increase in headcount within our existing locations in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Non-Compensation Costs Expenses”;•the statement that we expect to pay approximately $15.8 million in 2013 related to income taxes owed in the United States and Australia for the year ended December 31, 2012 in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”;•the statement that we expect to continue to be compliant with all loan covenants in future periods in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”;•the statement that it is unlikely that we will have future needs that require us to permanently reinvest our foreign earnings in the local jurisdictions in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”;•the statement that we would expect to incur a minimal amount, if any, of incremental U.S. tax from any repatriations of foreign earnings in the near future in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”;•the statement that the shares held by our European affiliate are expected be sold beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013 in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”;•the statement that we expect to fund future repurchases of common shares (if any) with proceeds from our investments and/or operating cash flow in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”;18Table of Contents•the statement that we expect to fund repurchases of common stock from our employees in conjunction with the cash settlement of tax liabilities incurred on vesting of restricted stock units of approximately $86.7 million over the next five years in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”;•the statement that while we believe that the cash generated from operations, proceeds from the sale of Iridium and funds available from the revolving bank loan facility will be sufficient to meet our expected operating needs, tax obligations, common dividend payments, share repurchases, commitments to the merchant banking activities, and build-out costs of new office space, we may adjust our variable expenses and non-recurring disbursements, if necessary, to meet our liquidity needs in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”;•the statement that in the event that we are not able to meet our liquidity needs, we may consider a range of financing alternatives to meet any such need in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”;•the statement that management believes that the Firm is not exposed to significant credit risk due to the financial position of the depository institutions in which our deposits are held in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Market Risk”; and•the statement that we may hedge our foreign currency exposure if we expect we will need to fund U.S. dollar obligations with foreign currency in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Market Risk”.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsThere are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of the year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act.