Item 1A. Risk Factors We are currently party to 22 collective bargaining agreements with several unions, which expire at various times. Ten of these collective bargaining agreements, covering a total of approximately 797 employees as of December 31, 2006, are due to expire in 2007. Historically, we have succeeded in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements without work stoppages; however, no assurances can be given that we will succeed in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements to replace the expiring ones without work stoppages. Any work stoppage in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The split-off of our directory publishing business and related transactions are subject to certain conditions to closing that could result in the transactions being delayed or not completed, which could negatively impact our future business and operations. Failure to complete the split-off of our directory publishing business to affiliates of Welsh Carson could negatively affect our future business and operations. The transactions are subject to customary conditions to closing. If any of the conditions to the transactions are not satisfied or, if waiver is permissible, not waived, the transactions will not be completed. If the split-off and related transactions are not completed for any reason, we will not recognize the anticipated benefits of the transactions, such as the retirement of a portion of our outstanding debt under our senior secured credit facilities and the repurchase of our common stock from Welsh Carson. In addition, we must pay our own expenses related to the transactions, including substantial legal, audit and financial advisory fees, even if the transaction is not completed, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Further, if the transaction with Welsh Carson is unsuccessful and our board of directors determines to seek another transaction, it may not be able to find a partner willing to pay an equivalent or more attractive price than that which would have been paid in the transaction with Welsh Carson. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments No reportable information under this item. 