Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur ability to retain our senior managing directors is critical to the success of our businessThe success of our business depends upon the personal reputation, judgment, integrity, business generation capabilities and project execution skills of our managing directors and senior advisors, particularly our senior managing directors. Our managing directors’ personal reputations and relationships with our clients are a critical element in obtaining and maintaining client engagements. Accordingly, the retention of our managing directors, who are not obligated to remain employed with us, is particularly crucial to our future success. Managing directors have left Greenhill in the past and others may do so in the future, and we cannot predict the impact that the departure of any managing director will have on our business. The departure or other loss of Mr. Greenhill, our founder and Chairman, Scott L. Bok, our Chief Executive Officer, the regional heads of businesses in North America, Europe, Australia, Japan or Brazil, the industry sector heads, or the departure or other loss of other senior managing directors, each of whom manages substantial client relationships and possesses substantial experience and expertise, could materially adversely affect our ability to secure and successfully complete engagements, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations.In addition, if any of our managing directors were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. Although we have entered into non-competition agreements with each of our managing directors, there is no guarantee that these agreements are sufficiently broad or effective to prevent our managing directors from resigning to join our competitors or that the non-competition agreements would be upheld if we were to seek to enforce our rights under these agreements.8Almost all of our revenues are derived from advisory fees We are entirely focused on the financial advisory business and we earn substantially all of our revenues from advisory fees paid to us by each of our clients, in large part upon the successful completion of the client's transaction, restructuring or capital raising. Unlike diversified investment banks, which generate revenues from securities trading and underwriting, or other advisory firms, which have asset management businesses, and as a result of our monetization of substantially all of our investments, our generation of revenues from sources other than advisory fees is minimal. As a result, a decline in our advisory engagements, the number and scale of successfully completed client transactions or the market for advisory services generally would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our engagements are singular in nature and do not provide for subsequent engagementsWe operate in a highly-competitive environment where our clients generally retain us on a non-exclusive, short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific transactions or projects, rather than under long-term contracts covering potential additional future services. As these transactions and projects are singular in nature and subject to intense competition, we must seek out new engagements when our current engagements are successfully completed or are terminated. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in the next-succeeding period or any other period. In addition, we generally derive most of our engagement revenues at key transaction milestones, such as announcement or closing, and the timing of these milestones is outside our control. In cases where an engagement is terminated prior to the successful completion of a transaction or project, whether due to market reasons or otherwise, we may earn limited or no fees and may not be able to recoup the costs we incurred prior to the termination. A high percentage of our advisory revenues is derived from a small number of clients and the termination of any one advisory engagement could reduce our revenues and harm our operating resultsEach year, we advise a limited number of clients. Our top ten client engagements accounted for 43% of our total revenues in 2013 and 36% of our total revenues in 2012. We had one client engagement that accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues in 2013 and none in 2012. We earned $1 million or more from 58 clients in 2013, compared to 66 in 2012, of which 26% of the clients were new to the Firm in 2013 and 32% in 2012. While the composition of the group comprising our largest clients varies significantly from year to year, we expect that our advisory engagements will continue to be limited to a relatively small number of clients, compared to some of our larger competitors, and that an even smaller number of those clients will account for a high percentage of revenues in any particular year. As a result, the adverse impact on our results of operation from lost engagements or the non-completion of transactions or restructurings or fund raisings on which we are advising can be significant.We generate a significant portion of our revenues from our services in connection with mergers and acquisitions and we have not historically been able to fully offset a decline in revenues from merger and acquisition services with revenues from our financing advisory and restructuring services The vast majority of our bankers are focused on covering clients in the context of providing merger and acquisition advisory services and those activities generate a significant portion of our revenues. During a period when mergers and acquisitions activity declines and debt defaults increase, we increasingly rely on financing advisory and restructuring and bankruptcy services as a source of new business. We provide various restructuring and restructuring-related advice to companies in financial distress or their creditors or other stakeholders. A number of factors affect demand for these advisory services, including general economic conditions and the availability and cost of debt and equity financing. Because our financing advisory and restructuring business is intentionally smaller than our mergers and acquisitions advisory business, it is unlikely that we will be able to offset declines in mergers and acquisitions revenue with revenue generated from financing advisory and restructuring assignments and expect that it will remain that way for the foreseeable future. Fees earned in connection with advisory assignments in the bankruptcy context may be subject to challenge and reductionIn our financing advisory and restructuring business we, from time to time, advise debtors or creditors of companies which are involved in bankruptcy proceedings in the United States Bankruptcy Courts. Under the applicable rules of those courts, our fees are subject to approval by the court and other interested parties have the ability to challenge the payment of those fees. Fees earned and reflected in our revenues may from time to time be subject to successful challenges, which could result in a reduction of revenues and affect our stock price adversely.9Our business may be adversely affected by difficult market conditions and a decline in transaction activity Adverse market or economic conditions would likely affect the number, size and timing of transactions on which we provide advice and therefore adversely affect our advisory fees. Furthermore, as demonstrated over the past year, rapid increases in equity valuations and market volatility can negatively impact merger and acquisition activity. Our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on access to the credit and/or equity markets to finance their transactions. The uncertainty of available credit and the volatility of equity markets can adversely affect the size, volume, timing and ability of our clients to successfully complete merger and acquisition transactions and adversely affect our advisory business. Furthermore, market volatility also affects our clients’ ability and willingness to engage in stock-for-stock transactions.While we operate in North America, Europe, Australia, Asia and Brazil, our operations in the United States and Europe have historically provided most of our revenues and earnings. Consequently, our revenues and profitability are particularly affected by market conditions in these locations. Our capital advisory business is dependent on the availability of private capital for deployment in illiquid asset classes such as private equity and real estate funds for clients we serveIn our capital advisory business we assist fund managers and sponsors in raising capital for new private funds. Our ability to find suitable engagements and earn fees in this business depends on the availability of private and public capital for investments in illiquid assets such as private equity and real estate funds. Following the onset of the financial crisis, there was a shortage of such capital, and far fewer new funds were raised than in the period preceding the crisis. More recently, while the absolute pool of commitments for alternative assets investments has increased, investors have increased their concentration of new capital commitments with large mega funds, which are generally perceived as lower risk platforms because of the breadth of investment professionals and assets under management. Because the mega funds have in house fundraising teams, they are typically not a potential source of business for us. As a result, we must seek opportunities to raise capital for other fund managers with successful track records and investment strategies that are attractive to the market. Due to the competition for capital with mega funds, the fund raising process may take longer to complete and there can be no certainty that our fund raising engagement will be completed successfully. To the extent private and public capital focused on illiquid investment opportunities for our clients remains limited, our ability to earn fees in the capital advisory business may be adversely affected. We face strong competition from far larger firms and other independent firms The investment banking industry is intensely competitive and we expect it to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our advice and service, innovation, reputation and price. We believe we may experience pricing pressures in our areas of operation in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. We are a relatively small investment bank, with 319 employees (including managing directors and senior advisors) as of December 31, 2013 and total revenues of $287.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. Most of our competitors in the investment banking industry have a far greater range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition, more managing directors to serve their clients' needs, greater global reach and broader relationships with their clients than we have. These larger and better capitalized competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the investment banking market, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share generally. Our integrated investment banking competitors and other large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms that have established or acquired financial advisory practices and broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage, hedging, foreign exchange, asset management and investment banking services, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services revenues in an effort to gain market share, which could result in pricing pressure in our businesses. In particular, the ability to provide financing as well as advisory services has become an important advantage for some of our larger competitors, and because we are unable to provide such financing, we may be unable to compete for advisory clients in a significant part of the advisory market. In addition to our larger competitors, over the last few years, a number of independent investment banks have emerged which offer independent advisory services and some of these firms are larger and have greater general and industry specific coverage resources than we do. Further, over the past few years there has been an increase in the number of newly formed independent advisory firms some of which provide industry specific advice. Since independent advisory firms require minimal capital to operate, there are few barriers to entry. As these independent firms seek to gain market share, our share of the advisory business could diminish and there could be pricing pressure, which would adversely affect our revenues and earnings. 10Strategic investments, acquisitions and joint ventures, or foreign expansion, may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our businessWe intend to grow our core business through both recruiting and internal expansion and through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures. In the event we make strategic investments or acquisitions, such as our acquisition of Greenhill Australia, or enter into joint ventures, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls. In the case of joint ventures, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact our business.To the extent that we pursue business opportunities outside the United States, including our recent expansion into Brazil, we will be subject to political, economic, legal, operational, regulatory and other risks that are inherent in operating in a foreign country, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, inflation controls, licensing requirements and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult and costly for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular foreign market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. If we expand to new geographic locations, such as our recent expansion into Brazil, we will incur additional compensation, occupancy, integration, legal and business development costs. Additionally, it may take more than one year for us to determine whether new managing directors will be profitable or effective, during which time we may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources on training, integration and business development. Depending upon the extent of our expansion, and whether it is done by recruiting new managing directors, strategic investment, acquisition or joint venture, the incremental costs of our expansion may be funded from cash from operations or other financing alternatives. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate or obtain sufficient capital on acceptable terms to fund our expansion needs which would limit the future growth of the business and adversely affect our share price.There will not be a consistent pattern in our financial results from quarter to quarter, which may result in volatility of our stock priceWe can experience significant variations in revenues and profits during each quarterly period. These variations can generally be attributed to the fact that our revenues are usually earned in large amounts throughout the year upon the successful completion of a transaction or restructuring, the timing of which is uncertain and is not subject to our control. Compared to our larger, more diversified competitors in the financial services industry, we generally experience even greater variations in our quarterly revenues and profits. This is due to our dependence on a relatively small number of transactions for a large percentage of our revenues in each quarterly reporting period, with the result that our earnings can be significantly affected by the size and number of transactions closed in any particular quarter.Furthermore, since substantially all of our revenues are generated from advisory fees, we lack other, more stable sources of revenue in material amounts, such as brokerage and asset management fees, which could moderate some of the volatility in advisory revenues. As a result, it may be difficult for us to achieve consistent results and steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis, which could adversely affect our stock price.In many cases, we are not paid for advisory engagements that do not result in the successful consummation of a transaction or restructuring or closing of a fund. As a result, our business is highly dependent on market conditions and the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties. For example, a client could delay or terminate a transaction because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or shareholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, or adverse market conditions. Anticipated bidders for assets of a client during a restructuring transaction may not materialize or our client may not be able to restructure its operations or indebtedness due to a failure to reach agreement with its principal creditors. Our clients may not raise sufficient capital to start a new fund because anticipated investors may decline to invest in such a fund due to lack of liquidity, change in strategic direction of the investor, or other factors. In these circumstances, we may receive limited or no advisory fees. The failure of the parties to complete a transaction on which we are advising, and the consequent loss of revenue to us, could lead to large adverse movements in our stock price.11A significant deterioration in the credit markets or the failure of one or more banking institutions could adversely affect our liquidity As of December 31, 2013, we had cash and cash equivalents of $42.7 million. We have invested these assets in instruments which we believe are highly liquid, and monitor developments relating to the liquidity of these investments on a regular basis. In the event of a significant deterioration of the credit markets or the failure of one or more banking institutions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to liquidate these assets or access our cash. Our inability to access our cash investments could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and result in a charge to our earnings which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock.We have a $45.0 million revolving loan facility from a U.S. commercial bank which currently expires on April 30, 2014. At December 31, 2013 we had $30.8 million drawn down from this facility. We utilize the revolving loan facility primarily to provide for our domestic cash needs, which include dividend payments, share repurchases, and working capital needs.Historically, we have rolled over the maturity date of our revolving loan facility annually. Our inability to extend the maturity date of the loan or renew the facility on acceptable terms with the existing lender could require us to repay all or a portion of the loan balance outstanding at maturity. There is no assurance, if our credit facility is not renewed with the current lender, that we would be able to obtain a new credit facility of a similar size and on similar terms from a different lender. In order to repay the outstanding balance of our credit facility, we could be required to repatriate funds to the U.S. or issue debt or equity securities in the public or private markets, in each case on terms which may not be favorable to us. Our inability to refinance the loan facility could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and result in our inability to meet our obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.Our employees own a significant portion of our common stock and their interests may differ from those of our public shareholdersOur employees and their affiliated entities collectively owned approximately 11% of the total shares of common stock outstanding as of February 21, 2014. Assuming the restricted stock units issued to our employees were fully vested as of February 21, 2014, our employees and their affiliates would have owned approximately 20% of our shares of common stock.As a result of these shareholdings, our employees currently are able to exercise significant influence over the election of our entire board of directors, the management and policies of Greenhill and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of Greenhill, and the declaration and payment of dividends. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our managing directors and other employees, or the possibility of such sales, may adversely affect the price of the common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. There are no restrictions on the sale of the shares held by our employees other than prohibitions on sales during “black-out” periods imposed by us between earnings releases.A significant portion of the compensation of our managing directors is paid in restricted stock units and the shares we expect to issue on the vesting of those restricted stock units could result in a significant increase in the number of shares of common stock outstandingWe award restricted stock units, as part of annual bonus and incentive compensation, to managing directors and other employees. We also award restricted stock units as a long term incentive to new hires at the time they join Greenhill. At February 21, 2014, 3,745,107, restricted stock units were outstanding, including 1,182,109 restricted stock units granted to employees in January 2014 as part of the long-term incentive award component of our annual compensation package. Each restricted stock unit represents the holder’s right to receive one share of our common stock or a cash payment equal to the fair value thereof, at our election, following the applicable vesting date. Awards of restricted stock units to our managing directors and other senior employees generally vest either ratably over a five year period, with the first vesting on the first anniversary of the grant date, or do not vest until the fifth anniversary of their grant date, when they vest in full, subject to continued employment on the vesting date. Awards of restricted stock to our more junior professionals generally vest ratably over a three to four year period. Shares will be issued in respect of restricted stock units only under the circumstances specified in the applicable award agreements and the equity incentive plan, and may be forfeited in certain cases. Assuming all of the conditions to vesting are fulfilled, shares in respect of the restricted stock units that were outstanding as of February 21, 2014 would be issued as follows: 200,523 additional shares in 2014, 972,074 shares in 2015, 817,652 shares in 2016, 850,984 shares in 2017, 576,721 shares in 2018, and 327,153 shares in 2019. In addition, in connection with the acquisition of Greenhill Australia, we issued 1,099,877 shares of convertible preferred stock of which 659,926 shares were converted into common stock in April 2013, and the remaining 439,951 shares may be converted into common stock in April 2015, subject to the achievement of the second revenue performance target. Further, in connection with the acquisition of Greenhill Australia, we awarded an additional 41,794 restricted stock units (not included above) which 12may vest in April 2015, subject to the achievement of a revenue performance target. Upon delivery of restricted stock units at the time they vest, we have historically repurchased from 31% to 43% of the awards for the payment of income tax withholding due upon settlement of the awards. Further, we have historically repurchased in the open market and through privately negotiated transactions a significant number of our shares of common stock. If we were to cease to or were unable to repurchase shares of common stock, the number of shares outstanding would increase over time, diluting the ownership of our existing stockholders.Employee misconduct could harm Greenhill and is difficult to detect and deterThere have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud, insider trading or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur at Greenhill. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. Our advisory business often requires that we deal with highly confidential client information, the improper use of which may have a material adverse impact on our clients. Any breach of our clients’ confidences as a result of employee misconduct may impair our ability to attract and retain advisory clients. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases.In recent years, the U.S. Department of Justice and the SEC have also devoted greater resources to the enforcement of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In addition, the United Kingdom has recently significantly expanded the reach of its anti-bribery laws. While we have developed and implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure strict compliance with anti-bribery and other laws, such policies and procedures may not be effective in all instances to prevent violations. Any determination that we have violated these laws (or similar laws of other jurisdictions in which we do business) could subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, profit disgorgement, injunction on future conduct, securities litigation and reputational damage, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects, financial position or the market value of our common stock.We may face damage to our professional reputation and legal liability to our clients and affected third parties if our services are not regarded as satisfactory or if conflicts of interests should ariseAs an investment banking firm, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, it may be more damaging in our business than in other businesses. Moreover, our role as advisor to our clients on important mergers and acquisitions or restructuring transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering “fairness opinions” in connection with mergers and other transactions. Our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties, including shareholders of our clients who could bring actions against us. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial intermediaries have been increasing. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time.In addition, our clients are often concerned about conflicts of interest that may arise in the course of engagements. While we have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to reduce the risks associated with the execution of transactions, the rendering of fairness opinions and potential conflicts of interest, these policies may not be adhered to by our employees or be effective in reducing these risks. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. We are unable to estimate the amount of monetary damages which could be assessed or reputational harm that could occur as a result of regulatory sanction or client litigation.Our engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be enforceable in all cases. As a result, we may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business prospects. We depend to a large extent on our business relationships and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, allegations of improper conduct by private litigants or regulators, whether the ultimate outcome is favorable or unfavorable to us, as well as negative publicity and press speculation about us, whether or not valid, may harm our reputation, which may be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses.13We are subject to extensive regulation in the financial services industryBecause we operate in the financial services industry, we are subject to extensive regulation in the United States, Europe, Australia and Asia. In addition, as we expand our international operations by opening new offices outside the United States or by carrying out transactions or private placement activities internationally, we are increasingly subject to new regulatory requirements. Regulatory and self-regulatory agencies as well as securities commissions in various jurisdictions in which we do business are empowered to conduct periodic examinations and administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, issuance of “cease and desist” orders or suspension of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our license or registration or the registration of any of our regulated subsidiaries. In addition, as a result of recent highly publicized scandals in the financial services industry, scrutiny by regulators of financial services firms has increased significantly. Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing clients or fail to gain new clients.Change in applicable law and regulatory schemes could adversely affect our businessFrom time to time, the United States and other national governments in the countries in which we operate and related regulatory authorities, as well as local governments, may adopt new rules which affect our business. Many of the requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us and are not designed to protect our stockholders. Consequently, these regulations may serve to limit our activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements. There can be no assurance that regulations will not be imposed which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operation.Recently, several states and municipalities in the United States, such as California, Illinois, New York State, and New York City have recently adopted “pay-to-play” and placement agent rules which, in addition to imposing registration and reporting requirements, limit our ability to charge fees in connection with certain of our private capital and real estate capital advisory engagements or restrict or prohibit the use of placement agents in connection with investments by public pension funds. These types of measures could materially and adversely impact our capital advisory business.Compliance with any new laws or regulations could also make compliance more difficult and expensive, affect the manner in which we conduct our business and adversely affect our profitability.Legal restrictions on our clients may reduce the demand for our servicesNew laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may also adversely affect our businesses. For example, changes in antitrust enforcement could affect the level of mergers and acquisitions activity and changes in regulation could restrict the activities of our clients and their need for the types of advisory services that we provide to them.The cost of compliance with international employment, labor, benefits and tax regulations may adversely affect our business and hamper our ability to expand internationallySince we operate our business both in the United States and internationally, we are subject to many distinct employment, labor, benefits and tax laws in each state and country in which we operate, including regulations affecting our employment practices and our relations with our employees and service providers. If the existing regulations under which we operate are modified or interpreted differently or new regulations are issued and we are unable to comply with these regulations or interpretations, our business could be adversely affected or the cost of compliance may make it difficult to expand into new international markets. Additionally, our competitiveness in international markets may be adversely affected by regulations requiring, among other things, the awarding of contracts to local contractors, the employment of local citizens, the purchase of services from local businesses, or requiring local ownership.A change in relevant income tax laws, regulations, or treaties or an adverse interpretation of these items by tax authorities could result in an audit adjustment or revaluation of our deferred tax assets that may cause our effective tax rate and tax liability to be higher than what is currently presented in the consolidated financial statementsOur effective tax rate and tax liability is based on the application of current income tax laws, regulations, and treaties. These laws, regulations, and treaties are complex, and the manner which they apply to our facts and circumstances is sometimes open to interpretation. Management believes its application of current laws, regulations, and treaties to be correct and sustainable upon examination by the tax authorities. However, the tax authorities could challenge our interpretation resulting in an additional tax liability or adjustment to our income tax provision that could increase our effective tax rate. In addition, tax laws, regulations, or treaties enacted in the future may cause us to revalue our deferred tax assets and have a material change to our effective tax rate. 14The potential requirement to convert our financial statements from being prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America to International Financial Reporting Standards may strain our resources and increase our annual expensesAs a public entity, the SEC may require in the future that we report our financial results under International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) instead of under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”). IFRS is a set of accounting principles that has been gaining acceptance on a worldwide basis. These standards are published by the London-based International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) and are more focused on objectives and principles and less reliant on detailed rules than U.S. GAAP. U.S. GAAP provides specific guidance in classes of accounting transactions for which equivalent guidance in IFRS does not exist. The adoption of IFRS is highly complex and would have an impact on many aspects of our operations, including but not limited to financial accounting and reporting systems, internal controls, taxes, borrowing covenants and cash management. It is expected that a significant amount of time, internal and external resources and expenses over a multi-year period would be required for this conversion.The value of our goodwill may decline in the future A significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, or slower growth rates, any or all of which could be materially impacted by many of the risk factors discussed herein, may require that we take charges in the future related to the impairment of goodwill. Future regulatory actions could also have a material impact on assessments of goodwill for impairment. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of our goodwill and other intangible assets is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Operational risks and heightened cyber-security risks may disrupt our businesses, result in losses or limit our growthWe rely heavily on our financial, accounting and other data processing and communications systems. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. In addition, we operate in businesses that are highly dependent on information systems and technology. Our information systems and technology may not continue to be able to accommodate our growth, and the cost of maintaining such systems may increase from its current level. Such a failure to accommodate growth, or an increase in costs related to such information systems, could have a material adverse effect on us. We may also be subject to cyber-attacks on our critical data and we may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks. We may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize these risks and could be held liable for any security breach or loss. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information and communication systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information or communication systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability.We depend on our headquarters in New York City, where a large number of our personnel are located, for the continued operation of our business. A disaster or a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses, including catastrophic events such as hurricanes or other larger scale catastrophes, a disruption involving electronic communications or other services used by us or third parties with whom we conduct business, or directly affecting our headquarters, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption. The incidence and severity of catastrophes and other disasters are inherently unpredictable. Our disaster recovery programs may not be sufficient to mitigate the harm that may result from such a disaster or disruption. Although we carry insurance to mitigate its exposure to certain catastrophic events, our insurance and other safeguards might only partially reimburse us for our losses, if at all.If we grow rapidly we may place significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources Our future growth will depend, among other things, on our ability to successfully identify practice groups and individuals to join Greenhill. It may take more than one year for us to determine whether new professionals will be effective. During that time, we may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources toward training, integration and business development. If we are unable to hire and retain successful professionals, we will not be able to implement our growth strategy and our financial results may be materially adversely affected.Sustaining growth will also require us to commit additional management, operational, and financial resources to this growth and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to maintain or accelerate our growth and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses.15Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operationsBecause our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and we receive a portion of our revenue in other currencies, predominantly in British pounds, euros, and Australian dollars, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies. In addition, we pay certain of our expenses in such currencies. We have not entered into any transactions to hedge our exposure to these foreign exchange fluctuations through the use of derivative instruments or otherwise. An appreciation or depreciation of any of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could result in an adverse or beneficial impact to our financial results.The market price of our common stock may decline The price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including the perceived prospects of Greenhill and the financial services industry in general, differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors, changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. Since a significant portion of the compensation of our managing directors and certain other employees is paid in restricted stock units and our employees rely upon the ability of share sales to generate additional cash flow, a decline in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, including our managing directors. Similarly, our ability to recruit new managing directors may be adversely affected by a decline in the price of our stock.We could change our existing dividend policy in the futureWe began paying quarterly cash dividends to holders of record of our common stock in June 2004. Since 2007, we have paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.45 per share of our common stock to holders of record. We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. Future declaration and payment of dividends on our common stock is at the discretion of our board of directors and depend upon, among other things, our future operations and earnings, capital requirements and surplus, general financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors as the board of directors may deem relevant. For example, in the event that there is deterioration in our financial performance and/or our liquidity position, a downturn in global economic conditions or disruptions in the credit markets and our ability to obtain financing, our board of directors could decide to reduce or even suspend dividend payments in the future. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. A reduction in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price.Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking StatementsWe have made statements under the captions “Business”, “Risk Factors”, and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “may”, “might”, “will”, “should”, “expect”, “plan”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “estimate”, “intend”, “predict”, “potential” or “continue”, the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance, based on our growth strategies and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from the results, level of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In particular, you should consider the numerous risks outlined under “Risk Factors”.These risks are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K may include additional factors which could adversely impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for our management to predict all risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We are under no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this filing to conform our prior statements to actual results or revised expectations whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.16Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: •the statement that as a result of the monetization of substantially all of our investments over the past three years, we do not expect to report significant investment revenues in future periods in "Business — Investment and Merchant Banking Revenues";•the statement that we expect the financial services industry to remain intensely competitive in “Business — Competition”;•the statement that our ability to continue to compete effectively in our business will depend upon our ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees in “Business — Competition”;•the statement that we expect that our advisory engagements will continue to be limited to a relatively small number of clients and that an even smaller number of those clients will account for a high percentage of revenues in any particular year in “Risk Factors — A high percentage of our advisory revenues are derived from a small number of clients and the termination of any one advisory engagement could reduce our revenues and harm our operating results”;•the statement that it is unlikely that we will be able to offset declines in mergers and acquisitions revenue with revenue generated from financing advisory and restructuring assignments and expect that it will remain that way for the foreseeable future in "Risk Factors — We generate a significant portion of our revenues from our services in connection with mergers and acquisitions and we have not historically been able to fully offset a decline in revenues from merger and acquisition services with revenues from our financing advisory and restructuring services";•the statement that we intend to grow our core business through both recruiting and internal expansion and through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures in "Risk Factors — Strategic investments, acquisitions and joint ventures, or foreign expansion, may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business";•the statement that we intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends in “Risk Factors — We could change our existing dividend policy in the future”;•the statements that we intend to continue our efforts to recruit new managing directors with industry sector experience and to recruit new managing directors to increase our geographic reach in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview”;•the statement that we continue to expect M&A activity over time to rebound toward its historic levels in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Business Environment”;•the statement that we believe we are still in the early stages of the process to continue to focus on increasing the breadth of our advisory activities by industry sector in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Business Environment”;•the statement that as transaction activity rebounds, we will seek to return towards the higher end of our historic pre-tax margin in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Business Environment”;•the statement that as a result of the monetization of substantially all of our investments over the past three years, we do not expect to report significant investment revenues in future periods in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investment and Merchant Banking Revenues”;•the statement that we expect that our fixed compensation costs for 2014 will be comparable to 2013 and 2012 in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Compensation and Benefits Expenses”;•the statement about our objective to reduce our ratio of compensation to revenues over time to a ratio not to exceed 50% at a time when market activity and our revenue productivity improve in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Compensation and Benefits Expenses”;•the statement that we do not expect any material short term increases in our non-compensation expenses and over the longer term any increases in our non-compensation expenses will be dependent mostly on our geographic expansion to new locations, general inflation increases in rent and other costs we incur and to a much lesser extent on our increase in headcount within our existing locations in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Non-Compensation Costs Expenses”;17•the statement that we expect to pay approximately $15.3 million in 2014 principally related to income taxes owed in the United States and the United Kingdom for the year ended December 31, 2013 in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”;•the statement that we expect to renew the revolving loan facility this year although our ability to do so in the future is not certain in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”;•the statement that we expect to continue to be compliant with all loan covenants in future periods in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”;•the statement that it is unlikely that we will have future needs that require us to permanently reinvest our foreign earnings in the local jurisdictions in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”;•the statement that we would expect to incur a minimal amount, if any, of incremental U.S. tax from any repatriations of foreign earnings in the near future in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”;•the statement that we expect to fund repurchases of common stock from our employees in conjunction with the cash settlement of tax liabilities incurred on vesting of restricted stock units of approximately $77.1 million over the next five years in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”;•the statement that we intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”;•the statement that while we believe that the cash generated from operations and funds available from the revolving bank loan facility will be sufficient to meet our expected operating needs, tax obligations, common dividend payments, share repurchases and build-out costs of new office space, we may adjust our variable expenses and non-recurring disbursements, if necessary, to meet our liquidity needs in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”;•the statement that management believes that we are not exposed to significant credit risk due to the financial position of the depository institutions in which our deposits are held in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Market Risk”; and•the statement that we may hedge our foreign currency exposure if we expect we will need to fund U.S. dollar obligations with foreign currency in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Market Risk”.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsThere are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of the year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act.18