Item 1A. Risk Factors Our ability to retain our senior managing directors is critical to the success of our business The success of our business depends upon the personal reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and project execution skills of our managing directors and senior advisors, particularly our senior managing directors. Founded in 1996, our business has a more limited operating history than many of our competitors and, as a result, our managing directors’ personal reputations and relationships with our clients are a critical element in obtaining and maintaining client engagements, and forming and investing merchant banking funds. Accordingly, the retention of our managing directors is particularly crucial to our future success. The departure or other loss of Mr. Greenhill, our founder and Chairman, or the departure or other loss of other senior managing directors, each of whom manages substantial client relationships and possesses substantial experience and expertise, could materially adversely affect our ability to secure and successfully complete engagements and conduct our merchant banking business, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if any of our managing directors were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. There is no guarantee that the compensation arrangements, non-competition agreements and lock-up agreements we have entered into with our managing directors are sufficiently broad or effective to prevent our managing directors from resigning to join our competitors or that the non-competition agreements would be upheld if we were to seek to enforce our rights under these agreements. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from financial advisory fees We have historically earned a significant portion of our revenues from financial advisory fees paid to us by our clients, in large part upon the successful completion of the client’s transaction, restructuring or fund raising. Financial advisory revenues represented 98% and 92% of our total revenues in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Unlike diversified investment banks, we only have one other significant alternative source of revenue, and lack such other sources of revenue as securities trading or underwriting. We expect that our reliance on financial advisory fees will continue for the foreseeable future and a decline in our financial advisory engagements or the market for advisory services generally would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents Our business has been adversely affected by difficult market conditions and may continue to be adversely affected by market uncertainty, disruptions in the credit markets and other unfavorable economic, geopolitical or market conditions Adverse market and economic conditions in 2008 affected the number and size of transactions on which we provided mergers and acquisitions advice and therefore adversely affected our financial advisory fees. In 2008, worldwide completed M&A volume decreased by 32%, from $4,013 billion in 2007 to $2,735 billion in 2008(1). Our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on access to the credit markets to finance their transactions. The lack of available credit and the increased cost of credit can adversely affect the size, volume, timing and ability of our clients’ to successfully complete merger and acquisition transactions and adversely affect our financial advisory business. The continuing market volatility also affects our clients’ ability and willingness to engage in stock-for-stock transactions. Accordingly, we expect that the current lack of liquidity and general uncertainty about economic and market activities may continue to adversely impact our business. As of the end of 2008, the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia are all in economic recessions. As our operations in the United States and Europe historically have provided most of our revenues and earnings, our revenues and profitability are particularly affected by economic conditions in these locations. Adverse market or economic conditions, including continuing volatility in the commodities markets, limited access to credit as well as a slowdown of activity in the sectors in which the portfolio companies of our merchant banking funds operate could also adversely affect the business operations of those portfolio companies, and therefore, our earnings. In addition, during a market downturn, our merchant banking funds may find fewer opportunities to exit and realize value from their investments. In the event of a continued economic downturn, revenues from mergers and acquisitions advisory activities may decline further, and revenues from financing advisory and restructuring activities may not fully offset any such decline During a period when mergers and acquisitions activity declines and debt defaults increase, we increasingly rely on the provision of financing advisory and restructuring and bankruptcy services as a source of new business. We provide various restructuring and restructuring-related advice to companies in financial distress or their creditors or other stakeholders. A number of factors affect demand for these advisory services, including general economic conditions and the availability and cost of debt and equity financing. Presently, our financing advisory and restructuring business is significantly smaller than our mergers and acquisitions advisory business, and it is unlikely that we will be able to offset a decline in mergers and acquisitions revenue with revenue generated from financing advisory and restructuring assignments. The requirement of Section 327 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code requiring that one be a “disinterested person” to be employed in a restructuring was modified recently to allow a person not to be disqualified solely by virtue of its status as an underwriter of securities. The “disinterested person” definition of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, as previously in effect, disqualified certain of our competitors. The new definition could allow for more financial services firms to compete for restructuring engagements as well as with respect to the recruitment and retention of professionals. If our competitors succeed in being retained in new restructuring engagements, our financial restructuring practice, and thereby our results of operations, could be materially adversely affected. If demand for our financing advisory and restructuring services decreases, we could suffer a decline in revenues, which could lower our overall profitability materially. (1) Source: Thompson Financial as of January 19, 2009. 7 Table of Contents Our merger and acquisition and financing advisory and restructuring engagements are singular in nature and do not provide for subsequent engagements Our clients generally retain us on a non-exclusive, short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific merger or acquisition transactions or financing advisory and restructuring projects, rather than under long-term contracts covering potential additional future services. As these transactions are singular in nature and our engagements are not likely to recur, we must seek out new engagements when our current engagements are successfully completed or are terminated. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in the next-succeeding or any other period. In addition, when an engagement is terminated, whether due to the cancellation of a transaction due to market reasons or otherwise, we may earn limited or no fees and may not be able to recoup the costs that we incurred prior to that termination. A high percentage of our financial advisory revenues are derived from a few clients and the termination of any one financial advisory engagement could reduce our revenues and harm our operating results Each year, we advise a limited number of clients. Our top ten client engagements accounted for 54% of our total revenues in 2008 and 56% of our total revenues in 2007. Our single largest client engagement accounted for 10% and 12% of our total revenues in 2008 and 2007, respectively. While the composition of the group comprising our largest clients varies significantly from year to year, we expect that our financial advisory engagements will continue to be limited to a relatively small number of clients and that an even smaller number of those clients will account for a high percentage of revenues in any particular year. As a result, the adverse impact on our results of operation of one lost engagement or the failure of one transaction or restructuring on which we are advising to be completed can be significant. Investment gains from our merchant banking portfolio vary from period to period; these gains may not recur and may not be replaced by other gains; our investments may lose money We have a limited number of investments in our merchant banking portfolio. The fair value of these investments may appreciate (or depreciate) at different rates based on a variety of factors. There were no gains (or losses) from any single investment that accounted for more than 10% of total revenues recognized by the firm in 2008 or 2007. Historically, gains (or losses) from investments have been significantly impacted by market factors, specific industry conditions and other factors beyond our control, and we cannot predict the timing or size of any such gains (or losses) in future periods. The lack of investment gains (and any losses which may be attributable to the investments in our merchant banking portfolio) may adversely affect our stock price. There will not be a consistent pattern in our financial results from quarter to quarter, which may result in increased volatility of our stock price We can experience significant variations in revenues and profits during the year. These variations can generally be attributed to the fact that our revenues are usually earned in large amounts throughout the year upon the successful completion of a transaction or restructuring or closing of a fund, the timing of which is uncertain and is not subject to our control. Moreover, the timing of our realization of gains or the incurrence of valuation losses from our merchant banking portfolio may vary significantly from period to period and depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including most notably market and general economic conditions. Compared to our larger, more diversified competitors in the financial services industry, we generally experience even greater variations in our revenues and profits. This is due to our dependence on a relatively small number of transactions for most of our revenues, with the result that our earnings can be significantly affected if any particular transaction is not completed successfully, and to the fact that we lack other, more stable sources of revenue in material amounts, such as brokerage and asset 8 Table of Contents management fees, which could moderate some of the volatility in financial advisory revenues. In addition, our merchant banking investments are reported at estimated fair value at the end of each quarter. The value of our investments may increase or decrease significantly depending upon market factors that are beyond our control. As a result, it may be difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis, which could adversely affect our stock price. In addition, in many cases we are not paid for financial advisory engagements that do not result in the successful consummation of a transaction or restructuring or closing of a fund. As a result, our business is highly dependent on market conditions and the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties. For example, a client could delay or terminate a transaction because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or shareholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, or adverse market conditions. Anticipated bidders for assets of a client during a restructuring transaction may not materialize or our client may not be able to restructure its operations or indebtedness due to a failure to reach agreement with its principal creditors. In these circumstances, in many cases we do not receive any financial advisory fees, other than the reimbursement of certain out-of-pocket expenses. The failure of the parties to complete a transaction on which we are advising, and the consequent loss of revenue to us, could lead to large adverse movements in our stock price. We are continuing to expand our merchant banking business, which will entail increased levels of investments in high-risk, illiquid assets In 2007, we continued to expand our merchant banking business by establishing a new European merchant banking fund, GCP Europe, to which we committed £25.0 million. Subject to market conditions, we intend to form a new merchant banking fund prior to the expiration of the commitment period of GCP II in June 2010, to which we will likely make a substantial commitment. Our funds generally make investments in relatively high-risk, illiquid assets. Contributing capital to these funds is risky and we may lose some or all of the principal amount of our investments. Our revenues from this business are primarily derived from management fees calculated as a percentage of committed capital and/or assets under management, investment gains and profit overrides, which are earned if investments are profitable over a specified threshold. Our ability to form new merchant banking funds is subject to a number of uncertainties, including adverse market or economic conditions, competition from other fund managers, and the ability to negotiate terms with major investors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to form new merchant banking funds. We may occasionally make principal investments, such as our $8.0 million investment in GHLAC, a blank check company sponsored by the firm. GHLAC (AMEX: GHQ) completed its $400 million initial public offering in February 2008 and in September 2008 agreed to acquire Iridium Holdings, LLC , subject to stockholder approval, various regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. In October 2008, we completed our $22.9 million investment in Iridium Holdings, LLC, These investments may be in high-risk, illiquid assets, and we may be required to hold such investments for a long time. We may lose all of the money we commit to such investments. Given the nature of the investments of GCP, GSAVP and GCP Europe, there is a significant risk that our merchant banking funds will be unable to realize their investment objectives by sale or other disposition at attractive prices or will otherwise be unable to complete any exit strategy. In particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio company in which the investment is made, changes in technology, changes in national or international economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions of countries in which investments are made. Our merchant banking funds will typically invest in securities of a class that are not publicly-traded. In many cases we may be prohibited by contract or by applicable securities laws from selling such securities for a period of time or otherwise be restricted from disposing of such securities. We will generally not be able to sell these securities publicly unless their sale is registered under applicable 9 Table of Contents securities laws, or unless an exemption from such registration requirements is available. Moreover, in cases where we hold publicly traded securities, we may be further limited in our ability to sell such securities if we sit on the board of directors of the portfolio company. In particular, our merchant banking funds’ ability to dispose of investments is heavily dependent on the merger and acquisition environment and the initial public offering market, which fluctuates in terms of both volume of transactions as well as the types of companies which are able to access the market. Furthermore, the types of investments made may require a substantial length of time to liquidate. In addition, the investments in these funds are reported at estimated fair value at the end of each quarter and our allocable share of these gains or losses will affect our revenue, which could increase the volatility of our quarterly earnings, even though such gains or losses may have no cash impact. It takes a substantial period of time to identify attractive merchant banking opportunities, to negotiate a transaction with the seller and arrange the financing to make an investment and then to realize the cash value of our investment through resale. Even if a merchant banking investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash from such investment. We value our merchant banking portfolio and other investments each quarter using a fair value methodology, which could result in gains or losses to the firm; the fair value methodology may over- or under-state the ultimate value we will realize; clawbacks and losses could affect our stock price adversely The firm makes principal investments in GCP, GSAVP and GCP Europe and similar vehicles. As of December 31, 2008, the value of the firm’s principal investment in GCP, GSAVP and GCP Europe and other investments was $72.0 million. The value of our fund investments is recorded at estimated fair value and is determined on a quarterly basis by the general partner after giving consideration to the cost of the security, the pricing of other sales of securities by the portfolio company, the price of securities of other companies comparable to the portfolio company, purchase multiples paid in other comparable third party transactions, the original purchase price multiple, market conditions, liquidity, operating results and other quantitative and qualitative factors. Significant changes in the public equity markets may have a material effect on the fair value of our principal investments and therefore on our revenues and profitability during any reporting period. The estimated fair value at which the principal investments are carried on our books may vary significantly from period to period depending on a number of factors beyond our control. It may not be possible to sell these investments at the estimated fair values attributed to them in our financial statements. Moreover, that portion of our merchant banking revenue which is attributable to realized profit overrides is subject to repayment to the limited partners of our merchant banking funds if certain performance hurdles for those funds are not met (which we refer to as a “clawback”). As a result, our stock price could be adversely affected by losses in the value of these investments or clawbacks. Investors in our merchant banking funds may elect to remove us as the general partner of those funds at any time without cause. Such removal would lead to a decrease in our revenues, which could be substantial and lead, therefore, to a material adverse effect on our business The third-party investors in our merchant funds may, subject to certain conditions, act at any time to remove us as the general partner in those funds without cause, resulting in a reduction in management fees we earn from such funds, and a significant reduction in the amounts of profit overrides we could earn from those funds. In addition to the significant negative impact on our revenue and earnings, the occurrence of such an event with respect to any of our funds would likely result in significant reputational damages as well. 10 Table of Contents A significant deterioration in the credit markets or the failure of one or more banking institutions could adversely affect our ability to access the cash invested by us A significant portion of our assets consist of cash and cash equivalents. We have invested these assets in instruments which we believe are highly liquid, and monitor developments relating to the liquidity of these investments on a regular basis, but in the event of a significant deterioration of the credit markets or the failure of one or more banking institutions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to liquidate these assets or access our cash. Our inability to access our cash investments could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and result in a charge to our earnings which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock. Our inability to refinance our existing revolving credit facility could adversely effect our operations. We have a revolving loan commitment from a U.S. commercial bank which expires December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2008 we had $26.5 million drawn down from the facility. We utilize the revolving loan facility to provide for our domestic cash needs, which include the funding of capital calls for GCP II and GSAVP, dividend payments, share repurchases and for other corporate purposes. The duration of the loan commitment extends for twelve months. Our inability to extend the maturity date or retain the existing commitment amount of the loan with the existing lender or to find another lender would require us to repay all or a portion of the loan balance. In that event it is likely we would be required to repatriate funds to the U.S. to fund the repayment. This could result in an incremental tax charge. Our inability to refinance the loan facility could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and result in our inability to meet our obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We face strong competition from far larger firms and small independent firms The investment banking industry is intensely competitive and we expect it to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our advice and service, innovation, reputation and price. We believe we may experience pricing pressures in our areas of operation in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. We are a relatively small investment bank, with 234 employees (including managing directors and senior advisors) as of December 31, 2008 and total revenues of approximately $221.9 million in 2008. Most of our competitors in the investment banking industry have a far greater range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition, more managing directors to serve their clients’ needs, greater global reach and more established relationships with their customers than we have. These larger and better capitalized competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the investment banking market, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share generally. The scale of our competitors has increased over the years as a result of substantial consolidation among companies in the investment banking industry. In 2008, this trend of consolidation and convergence accelerated considerably as several major U.S. financial institutions consolidated, filed for bankruptcy protection, were forced to merge or received substantial government assistance. In addition, a number of large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms have established or acquired financial advisory practices and broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions. These firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage, asset management and investment banking services, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services revenues in an effort to gain market share, which could result in pricing pressure in our businesses. In particular, the ability to provide financing as well as advisory services has become an important advantage for some of our larger competitors, and because we are unable to provide such financing we may be unable to compete for advisory clients in a significant part of the advisory market. 11 Table of Contents In addition to our larger competitors, over the last few years, a number of new, smaller independent boutique investment banks have emerged which offer independent advisory services. Many of these firms have been formed by high profile investment bankers who have exited the bulge bracket firms. These firms differentiate themselves from the large multi-line investment banks and compete with us for business where independent, unconflicted advice is sought. Strategic investments, acquisitions and joint ventures, or foreign expansion may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. We intend to grow our core business through both recruiting and internal expansion and through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures. In the event we make strategic investments or acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls. In the case of joint ventures, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact our business. To the extent that we pursue business opportunities outside the United States, we will be subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in a foreign country, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular foreign market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in the relevant jurisdictions. Greenhill is predominantly owned by its managing directors whose interests may differ from those of our public shareholders Our managing directors and their affiliated entities collectively own approximately 45% of the total shares of common stock outstanding at December 31, 2008. Robert F. Greenhill and members of his family beneficially own approximately 14% of our common stock. As a result of these shareholdings, Robert F. Greenhill and our other employees currently are able to exercise significant influence over the election of our entire board of directors, the management and policies of Greenhill and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of Greenhill. Employee misconduct could harm Greenhill and is difficult to detect and deter There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur at our company. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. Our financial advisory business often requires that we deal with client confidences of the greatest significance to our clients, improper use of which may have a material adverse impact on our clients. Any breach of our clients’ confidences as a result of employee misconduct may impair our ability to attract and retain advisory clients. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. 12 Table of Contents We may face damage to our professional reputation and legal liability to our clients and affected third parties if our services are not regarded as satisfactory As an investment banking firm, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, it may be more damaging in our business than in other businesses. Moreover, our role as advisor to our clients on important mergers and acquisitions or restructuring transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering “fairness opinions” in connection with mergers and other transactions. Our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties, including shareholders of our clients who could bring securities class actions against us. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial intermediaries have been increasing. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Our engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be enforceable in all cases. As a result, we may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business prospects. We are subject to extensive regulation in the financial services industry We, as a participant in the financial services industry, are subject to extensive regulation in the United States, Europe and elsewhere. In the U.S., our broker-dealer subsidiary, Greenhill & Co., LLC is subject to regulation in the United States, by the SEC and FINRA. In the U.K., our subsidiaries, Greenhill & Co. International LLP and Greenhill & Co. Europe LLP, as well as Greenhill Capital Partners Europe LLP, are subject to regulation by the Financial Services Authority. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of the registration of us or any of our broker-dealer or investment adviser subsidiaries. Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing clients or fail to gain new clients. Our U.S. broker-dealer and our U.K. and German investment banking affiliates are subject to periodic examinations by regulatory authorities. We cannot predict the outcome of any such examination. Our business may also be subject to regulation by non-U.S. governmental and regulatory bodies and self-regulatory authorities in other countries where Greenhill operates. Some of our subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the SEC. Registered investment advisers are subject to the requirements and regulations of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Such requirements relate to, among other things, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on transactions between an advisor and its clients or between an advisor’s clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. In addition, as a result of recent highly publicized financial scandals, the regulatory environment in which we operate may be subject to further regulation. New laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may also adversely affect our business. Further, financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interest or perceived conflicts. While we have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts, these policies and procedures carry attendant costs and may not be adhered to by our employees. Failure to adhere to these polices and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. 13 Table of Contents Legal restrictions on our clients may reduce the demand for our services New laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may also adversely affect our businesses. For example, changes in antitrust enforcement could affect the level of mergers and acquisitions activity and changes in regulation could restrict the activities of our clients and their need for the types of advisory services that we provide to them. Fees earned in connection with advisory assignments in the bankruptcy context may be subject to challenge and reduction In our financial advisory business we from time to time advise debtors or creditors of companies which are involved in bankruptcy proceedings in the United States Bankruptcy Courts. Under the applicable rules of those courts, our fees are subject to approval by the court and other interested parties have the ability to challenge the payment of those fees. Fees earned and reflected in our revenues may from time to time be subject to successful challenges, which could result in a reduction of revenues and affect our stock price adversely. Our share price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale Sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our managing directors and other employees, or the possibility of such sales, may adversely affect the price of the common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. As of December 31, 2008, there were 27,981,150 shares of common stock outstanding, which is net of 4,849,273 shares of common stock held in treasury. Of those shares, 12,355,083 shares of common stock are subject to a lock-up and may not be sold until November 6, 2009, subject to certain exceptions. The lock-up was entered into by the selling shareholders in our November 2008 offering (which included nearly all of our pre-IPO managing directors and certain other managing directors). It restricts the transfer of all the shares owned or subsequently acquired during the one year lock-up period, effectively extending and broadening the five year transfer restriction agreed to by our pre-IPO managing directors in respect of the shares they received at the time of our initial public offering in May 2004. A significant portion of the compensation of our managing directors is paid in restricted stock units and the shares we expect to issue on the vesting of those restricted stock units could result in a significant increase in the number of shares of common stock outstanding At the time of and since our initial public offering we have awarded our directors, managing directors and other employees restricted stock units. At December 31, 2008, 2,014,686 restricted stock units were outstanding and an additional 697,254 restricted stock units were granted to employees subsequent to year end as part of the long-term incentive award program. A significant portion of the compensation of our managing directors is paid in restricted stock units. Each restricted stock unit represents the holder’s right to receive one share of our common stock or a cash payment equal to the fair value thereof, at our election, following the applicable vesting date. Awards of restricted stock units to our managing directors and other employees generally vest either ratably over a five year period beginning on the first anniversary of the grant date or do not vest until the fifth anniversary of their grant date, when they vest in full. Shares will be issued in respect of restricted stock units only under the circumstances specified in the applicable award agreements and the equity incentive plan, and may be forfeited in certain cases. Assuming all of the conditions to vesting are fulfilled, shares in respect of the 2,014,686 restricted stock units that are outstanding as of December 31, 2008 would be issued as follows: 350,499 shares in 2009, 642,062 shares in 2010, 605,378 shares in 2011, 207,751 shares in 2012 and 208,996 shares in 2013. While we have historically repurchased in the open market and through privately negotiated transactions a significant number of our shares of common stock, if we were to cease to or were unable to repurchase shares of common stock, the number of shares outstanding would increase over time, diluting the ownership of our existing stockholders. 14 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock may decline The price of the common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including the perceived prospects of Greenhill and the financial services industry in general, differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors, the performance of our merchant banking portfolio, changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. Declines in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain key employees, including our managing directors. We have experienced rapid growth over the past several years, which may be difficult to sustain and which may place significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources Our future growth will depend, among other things, on our ability to successfully identify practice groups and individuals to join our firm. It may take more than one year for us to determine whether new professionals will be effective. During that time, we may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources toward training, integration and business development. If we are unable to hire and retain successful professionals, we will not be able to implement our growth strategy and our financial results may be materially adversely affected. Sustaining growth will also require us to commit additional management, operational, and financial resources to this growth and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to maintain or accelerate our growth, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses. We may be required to make substantial payments under certain indemnification agreements In connection with our initial public offering and conversion to corporate form in May 2004, we entered into agreements that provide for the indemnification of our managing directors, directors, officers and certain other persons authorized to act on our behalf against certain liabilities of our managing directors relating to the time they were members or partners of Greenhill & Co. Holdings, LLC or its affiliates, and certain tax liabilities of our members that may arise in respect of periods prior to the offering when we were a limited liability company. We may be required to make substantial payments under these indemnification agreements, which could adversely affect our financial condition. Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements We have made statements under the captions “Business”, “Risk Factors”, and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in other sections of this Form 10-K that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “may”, “might”, “will”, “should”, “expect”, “plan”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “estimate”, “intend”, “predict”, “potential” or “continue”, the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance, based on our growth strategies and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from the results, level of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In particular, you should consider the numerous risks outlined under “Risk Factors”. These risks are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K may include additional factors which could adversely impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for our management to predict all risk factors, nor can we assess the impact 15 Table of Contents of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We are under no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this filing to conform our prior statements to actual results or revised expectations. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: • the statements about our policy that our total compensation and benefits, including that payable to our managing directors and senior advisors, will not exceed 50% of total revenues each year in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Compensation and Benefits”; • the statement about our expectation that revenues from our financial advisory business will continue to account for the majority of our revenues in the near to medium-term in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Overview”; • the statement about our expectations that we expect to expand our merchant banking management business and related activities over time in “Overview – Merchant Banking and Other”; • the statement about new managing directors adding incrementally to our revenue and income growth potential in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Overview”; • the statement about the bankruptcy or merger of our larger competitors will create opportunities for us to attract new clients and provide us with excellent recruiting opportunities to further expand our industry expertise and geographic reach in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Business Environment”; • the statement that weak economic and financial conditions should provide attractive opportunities to invest unspent merchant banking capital in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Business Environment”; • the statements about our expected annual fees from our merchant banking funds in 2009 and thereafter in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Merchant Banking and Other Revenues”; • the statement that GHLAC’s consummation of its transaction with Iridium could provide a significant source of additional merchant banking revenue after completion in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Merchant Banking and Other Revenues; • the statement about our expectation that non-compensation costs, particularly occupancy, travel and information services costs, will increase as we grow our business and make strategic investments in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Non-Compensation Expense”; and • the discussion of our ability to meet liquidity needs in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources”. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of the year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Act of 1934. 