Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition, and financial results are subject to various risks, including the following: Risks Relating to Our Merger Agreement On December 21, 2011, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Cod Intermediate, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“Parent”), and Cod Merger Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent (“Merger Sub”). Parent is owned by Macquarie Infrastructure Partners II U.S., L.P. and Macquarie Infrastructure Partners II International, L.P. Failure to complete the merger or delays in completing the merger could negatively affect our stock price and future businesses and operations. There is no assurance that we will be able to consummate the merger. If the merger is not completed for any reason, we may be subject to a number of risks, including the following: · we will not realize the benefits expected from the merger, including a potentially enhanced financial and competitive position; · the current market price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption that the merger will occur and a failure to complete the merger could result in a negative perception of us by the stock market and cause a decline in the market price of our common stock; · certain costs relating to the merger, including certain investment banking, financing, legal and accounting fees and expenses, must be paid even if the merger is not completed, and we may be required to pay substantial fees to Parent if the merger agreement is terminated under specified circumstances; and · we would continue to face the risks that we currently face as an independent company. Delays in completing the merger could exacerbate uncertainties concerning the effect of the merger, which may have an adverse effect on our business following the merger and could defer or detract from the realization of the benefits expected to result from the merger. There may be substantial disruption to our business and distraction of our management and employees as a result of the merger. There may be substantial disruption to our business and distraction of our management and employees from day-to-day operations because matters related to the merger may require substantial commitments of time and resources, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us. Business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending may have an adverse effect on us. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees, suppliers, partners, regulators, and customers may have an adverse effect on us. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel until the merger is consummated and could cause suppliers, customers and others that deal with us to defer purchases or other decisions concerning us or seek to change existing business relationships with us. In addition, the merger agreement restricts us from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions without Parent’s approval. These restrictions could prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the merger. 15 Table of Contents The merger agreement restricts our ability to pursue alternatives to the merger. The merger agreement contains “no shop” provisions that, subject to limited fiduciary exceptions, restrict our ability to initiate, solicit, encourage or facilitate, discuss, negotiate or accept a competing third party proposal to acquire all or a significant part of us. Further, there are only a limited number of exceptions that would allow our board of directors to withdraw or change its recommendation to holders of our common stock that they vote in favor of the adoption of the Merger Agreement. If our board of directors were to take such actions as permitted by the Merger Agreement, doing so in specified situations could entitle Parent to terminate the Merger Agreement and to be paid a termination fee of either $11 million or $16.5 million depending on the circumstances of such termination. These restrictions could deter a potential acquirer from proposing an alternative transaction. Risks Relating To Our Business Prevailing U.S. economic conditions over the last three years and the related decline in construction activity, as well as any future downturns, have reduced and may continue to reduce our volume and/or pricing on our services, resulting in decreases in our revenue, profitability and cash flows. Our business is affected by changes in national and general economic factors that are outside of our control, including economic activity, consumer confidence, interest rates and access to capital markets. Although our services are of an essential nature, a weak economy generally results in decreases in volumes of waste generated, particularly construction related waste, which decreases our revenues. In 2011, we believe that weakened economic conditions negatively impacted the volume of waste we have collected and disposed of. Additionally, consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may limit the number or amount of services requested by customers and our ability to increase customers’ pricing. During weak economic periods we may also be adversely impacted by customers’ inability to pay us in a timely manner, if at all, due to their financial difficulties, which could include bankruptcies. Increases in the costs of fuel may reduce our operating margins. The price and supply of fuel needed to run our collection and transfer trucks and our landfill equipment is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Any significant price escalations or reductions in the supply could increase our operating expenses or interrupt or curtail our operations. Failure to offset all or a portion of any increased fuel costs through increased fees or charges would reduce our operating margins. Our failure to remain competitive with our competitors, some of whom have substantially greater resources, could adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers and obtain future business. Our industry is highly competitive. We compete with large companies and municipalities, many of which have greater financial and operational resources. The non-hazardous solid waste collection and disposal industry includes large national, publicly-traded waste management companies; regional, publicly-held and privately-owned companies; and numerous small, local, privately-owned companies. Additionally, many counties and municipalities operate their own waste collection and disposal facilities and have competitive advantages not available to private enterprises. We also encounter competition from alternatives to landfill disposal, such as recycling and incineration, that benefit from state requirements to reduce landfill disposal. If we are unable to successfully compete against our competitors, our ability to retain existing customers and obtain future business could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents We may lose contracts through competitive bidding, early termination or governmental action, or we may have to substantially lower our prices in order to retain certain contracts, any of which would cause our revenue to decline. We are parties to contracts with municipalities and other associations and agencies. Many of these contracts are or will be subject to competitive bidding. We may not be the successful bidder, or we may have to substantially lower prices in order to be the successful bidder. In addition, some of our customers may terminate their contracts with us before the end of the contract term. If we were not able to replace revenue from contracts lost through competitive bidding or early termination or from lowering prices or from the renegotiation of existing contracts with other revenue within a reasonable time period, our revenue could decline. Municipalities may annex unincorporated areas within counties where we provide collection services, and as a result, our customers in annexed areas may be required to obtain service from competitors who have been franchised or contracted by the annexing municipalities to provide those services. Some of the local jurisdictions in which we currently operate grant exclusive franchises to collection and disposal companies, others may do so in the future, and we may enter markets where franchises are granted by certain municipalities. Unless we are awarded a franchise by these municipalities, we will lose customers, which will cause our revenue to decline. We may not be able to maintain sufficient insurance coverage to cover the risks associated with our operations, which could result in uninsured losses that would adversely affect our financial condition. Integrated non-hazardous waste companies are exposed to a variety of risks that are typically covered by insurance arrangements. However, we may not be able to maintain sufficient insurance coverage to cover the broad range of risks associated with our operations for a variety of reasons. Increases in insurance costs and changes in the insurance markets may, given our resources, limit the coverage that we are able to maintain or prevent us from insuring against certain risks. Large or unexpected losses may exceed our policy limits, adversely affecting our results of operations, and may result in the termination or limitation of coverage, exposing us to uninsured losses, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition. Increases in costs of insurance would reduce our operating margins. One of our largest operating costs is for insurance coverage, including general liability, automobile physical damage and liability, property, employment practices, pollution, directors and officers, fiduciary, workers’ compensation and employer’s liability coverage, as well as umbrella liability policies to provide excess coverage over the underlying limits contained in our primary general liability, automobile liability and employer’s liability policies. Changes in our operating experience, such as an increase in accidents or lawsuits or a catastrophic loss, could cause our insurance costs to increase significantly or could cause us to be unable to obtain certain insurance. Increases in insurance costs would reduce our operating margins. Changes in our industry and perceived risks in our business could have a similar effect. Our business is capital intensive, requiring ongoing cash outlays that may strain or consume our available capital and force us to sell assets, incur debt, or sell equity on unfavorable terms. Our ability to remain competitive, grow and maintain operations largely depends on our cash flow from operations and access to capital. Maintaining our existing operations and expanding them through internal growth or acquisitions requires large capital expenditures. As we undertake more acquisitions and further expand our operations, the amount we expend on capital, closure and post-closure and remediation expenditures will increase. These increases in expenditures may result in lower levels of working capital or require us to finance working capital deficits. We intend to continue to fund our cash needs through cash flow from operations and, if necessary, borrowings under our credit facility. However, we may require additional equity or debt financing to fund our growth. We do not have complete control over our future performance because it is subject to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors. It is possible that our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and we may not otherwise have the capital resources, to allow us to make necessary capital expenditures. If this occurs, we may have to sell assets, restructure our debt or obtain additional equity capital, which could be dilutive to our stockholders. We may not be able to take any of the foregoing actions, and we may not be able to do so on terms favorable to us or our stockholders. 17 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates may affect our profitability. Our acquisitions could require us to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, which will increase our interest expense. Further, to the extent that these borrowings are subject to variable rates of interest, increases in interest rates will increase our interest expense, which will affect our profitability. Borrowings under our revolving credit agreement became subject to changes in LIBOR rates. As of December 31, 2011, we had $99.0 million outstanding under the credit facility. A 100 basis point increase in LIBOR interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $1.0 million annually. Increases in the costs of disposal in landfills owned by third parties may reduce our operating margins. We dispose of approximately one-third of the waste that we collect in landfills operated by others. We may incur increases in disposal fees paid to third parties or in the costs of operating our own landfills. If we are unable to pass these costs on to our customers, our operating margins may be reduced. Increases in the costs of labor may reduce our operating margins. We compete with other businesses in our markets for qualified employees. A shortage of qualified employees would require us to enhance our wage and benefits packages to compete more effectively for employees or to hire more expensive temporary employees. Labor is our second largest operating cost, and even relatively small increases in labor costs per employee could materially affect our cost structure. Failure to attract and retain qualified employees, to control our labor costs, or to recover any increased labor costs through increased prices we charge for our services or otherwise offset such increases with cost savings in other areas may reduce our operating margins. We may not be successful in expanding the permitted capacity of our current or future landfills, which could restrict our growth, increase our disposal costs, and reduce our operating margins. Our ability to meet our growth objectives depends in part on our ability to expand landfill capacity, whether by acquisition or expansion. Exhausting permitted capacity at a landfill would restrict our growth and reduce our financial performance in the market served by the landfill, since we would be forced to dispose of collected waste at more distant landfills or at landfills operated by our competitors, thereby increasing our waste disposal expenses. Although we have received final permits on expansions at our existing landfills, there may be challenges, comments, or delays regarding the construction of specific cells that could have an adverse effect on our operations in these markets. Obtaining required permits and approvals to expand landfills has become increasingly difficult and expensive, requiring numerous hearings and compliance with various zoning, environmental and regulatory laws and drawing resistance from citizens, environmental or other groups. Even if permits are granted, they may contain burdensome terms and conditions or the timing required may be extensive and could affect the remaining permitted capacity at the landfill. We may choose to delay or forego tuck-in acquisitions in markets where the remaining lives of our landfills are relatively short because increased volumes would further shorten the lives of these landfills. 18 Table of Contents We are subject to environmental and safety laws, which restrict our operations and increase our costs. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and occupational safety and health. These include, among other things, laws and regulations governing the use, treatment, storage and disposal of wastes and materials, air quality, water quality and the remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances. Our compliance with existing regulatory requirements is costly, and continued changes in these regulations could increase our compliance costs. Government laws and regulations often require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify landfill operations and may, in the future, require us to initiate final closure of a landfill. We are required to obtain and maintain permits that are subject to strict regulatory requirements and that are difficult and costly to obtain and maintain. We may be unable to implement price increases sufficient to offset the cost of complying with these laws and regulations. In addition, regulatory changes could accelerate or increase expenditures for closure and post-closure monitoring at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend sums over the amounts that we have accrued. We may become subject to environmental clean-up costs or litigation that could curtail our business operations and materially decrease our earnings. CERCLA and analogous state laws provide for the remediation of contaminated facilities and impose strict joint and several liability for remediation costs on current and former owners or operators of a facility at which there has been a release or a threatened release of a hazardous substance. This liability is also imposed on persons who arrange for the disposal of and who transport such substances to the facility. Hundreds of substances are defined as hazardous under CERCLA and their presence, even in small amounts, can result in substantial liability. The expense of conducting a cleanup can be significant. Notwithstanding our efforts to comply with applicable regulations and to avoid transporting and receiving hazardous substances, we may have liability because these substances may be present in waste collected by us or disposed of in our landfills, or in waste collected, transported or disposed of in the past by companies that we acquire even if we did not collect or dispose of the waste while we owned the landfill. The actual costs for these liabilities could be significantly greater than the amounts that we might be required to accrue on our financial statements from time to time. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental regulations, we may incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties. As a result, we may be required to pay fines or our permits and licenses may be modified or revoked. We may in the future be a defendant in lawsuits brought by governmental agencies and private parties who assert claims alleging environmental damage, personal injury, property damage and/or violations of permits and licenses by us. A significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license or the imposition of a significant fine could curtail our business operations and may decrease our earnings. Governmental authorities may enact climate change regulations that could increase our costs to operate. Environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the United States have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. Congress has considered proposed legislation directed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. EPA has proposed rules to regulate greenhouse gases, regional initiatives have formed to control greenhouse gases and certain of the states in which we operate are contemplating air pollution control regulations that are more stringent than existing and proposed federal regulations, in particular the regulation of emissions of greenhouse gases. The adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely affect our collection and disposal operations. Changing environmental regulations could require us to take any number of actions, including the purchase of emission allowances or installation of additional pollution control technology, and could make some operations less profitable, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Our accruals for landfill closure and post-closure costs may be inadequate, and our earnings would be lower if we are required to pay or accrue additional amounts. We are required to pay closure and post-closure costs of any disposal facilities that we own or operate. We accrue for future closure and post-closure costs of our owned landfills, generally for a term of up to 30 years, based on engineering estimates of future requirements associated with the final landfill design and closure and post-closure process. Please read Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions” included in this Form 10-K. Our obligations to pay closure and post-closure costs, including for monitoring, may exceed the amount we accrued, which would adversely affect our earnings. Expenditures for these costs may increase as a result of any federal, state or local government regulatory action, including changes in closing or monitoring activities, types and quantities of materials used or the period of required post-closure monitoring. These factors could substantially increase our operating costs and therefore impair our ability to invest in our existing facilities or new facilities. The amount of our accruals is based upon estimates by management, engineers and accountants. We review at least annually our estimates for closure and post-closure costs, and any change in our estimates could require us to accrue additional amounts. We may be unable to obtain financial assurances necessary for our operations, which could result in the closure of landfills or the termination of collection contracts. We are required to provide financial assurances to governmental agencies under applicable environmental regulations relating to landfill closure and post-closure obligations, our landfill operations, and other collection and disposal contracts. We satisfy these financial assurances requirements by providing performance bonds, letters of credit, insurance policies or trust deposits. Comprehensive waste planning programs and initiatives required by state and local governments may reduce demand for our services, which could adversely affect our waste volumes and the price of our landfill disposal services. Many of the states in which we operate landfills require counties and municipalities to formulate comprehensive plans to reduce the volume of solid waste disposed of in landfills through waste planning, recycling, composting or other programs. Some state and local governments mandate waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of wastes, such as yard wastes, at landfills. These actions may reduce the volume of waste going to landfills in certain areas, and therefore our landfills may not continue to operate at currently estimated volumes or they may be unable to charge current prices for landfill disposal services. Efforts by labor unions to organize our employees could divert management attention and increase our operating expenses. In June 2011, effective as of March 6, 2011, we entered into a new collective bargaining agreement with the union representation at our transfer station in Rolla, Missouri (the “Rolla Contract”). The Rolla Contract is for a term of five years, expiring in March 2016. As of December 31, 2011, there were 16 employees in the group covered by the Rolla Contract. Additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future, and the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management attention and result in increased operating expenses and lower net income. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, we might have to wait through “cooling off” periods, which are often followed by union-initiated work stoppages, including strikes. Depending on the type and duration of these work stoppages, our operating expenses could increase significantly. 20 Table of Contents Current and proposed laws may restrict our ability to operate across local borders which could affect our manner, cost and feasibility of doing business. For the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately $3.8 million, or 1.6%, of our revenue was earned from the disposal of waste that is generated in a state other than the state where it is disposed. This excludes our Ohio and Massachusetts operations, where 74.3% of revenue was earned from a rail haul operation over a Class 1 rail line transporting waste from the east coast to our Sunny Farms Landfill in Ohio. Some states have imposed restrictions on collection routes and disposal locations. Other states, like Ohio, impose certain fees on out-of-state waste that is disposed of in Ohio, which may reduce operating margins to the extent such fees cannot be passed on to our customers. Furthermore, our collection, transfer and landfill operations may also be affected in the future by proposed “flow control” legislation that would allow state and local governments to direct waste generated within their jurisdictions to a specific facility for disposal or processing. Moreover, in the future, our operations may be affected by proposed federal legislation authorizing states to regulate, limit or perhaps even prohibit interstate shipments of waste. If this or similar legislation is enacted, state or local governments with jurisdiction over our landfills could act to limit or prohibit disposal or processing of out-of-state waste in our landfills, whether collected by us or by third parties which could affect our manner, cost and feasibility of doing business. Poor decisions by our regional and local managers could result in the loss of customers or an increase in costs, or adversely affect our ability to obtain future business. We manage our operations on a decentralized basis. Therefore, regional and local managers have the authority to make many decisions concerning their operations without obtaining prior approval from executive officers. Poor decisions by regional or local managers could result in the loss of customers or an increase in costs, or adversely affect our ability to obtain future business. We are vulnerable to factors affecting our local markets, which could adversely affect our stock price relative to our competitors. The non-hazardous waste business is local in nature. Accordingly, our business in one or more regions or local markets may be adversely affected by events and economic conditions relating to those regions or markets even if the other regions of the country are not affected. As a result, our financial performance may not compare favorably to our competitors with operations in other regions, and our stock price could be adversely affected by our inability to compete effectively with our competitors. Seasonal fluctuations will cause our business and results of operations to vary among quarters, which could adversely affect our stock price. Based on historic trends, we expect our operating results to vary seasonally, with revenue typically lowest in the first quarter, higher in the second and third quarters, and again lower in the fourth quarter. This seasonality generally reflects the lower volume of waste during the winter months. Adverse weather conditions negatively affect general economic activity, particularly in the construction industry, as well as waste collection productivity, resulting in higher labor and operational costs. The general increase in precipitation during the winter months increases the weight of collected waste, resulting in higher disposal costs, as costs are often calculated on a per ton basis. Because of these factors, operating income is generally lower in the winter months. As a result, our operating results may be negatively affected by these variations. Additionally, severe weather during any time of the year can negatively affect the costs of collection and disposal and may cause temporary suspensions of our collection and disposal services. Long periods of inclement weather may interfere with collection and landfill operations, delay the construction of landfill capacity and reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers. Any of these conditions can adversely affect our business and results of operations, which could negatively affect our stock price. 21 Table of Contents Risks Associated with Our Indebtedness We have a substantial amount of debt which could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. As of March 1, 2012, we had approximately $276.6 million of consolidated total indebtedness outstanding and approximately $87.9 million of additional borrowing capacity available under our credit facility. Our substantial debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for operations and other purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · make us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates; and · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt. In addition, we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, these related risks could increase. We may not maintain sufficient revenue and cash flow to meet our capital expenditure requirements and our financial obligations, including our debt service obligations. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to our debt will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to certain financial, business, and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay scheduled expansion and capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt on less than favorable terms. The provisions in our debt instruments impose restrictions on us that may limit the discretion of management in operating our business. Our credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes contain various restrictive covenants that limit management’s discretion in operating our business. In particular, these covenants limit our ability to, among other things: · incur additional debt or issue additional preferred stock; · make certain investments or pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock or subordinated indebtedness or purchase or redeem or retire capital stock; · sell or transfer assets, including capital stock of our restricted subsidiaries; · restrict dividends or other payments by our restricted subsidiaries; · incur liens; 22 Table of Contents · enter into transactions with our affiliates; and · consolidate, merge, sell or lease all or substantially all of our assets. The credit agreement also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial tests. Our ability to maintain or meet such financial ratios and tests may be affected by events beyond our control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, and we cannot assure you that we will maintain or meet such ratios and tests or that the lenders under the credit facility will waive any failure to meet such ratios or tests. These covenants could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs. Furthermore, they may restrict our ability to expand, to pursue our business strategies and otherwise to conduct our business. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by circumstances and events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in regulations. A breach of these covenants could result in a default under the indenture governing the senior notes and/or the credit facility. If there were an event of default under the indenture governing the senior notes and/or our credit facility, the affected creditors could cause all amounts borrowed under these instruments to be due and payable immediately. Additionally, if we fail to repay indebtedness under our credit agreement when it becomes due, the lenders under the credit agreement could proceed against substantially all of our assets, which we have pledged to them as security. Please read Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Bank Credit Facility” included in this Form 10-K. We are a holding company and do not directly conduct any business operations of our own. Our principal assets are the equity interests we own in our operating subsidiaries, either directly or indirectly. As a result, we are dependent upon cash dividends, distributions or other transfers we receive from our subsidiaries in order to repay any debt we may incur, to meet our other obligations, or to make any future distributions. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make payments to us will depend on their operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, applicable corporate, tax and other laws and regulations and agreements of those subsidiaries, as well as by the terms of our credit agreement and the indenture governing our senior notes. The inability or failure of any syndicate bank to meet its obligations under our credit facility could adversely impact our short-term and/or long-term capital or cash needs by limiting our access to swing-line loans, increasing the cost of issuing letters of credit, or reducing the total capacity available under the revolving credit facility. While we are not aware of any issues affecting the participant banks under our credit facility, if a participant bank were to fail or otherwise become unable to fund its lending commitment to us, and we were unable to replace any lending commitments, we may not be able to access funds from our credit facility as needed to fully fund our operations and/or our cost of obtaining working capital, letters of credit and other forms of funding could increase significantly and materially impact our operations and earnings. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. Although market conditions appear to be more stabilized, the capital and credit markets experienced extreme disruption in recent years. If similar conditions arise in the future, it is likely to exert downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses and interest on our debt and to fund our acquisitions. The lack of sufficient liquidity may have a materially adverse effect on our operations and financial results. The principal sources of our liquidity are cash on hand, cash flow from our operations, and access to borrowings under our credit facility. Sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium- and long-term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities and stockholders’ equity. 23 Table of Contents In the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if the level of our business activity decreased due to a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Risks Relating to Our Acquisitions On February 28, 2011, we completed the acquisition of certain assets of Emerald Waste Services (“Emerald Waste”), including one transfer station and three collection operations in Central Florida. The consideration for the acquisition consisted of $33.0 million in cash and 2,409,639 shares of our common stock pursuant to an amended equity interest purchase agreement. This acquisition is subject to various risks, including the following: · At March 1, 2012, EWS Holdings, LLC (“EWS Holdings”) beneficially own approximately 10.1% of our common stock. Accordingly, subject to certain contractual voting restrictions EWS Holdings has significant voting power and potential influence and control over our company. This concentration of ownership and the potential ability to significantly influence our management and affairs may have the effect of preventing or discouraging transactions involving a potential change of control or may otherwise adversely affect us. · Cash expenditures and capital commitments associated with our acquisition of Emerald Waste may create significant liquidity and cash flow risks for us, and we may incur substantial debt in order to satisfy our obligations. · The integration of WCA and Emerald Waste may not be completed successfully, cost-effectively or on a timely basis. · If we are unable to identify and successfully acquire and integrate additional waste collection operations in Florida markets we acquired from Emerald Waste that enable us to leverage the acquisition of the collection operations and the transfer station, the long-term benefits of the acquisition could be diminished. · As shares of our common stock issued in the acquisition of Emerald Waste become eligible for resale (which is generally not earlier than six months from the closing date), our stock price may suffer a significant decline as a result of the dilution caused by the increase in the number of our shares sold in the public market or market perception that the increased number of our shares available for sale will exceed the demand for our common stock. On December 31, 2009, we consummated the acquisition of the Live Earth Companies, which included certain assets and related liabilities held by Live Earth, LLC that relate to the Live Earth Companies. The consideration for the Live Earth Companies consisted of $19.7 million in cash and 5,555,556 shares of our common stock, which includes 3,555,556 shares that were issued at closing and up to 2,000,000 shares of our common stock that may be issued pursuant to certain earn-out provisions (the “Earn-Out Shares”). The acquisition of the Live Earth Companies is subject to various risks, including the following: · At March 1, 2012, individuals affiliated with Live Earth beneficially own approximately 10.2% of our common stock and could beneficially own up to 13.5% of our common stock if the Earn-out Shares are issued. In addition, Dan Clark, an affiliate of Live Earth, serves on our board of directors. Accordingly, subject to certain contractual voting restrictions these individuals have significant voting power and potential influence and control over our company. This concentration of ownership and the potential ability to significantly influence our management and affairs may have the effect of preventing or discouraging transactions involving a potential change of control or may otherwise adversely affect us. 24 Table of Contents · Cash expenditures and capital commitments associated with the operations we acquired from Live Earth may create significant liquidity and cash flow risks for us, and we may incur substantial debt in order to satisfy our obligations. · If railway access to the Sunny Farms Landfill were limited or prohibited due to the termination of the current contract with a Class 1 railroad operator or otherwise disrupted for any significant period of time, the operations of the landfill would suffer. · If material disposed of at the Sunny Farms Landfill, one of the Live Earth Companies, is reclassified by the Ohio Attorney General or another regulatory authority, we could face higher fees or civil money penalties that could negatively affect the profitability of our operations at the Sunny Farms Landfill. · If we are unable to identify and successfully acquire and integrate additional waste collection operations in the eastern United States that permit us to leverage the acquisition of the Live Earth Companies, the long-term benefits of the acquisition could be diminished. · As shares of our common stock issued in the acquisition of the Live Earth Companies become eligible for resale (which in most instances is not earlier than 18 months from the closing date), our stock price may suffer a significant decline as a result of the dilution caused by the increase in the number of our shares sold in the public market or market perception that the increased number of our shares available for sale will exceed the demand for our common stock. We may be unable to identify, complete or integrate future acquisitions, which may harm our prospects. We may be unable to identify appropriate acquisition candidates. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to negotiate acceptable terms or finance the acquisition or, if the acquisition occurs, effectively integrate the acquired business into our existing business. Negotiations of potential acquisitions and the integration of acquired business operations require a disproportionate amount of management’s attention and our resources. Even if we complete additional acquisitions, continued financing may not be available or available on reasonable terms, any new businesses may not generate revenues comparable to our existing businesses, the anticipated cost efficiencies or synergies may not be realized and these businesses may not be integrated successfully or operated profitably or accretive to our earnings. We compete for acquisition candidates with other purchasers, some of which have greater financial resources and may be able to offer more favorable terms, thus limiting our ability to grow through acquisitions. Other companies in the solid waste services industry also have a strategy of acquiring and consolidating regional and local businesses. We expect that as the consolidation trend in our industry continues, the competition for acquisitions will increase. Competition for acquisition candidates may make fewer acquisition opportunities available to us or make those opportunities more expensive. In connection with financing acquisitions, we may incur additional indebtedness or issue additional equity, including common stock or preferred stock, which would dilute the ownership percentage of existing stockholders. We intend to finance acquisitions with available cash, borrowings under our credit facility, our equity including common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of these means. As a result, we may incur additional indebtedness or issue additional equity which would dilute the ownership percentage of existing stockholders. Our credit facility contains covenants restricting, among other things, the amount of additional indebtedness. We may offer equity as some or all of the consideration for certain acquisitions. Our ability to do so will depend in part on the attractiveness of our equity. This attractiveness may depend largely on the capital appreciation prospects of our equity compared to the equity of our competitors. 25 Table of Contents Businesses that we acquire may have unknown liabilities and require unforeseen capital expenditures, which would adversely affect our financial results. We may acquire businesses with liabilities that we fail to discover or accurately quantify, including liabilities arising from non-compliance with environmental laws by prior owners for which we may be responsible as the successor owner. Moreover, as we integrate a new business, we may discover that required expenses and capital expenditures are greater than anticipated, which would adversely affect our financial results. Rapid growth may strain our management, operational, financial and other resources, which would adversely affect our financial results. Pursuing acquisitions requires significant time from our senior management. We may also be required to expand our operational and financial systems and controls and our management information systems capabilities. We may also need to attract and train additional senior managers, technical professionals and other employees. Failure to do any of these could restrict our ability to maintain and improve our profitability while continuing to grow. Our acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions we make may continue to result, in significant goodwill and other intangible assets, which may need to be written down if performance is not as expected. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $116.7 million of goodwill and other intangible assets, representing approximately 23.5% of our total assets. If we complete acquisitions at prices greater than the fair value of the assets acquired, we would generate additional goodwill. We are required to test our goodwill at least annually for impairment, which would require us to incur a charge if we determine there is a reduction in value. Any such charge would reduce our assets and earnings. We may incur charges and other unforeseen expenses related to mergers and acquisitions, which could lower our earnings. All merger and acquisition related transaction and restructuring costs are expensed as incurred rather than capitalized as part of the merger and acquisition costs. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we expensed $1.8 million of such costs. We may incur more charges related to mergers and acquisitions in future periods, which could lower our earnings. Risks Relating to Our Operations and Corporate Organization Our success depends on key members of our senior management, the loss of any of whom could disrupt our customer and business relationships and our operations. We believe that our continued success depends in large part on the sustained contributions of our chairman of the board and chief executive officer, Mr. Tom J. Fatjo, Jr., our president and chief operating officer, Mr. Jerome M. Kruszka, and other members of our senior management. We rely on them to identify and pursue new business opportunities and acquisitions and to execute operational strategies. The loss of services of Messrs. Fatjo, Jr. or Kruszka or any other senior management member could significantly impair our ability to identify and secure new contracts and acquisitions and otherwise disrupt our operations. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our senior executives. We have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers that contain non-compete and confidentiality covenants. Despite these agreements, we may not be able to retain these officers and may not be able to enforce the non-compete and confidentiality covenants in their employment agreements if any of them chose to join one of our competitors. 26 Table of Contents A controlling interest in our voting stock is held by one fund and a small number of individuals (including management), which when combined with various agreements and rights of the fund, may discourage a change of control transaction and may exert control over our strategic direction. As of March 1, 2012, · Joseph E. LoConti, Daniel J. Clark and certain of their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 10.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. · Ares Corporate Opportunities Fund II L.P. (“Ares”) held preferred shares convertible into our common stock at a price of $9.60 per share. The preferred shares were issued on July 27, 2006 and carry a 5% payment-in-kind (“PIK”) dividend payable semi-annually. As of March 1, 2012, the preferred shares were immediately convertible into 10,298,896 shares of our common stock (representing approximately 30.1% of the outstanding common stock on a post-conversion basis). Dividends are solely PIK through July 2011 — that is, they are payable solely by adding the amount of dividends to the stated value of each share. Because the preferred shares have not been converted within five years of issuance, we have the option to PIK or pay a cash dividend at the rate of 5% per annum. The preferred shares have no stated maturity and no mandatory redemption requirements. Ares is entitled to vote its preferred shares as if converted (subject to contractual restrictions with us), is entitled to elect two directors, and is entitled to other contractual rights. Please read Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Preferred Stock” included in this Form 10-K for a description of the various arrangements with Ares. · EWS Holdings owned approximately 10.1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. · Our executive officers, directors and their related entities owned or controlled approximately 13.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, these parties collectively hold a controlling vote and will have the ability to significantly influence our management and affairs. This concentration of ownership and the potential ability to significantly influence our management and affairs may have the effect of preventing or discouraging transactions involving a potential change of control or otherwise adversely affect us. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could preclude a change of control that our stockholders may favor and which could negatively affect our stock price. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws and applicable provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws: · authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; · prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow holders of less than a majority of stock to elect some directors; · require super-majority voting to effect amendments to provisions of our amended and restated bylaws concerning the number of directors; · limit who may call special meetings; 27 Table of Contents · prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; · establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholders meeting; and · require that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly-created directorships, be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, so you can only realize a return on your investment by selling your shares of our common stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors and are prohibited by the terms of our credit facility. Please read Part II, Item 5 “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Dividend Policy” included in this Form 10-K. Accordingly, for the foreseeable future you can only realize a return on your investment by selling your shares of our common stock. We may issue preferred stock that has a liquidation or other preference over our common stock without the approval of the holders of our common stock, which may affect those holders rights or the market price of our common stock. Our board of directors is authorized to issue series of shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. Our board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or if we liquidate, dissolve or wind up our business and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. On July 13, 2006, our stockholders approved the issuance of 750,000 shares of convertible preferred stock at $100.00 per share in the private placement with Ares. The shares were issued on July 27, 2006. The preferred stock is convertible into shares of our common stock at a price of $9.60 per share and carries a 5% PIK dividend payable semi-annually. Because the preferred shares have not been converted within five years of issuance, we have the option to PIK or pay a cash dividend at the rate of 5% per annum. The preferred shares have no stated maturity and no mandatory redemption requirements. The preferred shares were convertible into 7,812,500 shares of our common stock on the issuance date and with the effect of the cumulative PIK dividends would be convertible into 10,298,896 shares of common stock as of March 1, 2012. Ares holds certain preferential rights, including the right to appoint two directors. We can force a conversion into our common stock following either (i) the average of the closing price of the common stock for each of 20 consecutive trading days exceeding $14.40 per share or (ii) a fundamental transaction that Ares does not treat as a liquidation. We can, at our discretion, redeem for cash equal to the liquidation preference. The original issuance date for the preferred stock is the commitment date for both the preferred stock and the initial five years’ worth of dividends as the payment of the dividends through in-kind payments were non-discretionary for the initial five-year period that expired on July 27, 2011. Based on the fair value of our underlying common stock on the issuance date and the stated conversion date, there is no beneficial conversion feature associated with the issuance of the preferred stock. 28 Table of Contents If we are unable to comply with the requirements for listing on The Nasdaq Stock Market (“Nasdaq”), we may be delisted from Nasdaq, which could negatively affect our stock price. Our common stock is listed on Nasdaq. To meet the continued listing requirements of Nasdaq, we must meet specific corporate governance standards, including soliciting proxies and holding our annual meeting of stockholders within the time frame allowed under Listing Rules 5620(a) and 5620(b). On January 3, 2012, we received a Nasdaq Staff Determination Letter informing us that the Staff had concluded that we, by not holding our 2011 annual meeting by December 31, 2011, had not solicited proxies for, or held, our annual meeting within the time frame allowed under Listing Rules 5620(a) and 5620(b) and accordingly, determined to initiate procedures to delist the our common stock from Nasdaq. In accordance with the procedures set forth in the Nasdaq Listing Rules, we timely appealed the staff determination, and requested a hearing before a NASDAQ Hearings Panel (the “Panel”). The hearing was held on February 9, 2012. On February 21, 2012, we received a letter notifying us that the Panel had granted our request for continued listing, subject to our holding our annual meeting on or before May 31, 2012. While we will not be required to hold an annual meeting in the event that our acquisition pursuant to the Merger Agreement is consummated by the end of the first quarter of 2012 and we believe that, in the event the merger is not completed in the anticipated time frame, that we will be able to comply with the Nasdaq requirements in the applicable time period, no assurances can be made that we will in fact be able to comply and that our common stock will remain listed on Nasdaq. If we are unable to comply with the Nasdaq requirements in the applicable time period, our common stock will be delisted from Nasdaq. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock and the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our stock, which could negatively impact our stock price, our ability to raise equity financing and our ability to consummate the merger pursuant to the Merger Agreement. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 