Item 1A. Risk Factors We face a variety of risks that are inherent in our business and our industry, including operational, legal and regulatory risks. The following are some of the more significant factors that could affect our business and our results of operations. We caution the reader that the list of factors may not be exhaustive. Other factors may exist that we cannot anticipate or that we do not consider to be significant based on information that is currently available. Risks Related to Our Business The volatility of oil and natural gas prices greatly affects our profitability. Our revenues, operating results, profitability, future rate of growth and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties depend primarily upon the prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have been volatile and are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. Any substantial decline in the price of oil and natural gas will likely have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and level of expenditures for the development of our oil and natural gas reserves, and may result in write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties as a result of our use of the full cost accounting method. Wide fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control, including: • worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and natural gas; • weather conditions; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the availability of drilling rigs and completion equipment; • the availability of pipeline capacity; • the price and volume of foreign imports; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions; and • the overall economic environment. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Declines in oil and natural gas prices would not only reduce 7 Table of Contents revenue, but could reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and reserves. Our success depends on acquiring or finding additional reserves. Our future success depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Our proved reserves will generally decline as reserves are produced, except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration or development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. To increase reserves and production, we must commence exploratory drilling, undertake other replacement activities or utilize third parties to accomplish these activities. There can be no assurance, however, that we will have sufficient resources to undertake these actions, that our exploratory projects or other replacement activities will result in significant additional reserves or that we will succeed in drilling productive wells at low finding and development costs. Furthermore, although our revenues may increase if prevailing oil and natural gas prices increase significantly, our finding costs for additional reserves could also increase. In accordance with customary industry practice, we rely in part on independent third party service providers to provide most of the services necessary to drill new wells, including drilling rigs and related equipment and services, horizontal drilling equipment and services, trucking services, tubular goods, fracing and completion services and production equipment. The oil and natural gas industry has experienced significant volatility in cost for these services in recent years and this trend is expected to continue into the future. Any future cost increases could significantly increase our development costs and decrease the return possible from drilling and development activities, and possibly render the development of certain proved undeveloped reserves uneconomical. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are uncertain and may vary substantially from actual production. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of expenditures, including many factors beyond our control. Petroleum engineering is not an exact science. Information relating to our proved oil and natural gas reserves is based upon engineering estimates. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, future site restoration and abandonment costs, the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs, all of which may in fact vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows expected therefrom prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and such variances may be material. We expect to obtain a substantial portion of our funds for the drilling and development of our oil and natural gas properties through borrowings. If such funds were not available to us, or if the terms upon which such funds would be available to us were unfavorable, the further development of our oil and natural gas reserves, and our financial condition and results of operations, could be adversely affected. We expect to fund a substantial portion of our future leasehold acquisitions and our drilling and development operations with borrowed funds. To the extent such funds are not available to us at all, or if the terms under which such funds would be available to us would be unfavorable, the further development of our oil and natural gas reserves could be adversely impacted and we could be limited as to the amount of additional 8 Table of Contents leasehold acreage we could acquire. In such events, we may be unable to replace our reserves of oil and natural gas which, subsequently, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Operating hazards and uninsured risks may result in substantial losses. Our operations are subject to all of the hazards and operating risks inherent in drilling for, and the production of, oil and natural gas, including the risk of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards such as oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases. The occurrence of any of these events could result in substantial losses to us due to injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. There can be no assurance that any insurance will be adequate to cover any losses or liabilities. We cannot predict the continued availability of insurance, or its availability at premium levels that justify its purchase. In addition, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by previous owners of properties purchased by us, which liabilities would not be covered by our insurance. Several of our subsidiaries are defendants in a pending class action suit alleging the underpayment of oil and natural gas royalties. If our subsidiaries were ultimately determined to be liable, the amount of the judgment could adversely affect our financial condition. Several of our subsidiaries are named defendants in a pending class action suit in which the plaintiffs are seeking monetary damages for our alleged underpayment of oil and natural gas royalties. The plaintiffs seek unspecified damages for alleged breach of contract, alleged tortious breach of implied covenants and alleged breach of fiduciary duty, together with punitive damages and other equitable relief. The aggregate dollar amount of the damages sought by the plaintiffs has not yet been calculated. If the amount of any damages ultimately awarded to the plaintiffs were material, it could adversely affect our financial condition. For a further discussion of this litigation, please see “Item 3. Business—Legal Proceedings” appearing elsewhere in this prospectus. Our operations are subject to various governmental regulations that require compliance that can be burdensome and expensive. Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local governmental regulations that may be changed from time to time in response to economic and political conditions. Matters subject to regulation include discharge from drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity to conserve supplies of oil and natural gas. In addition, the production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and natural gas, by-products thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with oil and natural gas operations are subject to regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment. These laws and regulations have continually imposed increasingly strict requirements for water and air pollution control and solid waste management, and compliance with these laws may cause delays in the additional drilling and development of our properties. Significant expenditures may be required to comply with governmental laws and regulations applicable to us. We believe the trend of more expansive and stricter environmental legislation and regulations will continue. While historically we have not experienced any material adverse effect from regulatory delays, there can be no assurance that such delays will not occur in the future. 9 Table of Contents Our method of accounting for investments in oil and natural gas properties may result in impairment of asset value, which could affect our stockholder equity and net profit or loss. We use the full cost method of accounting for our investment in oil and natural gas properties. Under the full cost method of accounting, all costs of acquisition, exploration and development of oil and natural gas reserves are capitalized into a “full cost pool.” Capitalized costs in the pool are amortized and charged to operations using the units-of-production method based on the ratio of current production to total proved oil and natural gas reserves. To the extent that such capitalized costs, net of amortization, exceed the present value of our proved oil and natural gas reserves (using a 10% discount rate) at any reporting date, such excess costs are charged to operations. Although we have never incurred a write down of the value of oil and natural gas properties, if a writedown is incurred, it is not reversible at a later date, even if the present value of our proved oil and natural gas reserves increases as a result of an increase in oil or natural gas prices. Properties that we acquire may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against them. As part of our business strategy, we continually seek acquisitions of oil and natural gas properties. The successful acquisition of oil and natural gas properties requires assessment of many factors, which are inherently inexact and may be inaccurate, including the following: • future oil and natural gas prices; • the amount of recoverable reserves; • future operating costs; • future development costs; • failure of titles to properties; • costs and timing of plugging and abandoning wells; and • potential environmental and other liabilities. Our assessment will not necessarily reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become familiar enough with the properties to assess fully their capabilities and deficiencies. With respect to properties on which there is current production, we may not inspect every well location, every potential well location, or pipeline in the course of our due diligence. Inspections may not reveal structural and environmental problems such as pipeline corrosion or groundwater contamination. We may not be able to obtain or recover on contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities that it created. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations. We face extensive competition in our industry. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We compete with major and independent oil and natural gas companies, many of whom have financial and other resources substantially in excess of those available to us. These competitors may be better positioned to take advantage of industry opportunities and to withstand changes affecting the industry, such as fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices and production, the availability of alternative energy sources and the application of government regulation. Risk Related to Our Common Stock We do not currently pay dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the future. Prior to consummation of the merger, RAM Energy regularly paid cash dividends to its stockholders. We intend to retain any future earnings to fund our operations. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. 10 Table of Contents A substantial number of shares of our common stock will be available for sale in the future, which may increase the volume of common stock available for sale in the open market and may cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We issued 25,600,000 shares of our common stock in connection with our acquisition of RAM Energy. These shares were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, and their resale is restricted. All of such shares are subject to a lock-up agreement and cannot be sold publicly until the expiration of the restricted periods set out in the lock-up agreement (a maximum of one year after May 8, 2006) and under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933. However, the holders of such shares have certain registration rights and will be able to sell their shares in the public market prior to such times if registration is effected. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. On November 10, 2006, we approved the grant of restricted stock awards under our 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan for an aggregate of 646,805 shares of our common stock to 22 of our employees, including two of our vice presidents, one of whom received an award of 75,100 shares, and the other who received an award of 69,170 shares. We will incur compensation expense of approximately $3.3 million, which will be recognized ratably through 2011, in connection with our November 10, 2006 restricted stock issuances. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we recognized $91,000 share-based compensation expense with respect to these grants. Voting control by our executive officers, directors and other affiliates may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. Persons who beneficially own approximately 60% of our outstanding common stock are parties to a voting agreement. These persons have agreed to vote for each other’s designees to our board of directors through director elections in 2008. Accordingly, they will be able to control the election of directors and, therefore, our policies and direction during the term of the voting agreement. This concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. You may experience dilution of your ownership interests due to the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We may in the future issue our previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders and purchasers of common stock offered hereby. We are currently authorized to issue one hundred million shares of common stock and one million shares of preferred stock with such designations, preferences and rights as determined by our board of directors. As of the date of this report, we had outstanding 41,153,530 shares of common stock, warrants to purchase 12,650,000 shares of our common stock and an agreement to issue 825,000 shares of our common stock upon the exercise of currently exercisable options to purchase 275,000 units, each unit consisting of one share of common stock and two warrants, each warrant to purchase one share of our common stock. These warrants, when issued, will be immediately exercisable. In addition, we have reserved an additional 1,209,195 shares for future issuance to employees as restricted stock or stock option awards pursuant to our 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The potential issuance of such additional shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future issuances of our securities for capital raising purposes or for other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. 11 Table of Contents Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control of our company. Delaware law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include the following provisions: • Classified Board of Directors. Our board of directors is divided into three classes with staggered terms of office of three years each. The classification and staggered terms of office of our directors make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board of directors. At least two annual meetings of stockholders, instead of one, generally would be required to effect a change in a majority of the board of directors. • Removal of Directors. Under Delaware law, directors that serve on a classified board, such as our directors, may be removed only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote. • Number of Directors, Board Vacancies, Term of Office. Our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws provide that only the board of directors may set the number of directors. We have elected to be subject to certain provisions of Delaware law which vest in the board of directors the exclusive right, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, to fill vacancies on the board even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum. When effective, these provisions of Delaware law, which are applicable even if other provisions of Delaware law or the charter or bylaws provide to the contrary, also provide that any director elected to fill a vacancy shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred, rather than the next annual meeting of stockholders as would otherwise be the case, and until his or her successor is elected and qualifies. • Advance Notice Provisions for Stockholder Nominations and Proposals. Our bylaws require advance written notice for stockholders to nominate persons for election as directors at, or to bring other business before, any meeting of stockholders. This bylaw provision limits the ability of stockholders to make nominations of persons for election as directors or to introduce other proposals unless we are notified in a timely manner prior to the meeting. • Amending the Bylaws. Our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to adopt, alter or repeal any provision of the bylaws or to make new bylaws. Our certificate of incorporation also provides that our bylaws may be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the outstanding shares of our capital stock. • Authorized but Unissued Shares. Under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has authority to cause the issuance of preferred stock from time to time in one or more series and to establish the terms, preferences and rights of any such series of preferred stock, all without approval of our stockholders. Nothing in our certificate of incorporation precludes future issuances without stockholder approval of the authorized but unissued shares of our common stock. We could issue additional preferred stock which could be entitled to dividend, liquidation and other special rights and preferences not shared by holders of our common stock or which could have anti-takeover effects. We are authorized to issue up to one million shares of preferred stock, which shares may be issued from time to time in one or more series as our board of directors, by resolution or resolutions, may from time to time determine. The voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, if any, of each such series of our preferred stock may differ 12 Table of Contents from those of any and all other series of preferred stock at any time outstanding, and, subject to certain limitations of the our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law, our board of directors may fix or alter, by resolution or resolutions, the designation, number, voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of each such series of our preferred stock. The issuance of any such preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and, therefore, could reduce the value of our common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell our assets to, a third party. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock could discourage, delay or prevent a takeover of us, thereby preserving our control by the current stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES 