Item 1A. Risk Factors Our ability to retain our managing directors is critical to the success of our business The success of our business depends upon the personal reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and project execution skills of our 43 managing directors and senior advisors at December 31, 2007, particularly our senior managing directors. Founded in 1996, our business has a more limited operating history than many of our competitors and, as a result, our managing directors’ personal reputations and relationships with our clients are a critical element in obtaining and maintaining client engagements, and forming and investing merchant banking funds. Accordingly, the retention of our managing directors is particularly crucial to our future success. The departure or other loss of Mr. Greenhill, our founder and Chairman, or the departure or other loss of any other managing director, each of whom manages substantial client relationships and possesses substantial experience and expertise, could materially adversely affect our ability to secure and successfully complete engagements and conduct our merchant banking business, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if any of our managing directors were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. There is no guarantee that the compensation arrangements, non-competition agreements and lock-up agreements we have entered into with our managing directors are sufficiently broad or effective to prevent our managing directors from resigning to join our competitors or that the non-competition agreements would be upheld if we were to seek to enforce our rights under these agreements. 5 Table of Contents A significant portion of our revenues are derived from advisory fees We have historically earned a significant portion of our revenues from advisory fees paid to us by our clients, in large part upon the successful completion of the client’s transaction or restructuring. Financial advisory revenues represented 92% and 72% of our total revenues in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Unlike diversified investment banks, we only have one other significant alternative source of revenue, but lack such other sources of revenue as securities trading or underwriting. We expect that our reliance on advisory fees will continue for the foreseeable future and a decline in our advisory engagements or the market for advisory services generally would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our merger and acquisition and restructuring advisory engagements are singular in nature and do not provide for subsequent engagements Our clients generally retain us on a non-exclusive, short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific merger or acquisition transactions or restructuring projects, rather than under exclusive long-term contracts. As these transactions are singular in nature and our engagements are not likely to recur, we must seek out new engagements when our current engagements are successfully completed or are terminated. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in the next-succeeding or any other period. In addition, when an engagement is terminated, whether due to the cancellation of a transaction due to market reasons or otherwise, we may earn limited or no fees and may not be able to recoup the costs that we incurred prior to that termination. A high percentage of our financial advisory revenues are derived from a few clients and the termination of any one advisory engagement could reduce our revenues and harm our operating results Each year, we advise a limited number of clients. Our top ten clients accounted for 56% of our total revenues in 2007 and 39% of our total revenues in 2006. Our single largest clients accounted for 12% and 10% of our total revenues in 2007 and 2006, respectively. While the composition of the group comprising our largest clients varies significantly from year to year, we expect that our advisory engagements will continue to be limited to a relatively small number of clients and that an even smaller number of those clients will account for a high percentage of revenues in any particular year. As a result, the adverse impact on our results of operation of one lost mandate or the failure of one transaction or restructuring on which we are advising to be completed can be significant. Investment gains from our merchant banking portfolio vary from period to period; these gains may not recur and may not be replaced by other gains; our investments may lose money We have a limited number of investments in our merchant banking portfolio. The fair value of these investments may appreciate (or depreciate) at different rates based on a variety of factors. There were no gains from any single investment that accounted for more than 10% of total revenues recognized by the firm in 2007 or 2006. Historically, gains from investments have been significantly impacted by market factors, specific industry conditions and other factors beyond our control, and we cannot predict the timing or size of any such gains in future periods. The lack of investment gains (and any losses which may be attributable to the investments in our merchant banking portfolio) may adversely affect our stock price. There will not be a consistent pattern in our financial results from quarter to quarter, which may result in increased volatility of our stock price We can experience significant variations in revenues and profits during the year. These variations can generally be attributed to the fact that our revenues are usually earned in large amounts throughout the year upon the successful completion of a transaction or restructuring, the timing of which is uncertain and is not subject to our control. Moreover, our ability to realize gains from our merchant banking portfolio may vary significantly from period to period and depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including most notably market and general economic conditions. 6 Table of Contents Compared to our larger, more diversified competitors in the financial services industry, we generally experience even greater variations in our revenues and profits. This is due to our dependence on a relatively small number of transactions for most of our revenues, with the result that our earnings can be significantly affected if any particular transaction is not completed successfully, and to the fact that we lack other, more stable sources of revenue in material amounts, such as brokerage and asset management fees, which could moderate some of the volatility in advisory revenues. In addition, our merchant banking investments are adjusted for accounting purposes to fair value at the end of each quarter. The value of our investment may increase or decrease significantly depending upon market factors that are beyond our control. As a result, it may be difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis, which could adversely affect our stock price. In addition, in many cases we are not paid for advisory engagements that do not result in the successful consummation of a transaction or restructuring. As a result, our business is highly dependent on market conditions and the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties. For example, a client could delay or terminate a transaction because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or shareholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, or adverse market conditions. Anticipated bidders for assets of a client during a restructuring transaction may not materialize or our client may not be able to restructure its operations or indebtedness due to a failure to reach agreement with its principal creditors. In these circumstances, in many cases we do not receive any advisory fees, other than the reimbursement of certain out-of-pocket expenses. The failure of the parties to complete a transaction on which we are advising, and the consequent loss of revenue to us, could lead to large adverse movements in our stock price. Difficult market conditions could adversely affect our business in many ways Adverse market or economic conditions would likely affect the number and size of transactions on which we provide mergers and acquisitions advice and therefore adversely affect our financial advisory fees. As our operations in the United States and Europe have historically provided most of our revenues and earnings, our revenues and profitability are particularly affected by economic conditions in these locations. Adverse market or economic conditions as well as a slowdown of activity in the sectors in which the portfolio companies of our merchant banking funds operate could have an adverse effect on the earnings of those portfolio companies, and therefore, our earnings. In addition, in the event of a market downturn, our merchant banking funds may find fewer opportunities to exit and realize value from their investments. In the event of an economic downturn, revenues from mergers and acquisitions advisory activities may decline, and revenues from restructuring advisory activities may not fully offset any such decline During a period when mergers and acquisitions activity declines and debt defaults increase, we increasingly rely on the provision of restructuring and bankruptcy advisory services as a source of new business. We provide various restructuring and restructuring-related advice to companies in financial distress or their creditors or other stakeholders. A number of factors affect demand for these advisory services, including general economic conditions and the availability and cost of debt and equity financing. However, our restructuring advisory business is significantly smaller than our mergers and acquisitions advisory business, and we may not be able to offset a decline in mergers and acquisitions revenue with revenue generated from restructuring advisory assignments. The requirement of Section 327 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code requiring that one be a ‘‘disinterested person’’ to be employed in a restructuring was modified recently to allow a person not to be disqualified solely by virtue of its status as an underwriter of securities. The ‘‘disinterested person’’ definition of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, as previously in effect, disqualified certain of our competitors. The new definition could allow for more financial services firms to compete for restructuring engagements as well as with respect to the recruitment and retention of professionals. If our competitors succeed in being retained in new restructuring engagements, our financial restructuring practice, and thereby our results of operations, could be materially adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents If demand for our restructuring services decreases, we could suffer a decline in revenues, which could lower our overall profitability. We are continuing to expand our merchant banking fund management business, which will entail increased levels of investments in high-risk, illiquid assets We continued to expand our merchant banking fund management business by establishing a new European merchant banking fund in 2007 and may expand our merchant banking business further. Our revenues from this business are primarily derived from management fees calculated as a percentage of committed capital and/or assets under management, investment gains and profit overrides, which are earned if investments are profitable over a specified threshold. Our ability to form new merchant banking funds is subject to a number of uncertainties, including adverse market or economic conditions, competition from other fund managers, and the ability to negotiate terms with major investors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to form new merchant banking funds. In 2007, we committed £25.0 million to our European merchant banking fund, GCP Europe. Those funds generally make investments in relatively high-risk, illiquid assets. Contributing capital to these funds is risky and we may lose some or all of the principal amount of our investments. We may occasionally make principal investments, such as our investment in GHL Acquisition Corp., a newly organized blank check company. These investments may be in high-risk, illiquid assets, and we may be required to hold such investments for a long time. We may lose all of the money we commit to such investments. Given the nature of the investments contemplated by GCP, GSAVP and GCP Europe, there is a significant risk that our merchant banking funds will be unable to realize their investment objectives by sale or other disposition at attractive prices or will otherwise be unable to complete any exit strategy. In particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio company in which the investment is made, changes in technology, changes in national or international economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions of countries in which investments are made. Our merchant banking funds will typically invest in securities of a class that are not publicly-traded. In many cases we may be prohibited by contract or by applicable securities laws from selling such securities for a period of time or otherwise be restricted from disposing of such securities. We will generally not be able to sell these securities publicly unless their sale is registered under applicable securities laws, or unless an exemption from such registration requirements is available. In particular, our merchant banking funds’ ability to dispose of investments is heavily dependent on the merger and acquisition environment, the initial public offering market, which fluctuates in terms of both volume of transactions as well as the types of companies which are able to access the market. Furthermore, the types of investments made may require a substantial length of time to liquidate. In addition, the investments in these funds are adjusted for accounting purposes to fair value at the end of each quarter and our allocable share of these gains or losses will affect our revenue even though such market fluctuations may have no cash impact, which could increase the volatility of our quarterly earnings. It takes a substantial period of time to identify attractive merchant banking opportunities, to raise all the funds needed to make an investment and then to realize the cash value of our investment through resale. Even if a merchant banking investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash from such investment. We value our merchant banking portfolio and other investments each quarter using a fair value methodology, which could result in gains or losses to the firm; the fair value methodology may over- or under-state the ultimate value we will realize; clawbacks and losses could affect our stock price adversely The firm makes principal investments in GCP, GSAVP and GCP Europe and similar vehicles. As of December 31, 2007, the value of the firm’s principal investment in GCP, GSAVP and GCP Europe and other investments was $98.0 million. The value of our fund investments is determined on a quarterly basis by the general partner of each fund based on the fair value of such investments. The 8 Table of Contents fair value of each investment is determined based on a number of factors including the length of time for which the investment has been held, the trading price of the shares (in the case of publicly traded securities), restrictions on transfer and other recognized valuation methodologies. Significant changes in the public equity markets may have a material effect on the fair value of our principal investments and therefore on our results of operations. The values at which the principal investments are carried on our books may increase or decrease depending on a number of factors beyond our control and may vary significantly from period to period. In addition, because of the inherent uncertainty of valuations, the estimated fair values of non-public securities may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a ready market for the securities existed. It may not be possible to sell these investments at the fair values attributed to them in our financial statements. Moreover, that portion of our merchant banking revenue which is attributable to profit overrides is subject to repayment to the limited partners of our merchant banking funds if certain performance hurdles for those funds are not met (which we refer to as a ‘‘clawback’’). As a result, our stock price could be adversely affected by losses in the value of these investments or clawbacks. Investors in our merchant banking funds may elect remove us as the general partner of those funds at any time without cause. These events would lead to a decrease in our revenues, which could be substantial and lead, therefore, to a material adverse effect on our business. The investors in our merchant funds may, subject to certain conditions, act at any time to remove us as the general partner in those funds without cause, resulting in a reduction in management fees we earn from such funds, and a significant reduction in the amounts of profit overrides we could earn from those funds. In addition to the significant negative impact on our revenue and earnings, the occurrence of such an event with respect to any of our funds would likely result in significant reputational damages as well. A significant deterioration in the credit markets or the failure of one or more banking institutions could adversely affect our ability to access the cash invested by us A significant portion of our assets consist of cash and cash equivalents. We have invested these assets in instruments which we believe are highly liquid, and monitor developments relating to the liquidity of these investments on a regular basis, but in the event of a significant deterioration of the credit markets or the failure of one or more banking institutions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to liquidate these assets or access our cash. Our inability to access our cash investments could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and result in a charge to our earnings which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock We face strong competition from far larger firms and small independent firms The investment banking industry is intensely competitive and we expect it to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our advice and service, innovation, reputation and price. We believe we may experience pricing pressures in our areas of operation in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. We are a relatively small investment bank, with 214 employees (including managing directors and senior advisors) on December 31, 2007 and total revenues of approximately $400.4 million in 2007. Most of our competitors in the investment banking industry have a far greater range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition, more managing directors to serve their clients’ needs, greater global reach and more established relationships with their customers than we have. These larger and better cap italized competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the investment banking market, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share generally. The scale of our competitors has increased over the years as a result of substantial consolidation among companies in the investment banking industry. In addition, a number of large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms have established or 9 Table of Contents acquired financial advisory practices and broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions. These firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage, asset management and investment banking services, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services revenues in an effort to gain market share, which could result in pricing pressure in our businesses. In particular, the ability to provide financing as well as advisory services has become an important advantage for some of our larger competitors, and because we are unable to provide such financing we may be unable to compete for advisory clients in a significant part of the advisory market. In addition to our larger competitors, over the last few years, a number of new, smaller independent investment banks have emerged which offer independent advisory services. These firms differentiate themselves from the large multi-line investment banks and compete with us for business where independent, unconflicted advice is sought. Strategic investments or acquisitions and joint ventures may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. We intend to grow our core business through both internal expansion and through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls. In the case of joint ventures, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact our business. To the extent that we pursue business opportunities outside the United States, we will be subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in a foreign country, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular foreign market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in the relevant jurisdictions. Greenhill is controlled by its managing directors whose interests may differ from those of our public shareholders Our managing directors and their affiliated entities collectively own approximately 58% of the total shares of common stock outstanding at December 31, 2007. Robert F. Greenhill and members of his family beneficially own approximately 18% of our common stock. As a result of these shareholdings, Robert F. Greenhill and our other employees currently are able to exercise significant influence over the election of our entire board of directors, the management and policies of Greenhill and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of Greenhill. Our employees currently are able to prevent or cause a change in control of Greenhill. Employee misconduct could harm Greenhill and is difficult to detect and deter There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur at our company. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the 10 Table of Contents improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. Our advisory business often requires that we deal with client confidences of the greatest significance to our clients, improper use of which may have a material adverse impact on our clients. Any breach of our clients’ confidences as a result of employee misconduct may impair our ability to attract and retain advisory clients. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. We may face damage to our professional reputation and legal liability to our clients and affected third parties if our services are not regarded as satisfactory As an investment banking firm, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, it may be more damaging in our business than in other businesses. Moreover, our role as advisor to our clients on important mergers and acquisitions or restructuring transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering ‘‘fairness opinions’’ in connection with mergers and other transactions. Our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties, including shareholders of our clients who could bring securities class actions against us. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial intermed iaries have been increasing. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Our engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be enforceable in all cases. As a result, we may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business prospects. We are subject to extensive regulation in the financial services industry We, as a participant in the financial services industry, are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and elsewhere. In the U.S., our broker-dealer subsidiary, Greenhill & Co., LLC is subject to regulation in the United States, including by the SEC and FINRA. In the U.K., our subsidiaries, Greenhill & Co. International LLP and Greenhill & Co. Europe LLP, as well as Greenhill Capital Partners Europe LLP, are subject to regulation by the Financial Services Authority. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of the registration of us or any of our broker-dealer or investment advisor subsidiaries. Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing clients or fail to gain new clients. Our U.S. broker-dealer and our U.K. and German investment banking affiliates are subject to periodic examinations by regulatory authorities. We cannot predict the outcome of any such examination. Our business may also be subject to regulation by non-U.S. governmental and regulatory bodies and self-regulatory authorities in other countries where Greenhill operates. Some of our subsidiaries are registered as investment advisors with the SEC. Registered investment advisors are subject to the requirements and regulations of the Investment Advisors Act of 1940. Such requirements relate to, among other things, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on transactions between an advisor and its clients or between an advisor’s clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. In addition, as a result of recent highly publicized financial scandals, the regulatory environment in which we operate may be subject to further regulation. New laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may also adversely affect our business. Further, financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interest or perceived 11 Table of Contents conflicts. While we have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts, these policies and procedures carry attendant costs and may not be adhered to by our employees. Failure to adhere to these polices and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. Legal restrictions on our clients may reduce the demand for our services New laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may also adversely affect our businesses. For example, changes in antitrust enforcement could affect the level of mergers and acquisitions activity and changes in regulation could restrict the activities of our clients and their need for the types of advisory services that we provide to them. Fees earned in connection with advisory assignments in the bankruptcy context may be subject to challenge and reduction In our advisory business we from time to time advise debtors or creditors of companies which are involved in bankruptcy proceedings in the United States Bankruptcy Courts. Under the applicable rules of those courts, our fees are subject to approval by the court and other interested parties have the ability to challenge the payment of those fees. Fees earned and reflected in our revenues may from time to time be subject to successful challenges, which could result in a reduction of revenues and affect our stock price adversely. Our share price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale Sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our managing directors and other employees, or the possibility of such sales, may adversely affect the price of the common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. As of December 31, 2007, there were 26,729,886 shares of common stock outstanding, which is net of 4,502,350 shares of common stock held in treasury. Subject to certain exceptions, 15,252,287 shares of common stock may not be sold until May 11, 2009, except in one or more underwritten public offerings approved by our underwritten offering committee which consists of Robert F. Greenhill (who chairs the committee), Scott L. Bok and Simon A. Borrows. Approval of an underwritten offering by the committee will require approval of either the chair of the committee or the joint approval of the other two members of the committee. Accordingly, Robert Greenhill alone, or Scott Bok and Simon Borrows together, may permit a sale of shares of our common stock that could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. After May 11, 2009, there will be no remaining contractual restrictions on resale on the shares issued to our managing directors at the time of the initial public offering. In addition, 5,331,599 of the shares of common stock outstanding held by Robert F. Greenhill through his affiliated entities and by Lord James Blyth are eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144 and are not subject to such contractual restrictions. A significant portion of the compensation of our managing directors is paid in restricted stock units and the shares we expect to issue on the vesting of those restricted stock units could result in a significant increase in the number of shares of common stock outstanding At the time of and since our initial public offering we have awarded our directors, managing directors and other employees restricted stock units. At December 31, 2007, 1,746,363 restricted stock units were outstanding. A significant portion of the compensation of our managing directors has been paid in restricted stock units. Each restricted stock unit represents the holder’s right to receive one share of our common stock or a cash payment equal to the fair value thereof, at our election, following the applicable vesting date. Awards of restricted stock units to our managing directors and other employees generally vest either ratably over a five year period beginning on the first anniversary of the grant date or do not vest until the fifth anniversary of their grant date, when they vest in full. Shares will be issued in respect of restricted stock units only under the circumstances specified in the applicable award agreements and the equity ince ntive plan, and may be forfeited in certain cases. Assuming all of the conditions to vesting are fulfilled, shares in respect of the 1,746,363 restricted 12 Table of Contents stock units that are outstanding as of December 31, 2007 would be issued as follows: 274,496 shares in 2008, 284,306 shares in 2009, 565,991 shares in 2010, 503,200 shares in 2011 and 118,370 shares in 2012. While we have historically been able to repurchase in the open market and through privately negotiated transactions a significant number of our shares of common stock, if we were to cease to or were unable to repurchase shares of common stock, the number of shares outstanding would increase over time, diluting the ownership of our existing stockholders. The market price of our common stock may decline The price of the common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including the perceived prospects of Greenhill and the financial services industry in general, differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors, the performance of our merchant banking portfolio, changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. Declines in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain key employees, including our managing directors. The historical and unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information in this Form 10-K may not permit you to predict our costs of operations The historical consolidated financial information in this Form 10-K relating to periods before May 11, 2004 does not reflect the added costs that we have incurred since that date as a public company or the changes that have occurred in our capital structure and operations as a result of our initial public offering. Because we operated through partnerships and limited liability companies prior to our transition to corporate form, at the time of our initial public offering in May 2004, we paid little or no taxes on profits and paid limited salaries to our managing directors. In preparing our unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information for 2004 and years prior, we deducted and charged to earnings estimated income taxes based on an estimated tax rate, which may be different from our actual tax rate in the future, and estimated salaries, payroll taxes and benefits for our managing directors. The estimates we used in our unaudited pro forma c onsolidated financial information may not be similar to our actual experience as a public corporation. For more information on our historical financial statements and unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information, see ‘‘Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information’’ included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We have experienced rapid growth over the past several years, which may be difficult to sustain and which may place significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources Our future growth will depend, among other things, on our ability to successfully identify practice groups and individuals to join our firm. It may take more than one year for us to determine whether new professionals will be effective. During that time, we may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources toward training, integration and business development. If we are unable to hire and retain successful professionals, we will not be able to implement our growth strategy and our financial results may be materially adversely affected. Sustaining growth will also require us to commit additional management, operational, and financial resources to this growth and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to maintain or accelerate our growth, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses. We may be required to make substantial payments under certain indemnification agreements In connection with our initial public offering and conversion to corporate form in May 2004, we entered into agreements that provide for the indemnification of our managing directors, directors, officers and certain other persons authorized to act on our behalf against certain liabilities of our managing directors relating to the time they were members or partners of Greenhill & Co. Holdings, LLC or its affiliates, and certain tax liabilities of our members that may arise in respect of periods prior to the offering when we were a limited liability company. We may be required to make substantial payments under these indemnification agreements, which could adversely affect our financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements We have made statements under the captions ‘‘Business’’, ‘‘Risk Factors’’, and ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations’’ and in other sections of this Form 10-K that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as ‘‘may’’, ‘‘might’’, ‘‘will’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘predict’’, ‘‘potential’’ or ‘‘continue’’, the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncerta inties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance, based on our growth strategies and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from the results, level of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In particular, you should consider the numerous risks outlined under ‘‘Risk Factors’’. These risks are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Form 10-K may include additional factors which could adversely impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for our management to predict all risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We are under no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this filing to conform our prior statements to actual results or revised expectations. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: • the statements about (i) our expectation that our total compensation and benefits, including that payable to our managing directors, will not exceed 50% of total revenues each year in ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Compensation and Benefits’’ and (ii) our expectation to make certain principal investments and our expectation of revenues from a profit override and from gains on investments of our capital beginning in 2004 in ‘‘Business – Principal Sources of Revenue – Merchant Banking Fund Management’’ and ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources’’; • the statement about our expectation that revenues from our financial advisory business will continue to account for the majority of our revenues in the near to medium-term in ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Overview’’; • the statement about our expectations that we will expand our merchant banking management business in ‘‘Overview – Merchant Banking Fund Management’’; • the statement about new managing directors adding incrementally to our revenue and income growth potential in ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Overview’’; • the statements about our expectations that the profit overrides we earn in our merchant banking management business will or could increase in ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Merchant Banking Fund Management and Other Revenues’’; • the statement about our expectation that operating costs will increase as we grow our business in ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Non-Compensation Expense’’; and 14 Table of Contents • the discussion of our ability to meet liquidity needs in ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources’’. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of the year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Act of 1934. 