Item 1A. Risk Factors We face a variety of risks that are inherent in our business and our industry, including operational, legal and regulatory risks. The following are the known, material risks that could affect our business and our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business We may not be able to profitably deploy our capital. We currently have $916.8 million of cash and liquidity available to us, and we do not have commitments or specific contemplated acquisitions or other uses for all of those funds. Our future growth and profitability will be largely dependent upon our ability to profitably invest our capital in projects and properties that produce commercial quantities of oil and natural gas and generate acceptable returns on investment. We may be unable to identify a sufficient number of suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Moreover, the oil and natural gas exploration and production business is inherently risky and we cannot be certain that the projects and properties in which we invest will enable us to develop and produce oil and natural gas in the quantities or for the costs we anticipate. We cannot be certain that our deployment of capital will produce a profitable return for our stockholders. The volatility of oil and natural gas prices greatly affects our profitability. Our revenues, operating results, profitability, future rate of growth and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties depend primarily upon the prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have been volatile and are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. Any substantial decline in the price of oil and natural gas will likely have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and level of expenditures for the development of our oil and natural gas reserves, and may result in further write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties as a result of our use of the full cost accounting method. Wide fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control, including: • worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and natural gas; • speculation in the price of commodities in the commodity futures market; • weather conditions; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the availability of drilling rigs and completion equipment; • the availability of pipeline capacity; • the price and volume of foreign imports; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions; and • the overall economic environment. 9 Table of Contents These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Oil and natural gas prices could decline to a point where it would be uneconomic for us to sell our oil and natural gas at those prices, which could result in a decision to shut in production until the prices increase. Production costs, also called “lifting costs,” consist of those costs, including certain taxes, incurred in the production and storage of crude oil and natural gas before its removal from the property for sale or transportation. The economic viability of each of our crude oil and natural gas properties is dependent on revenues received from the sale of crude oil and natural gas produced from such property being sufficient to recover the lifting costs incurred on such property. Many of our crude oil properties are in secondary recovery units with relatively high lifting costs per Boe. In the event commodity prices decline to the point where revenues from a property are insufficient to cover lifting costs, royalties and other required payments out of production, we will be required to shut in the affected property until such time, if ever, that prices increase sufficiently to enable us to recover such costs. A decline of oil and natural gas prices or a prolonged period of reduced oil and natural gas prices could result in a decrease in our exploration and development expenditures, which could negatively impact our future production. If oil and natural gas prices decline or reduce to lower levels for a prolonged period of time, we may be unable to continue to fund capital expenditures at historical levels due to the decreased cash flows that will result from such reduced oil and natural gas prices. Additionally, a decline in oil and natural gas prices or a prolonged period of lower oil and natural gas prices could result in a reduction of our borrowing base under our credit agreement, which will further reduce the availability of cash to fund our operations, should we desire to borrow under our credit agreement. As a result, we may have to reduce our capital expenditures in future years. A decrease in our capital expenditures will likely result in a decrease in our production levels. Continued weakness in economic conditions or uncertainty in financial markets may have material adverse impacts on our business that we cannot predict. U.S. and global economies and financial systems have experienced episodes of turmoil and upheaval characterized by extreme volatility in prices of securities, diminished liquidity and credit availability, inability to access capital markets, the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of financial institutions, and continue to be affected by continued high levels of unemployment and an unprecedented level of intervention by the U.S. federal and other governments. Continued weakness in the U.S. or global economies could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. For example: • the demand for oil and natural gas in the U.S. may decline from present levels and may remain at low levels if economic conditions remain weak, and negatively impact our revenues, margins, profitability, operating cash flows, liquidity and financial condition; • the tightening of credit or lack of credit availability to our customers could adversely affect our ability to collect our trade receivables; • our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital for our business, including for exploration and/or development of our reserves; and • our commodity hedging arrangements could become ineffective if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations or seek bankruptcy protection. Our success depends on acquiring or finding additional reserves. Our future success depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Our proved reserves will generally decline as reserves are produced, 10 Table of Contents except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration or development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. To increase reserves and production, we must commence exploratory drilling, undertake other replacement activities or utilize third parties to accomplish these activities. There can be no assurance, however, that we will have sufficient resources to undertake these actions, that our exploratory projects or other replacement activities will result in significant additional reserves or that we will succeed in drilling productive wells at low finding and development costs. Furthermore, although our revenues may increase if prevailing oil and natural gas prices increase significantly, our finding costs for additional reserves could also increase. In accordance with customary industry practice, we rely in part on independent third party service providers to provide most of the services necessary to drill new wells, including drilling rigs and related equipment and services, horizontal drilling equipment and services, trucking services, tubular goods, fracing and completion services and production equipment. The oil and natural gas industry has experienced significant volatility in cost for these services in recent years and this trend is expected to continue into the future. Any future cost increases could significantly increase our development costs and decrease the return possible from drilling and development activities, and possibly render the development of certain proved undeveloped reserves uneconomical. Our exploration and development drilling efforts and the operation of our wells may not be profitable or achieve our targeted returns. Exploration, development, drilling and production activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that commercially productive reservoirs will not be discovered. We plan to invest in property, including undeveloped leasehold acreage, which we believe will result in projects that will add value over time. However, we cannot guarantee that all of our prospects will result in viable projects or that we will not abandon our initial investments. Additionally, we cannot guarantee that the leasehold acreage we acquire will be profitably developed, that new wells drilled by us will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such leasehold acreage or wells. Drilling for oil and natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit after deducting operating and other costs. In addition, wells that are profitable may not achieve our targeted rate of return. Our ability to achieve our target results are dependent upon the current and future market prices for oil and natural gas, costs associated with producing oil and natural gas and our ability to add reserves at an acceptable cost. We significantly rely on 3-D seismic data and other advanced technologies in identifying leasehold acreage prospects and in conducting our exploration activities. The 3-D seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to our acquisition of leasehold acreage or drilling a well whether oil or gas is present or may be produced economically. The use of 3-D seismic data and other technologies also requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies. All of the foregoing factors may affect our ability to achieve our estimated 2012 production and related costs guidance. Many of the emerging resource plays that we have targeted have limited or no production history using the drilling and completion methods that we expect to employ. Accordingly, these operations are subject to more uncertainties than our drilling activities in more established fields and formations and may not meet our expectations for reserves or production. If initially successful, the ultimate success of these drilling and completion strategies and techniques in these new formations will be better evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are better established. In addition, we may not be successful in controlling and reducing our drilling and production costs in order to improve our overall return. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. We cannot predict the cost of drilling and completion, and we may be forced to limit, delay or cancel drilling and completion operations as a result of a variety of factors, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; 11 Table of Contents • equipment failures or accidents and shortages or delays in the availability of oilfield services or drilling rigs and other equipment; • adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes; and • compliance with governmental requirements. The actual quantities and present values of our proved oil and natural gas reserves may be less than we have estimated. This report and other SEC filings by us contain estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves and the estimated future net revenues from those reserves. These estimates are based on various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes, timing of operations, and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. The process involves significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering, and economic data for each reservoir. These estimates are dependent on many variables, and therefore changes often occur as these variables evolve. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. For example, total revisions of our previous reserve estimates decreased proved reserves by 2.2 MMBoe or approximately 9% of our reserves at the beginning of the year. The revisions included a positive increase of 0.9 MMBoe or 4% of the beginning of the year reserves caused by higher oil and gas prices. This positive revision was offset by the downward revision of 1.4 MMBoe caused by the transfer of proved reserves to unproved categories as a result of updated geological and engineering evaluations and changes to the company development plans during 2011, and 1.7 MMBoe of the downward revisions were mostly due to changes in well performance. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, production taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses, and quantities of producible oil and natural gas reserves will most likely vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities of and present values related to proved reserves disclosed by us, and the actual quantities and present values may be less than we have previously estimated. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development activity, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, costs to develop and operate properties, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production on adjacent properties. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 37%, or 7.7 MMBoe, of our estimated proved reserves were proved undeveloped, and approximately 5%, or 1.1 MMBoe, were proved developed non-producing. In order to develop our proved undeveloped reserves, we estimate approximately $87.4 million of capital expenditures will be required. Production revenues from proved developed non-producing reserves will not be realized until sometime in the future and after some investment of capital. Although we have estimated our reserves and the costs associated with these reserves in accordance with industry standards, estimated costs may not be accurate, development may not occur as scheduled and actual results may not occur as estimated. You should not assume that the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows included in this report represent the current market value of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. Management has based the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves on price and cost assumptions required by the SEC, whereas actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. For example, our proved reserves as of December 31, 2011, were estimated using the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price of $96.19 per Bbl of oil (NYMEX West Texas Intermediate settle price) and $4.12 per Mcf of natural gas (Platts Henry Hub spot price). We then adjust these base prices to reflect appropriate basis, quality, and location differentials over that period in estimating our proved reserves. During 2011, our monthly average realized oil prices, excluding the effect of hedging, were as high as $107.75 per Bbl and as low as $85.06 per Bbl. For the same period, our monthly average realized natural gas prices before hedging were as high as $4.36 per Mcf and as low as $3.51 per Mcf. Many other factors will affect actual future net cash flows, including: 12 Table of Contents • Amount and timing of actual production; • Supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • Curtailments or increases in consumption by oil purchasers and natural gas pipelines; and • Changes in government regulations or taxes. The timing of production from oil and natural gas properties and of related expenses affects the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value used in calculating standardized measure. Our actual future net cash flows could be less than the estimated future net cash flows for purposes of computing standardized measure. In addition, the ten percent discount factor required by the SEC to be used to calculate standardized measure for reporting purposes is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor given actual interest rates, costs of capital, and other risks to which our business and the oil and natural gas industry in general are subject. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of key personnel. Our success will depend in large measure on the abilities, expertise and judgment of our management and other personnel in conducting our business. We are in the process of building our management team, and are therefore particularly dependent upon Floyd C. Wilson, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, and Mark J. Mize, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer. The loss of Mr. Wilson, Mr. Mize or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our company. We do not maintain key-man insurance on the life of Mr. Wilson or Mr. Mize. The terms of Mr. Wilson’s Executive Retention Agreement may limit our growth opportunities prior to November 1, 2012. Floyd C. Wilson, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, is subject to certain noncompetition and nonsolicitation provisions with Petrohawk Energy Corporation. As a result of his ownership status and director and officer positions with us, these noncompetition provisions will generally prohibit us from pursuing any oil and gas operations within a 50-mile radius of any oil and gas operations of BHP Billiton Petroleum (North America) Inc. (the successor to Petrohawk) or its affiliates, prior to November 1, 2012. The terms of the Executive Retention Agreement also prohibit Mr. Wilson, and as a result, us, from soliciting certain specified customers, employees and contractors of BHP Billiton prior to November 1, 2012. These noncompetition provisions may limit our ability to pursue advantageous acquisition or leasing opportunities and may limit our ability to attract and retain executive-level management and technical, financial and field personnel in the near future, which may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Failure to attract and retain skilled managers and other personnel could limit growth. Our business plan contemplates a significant increase in the size and scope of our operations, and we will have to expand our workforce to support this anticipated growth. Our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled executive-level management and technical, financial and field personnel having experience in the oil and natural gas exploration and production business. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we can give no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, training and retaining such personnel. Our inability to hire an adequate number of additional qualified personnel may lead to higher recruiting, relocation and compensation costs for such personnel. If we fail to attract, train and retain key personnel, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents The continued tightness in the financial and credit markets may expose us to counterparty risk with respect to our sales of oil and natural gas. We sell our crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids to a variety of purchasers. Some of these parties may not be as creditworthy as we are and may experience liquidity problems. Nonperformance by a trade creditor could result in our incurring losses. Operating hazards and uninsured risks may result in substantial losses. Our operations are subject to all of the hazards and operating risks inherent in drilling for, and the production of, oil and natural gas, including the risk of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards such as oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases. The occurrence of any of these events could result in substantial losses to us due to injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. There can be no assurance that any insurance will be adequate to cover any losses or liabilities. We cannot predict the continued availability of insurance, or its availability at premium levels that justify its purchase. In addition, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by previous owners of properties purchased by us, which liabilities would not be covered by our insurance. Title to properties in which we own or acquire an interest may be impaired by title defects. We generally obtain title opinions on significant properties that we drill or acquire. However, we can provide no assurance that we will not suffer a monetary loss from title defects or title failure. Additionally, we are actively pursuing acquisitions of undeveloped acreage, which normally presents a greater risk of title defects than developed acreage. Generally, under the terms of the operating agreements affecting our properties, any monetary loss is borne by all parties to any such agreement in proportion to their interests in the property. If there are any title defects or defects in assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which we hold or acquire an interest, we will suffer a financial loss. We will be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions, and the integration of significant acquisitions may be difficult. Our business plan contemplates significant acquisitions of reserves, properties, prospects and leaseholds and other strategic transactions that appear to fit within our overall business strategy, which may include the acquisition of asset packages of producing properties or existing companies or businesses operating in our industry. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including: • recoverable reserves; • future oil and natural gas prices and their appropriate differentials; • development and operating costs; and • potential environmental and other liabilities. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and potential recoverable reserves. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an “as is” basis. 14 Table of Contents Significant acquisitions of existing companies or businesses and other strategic transactions may involve additional risks, including: • diversion of our management’s attention to evaluating, negotiating and integrating significant acquisitions and strategic transactions; • the challenge and cost of integrating acquired operations, information management and other technology systems and business cultures with our own while carrying on our ongoing business; • difficulty associated with coordinating geographically separate organizations; and • the challenge of attracting and retaining personnel associated with acquired operations. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business. If our senior management is not able to manage the integration process effectively, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could be materially and adversely affected. The Electra/Burkburnett Fields occasionally experience saline water discharges as a result of unplugged or inadequately plugged wells. The Electra/Burkburnett Fields have been the subject of extensive exploration and production activities for nearly a century. As a result, there are numerous inactive wellbores throughout the fields. Many may not have been properly plugged and abandoned according to modern standards. As a consequence, waterflood operations occasionally cause “breakouts” of brine or produced water when the injected water moves up the casing of such a well and emerges at the surface. When these breakouts have been detected in the past, the incident has been reported to the local office of the Texas Railroad Commission, a berm has been constructed to contain the effluent, which has been recovered and properly disposed of in an injection well, the source of the breakout is located, and mitigation measures have been implemented that usually involve plugging or replugging the discharging conduit. We may incur costs to respond to future breakouts in the Electra/Burkburnett Fields, and we may be subject to federal or state enforcement action if such breakouts enter surface waters before they can be detected and captured. Our operations are subject to various governmental regulations that require compliance that can be burdensome and expensive. Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local governmental regulations that may be changed from time to time in response to economic and political conditions. Matters subject to regulation include discharge from drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity to conserve supplies of oil and natural gas. In addition, the production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and natural gas, by-products thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with oil and natural gas operations are subject to regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment. These laws and regulations have continually imposed increasingly strict requirements for water and air pollution control and solid waste management, and compliance with these laws may cause delays in the additional drilling and development of our properties. Significant expenditures may be required to comply with governmental laws and regulations applicable to us. We believe the trend of more expansive and stricter environmental legislation and regulations will continue. While historically we have not experienced any material adverse effect from regulatory delays, there can be no assurance that such delays will not occur in the future. 15 Table of Contents Unusual weather patterns or natural disasters, whether due to climate change or otherwise, could negatively impact our financial condition. Our business depends, in part, on normal weather patterns across the United States. Natural gas demand and prices are particularly susceptible to seasonal weather trends. Warmer than usual winters can result in reduced demand and high season-end storage volumes, which can depress prices. In addition, because a majority of our properties are located in Texas, Louisiana and Oklahoma, our operations are constantly at risk of extreme adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes and tornadoes. Any unusual or prolonged adverse weather patterns in our areas of operations or markets, whether due to climate change or otherwise, could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and cash flow. In addition, our business, financial condition and cash flow could be adversely affected if the businesses of our key vendors, purchasers, contractors, suppliers or transportation service providers were disrupted due to severe weather, such as hurricanes or floods, whether due to climate change or otherwise. Climate change and government laws and regulations related to climate change could negatively impact our financial condition. In addition to other climate-related risks set forth in this “Risk Factors” section, we are and will be, directly and indirectly, subject to the effects of climate change and may, directly or indirectly, be affected by government laws and regulations related to climate change. We cannot predict with any degree of certainty what effect, if any, possible climate change and new and developing government laws and regulations related to climate change will have on our operations, whether directly or indirectly. While we believe that it is difficult to assess the timing and effect of climate change and pending legislation and regulation related to climate change on our business, we believe that climate change and government laws and regulations related to climate change may affect, directly or indirectly, (i) the cost of the equipment and services we purchase, (ii) our ability to continue to operate as we have in the past, including drilling, completion and operating methods, (iii) the timeliness of delivery of the materials and services we need and the cost of transportation paid by us and our vendors and other providers of services, (iv) insurance premiums, deductibles and the availability of coverage, and (v) the cost of utility services, particularly electricity, in connection with the operation of our properties. In addition, climate change may increase the likelihood of property damage and the disruption of our operations, especially in coastal states. As a result, our financial condition could be negatively impacted by significant climate change and related governmental regulation, and that impact could be material. Regulation and recent court decisions related to greenhouse gas emissions could have an adverse effect on our operations and demand for oil and natural gas. The U.S. Congress has previously considered legislation to reduce emissions of “greenhouse gases,” including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide among others, which some studies have suggested may be contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere. However, legislation to reduce greenhouse gases appears less likely in the near term. As a result, near term regulation of greenhouse gases, if any, is more likely to come from regulatory action by EPA or by the several states that have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. As a result of the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision on April 2, 2007 in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA, 549 U.S. 497 (2007), finding that greenhouse gases fall within the Clean Air Act (“CAA”) definition of “air pollutant,” the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) was required to determine whether emissions of greenhouse gases “endanger” public health or welfare. As a result, the EPA has adopted regulations requiring Clean Air Act (“CAA”) permitting of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary and mobile sources. On December 15, 2009, EPA promulgated its final rule, “Endangerment and Cause or Contribute Findings for Greenhouse Gases Under Section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act,” finding that (i) the current and projected emissions of six key well-mixed greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide and methane, constitute a threat to public health and welfare, and (ii) the combined emissions from motor vehicles cause and contribute to the 16 Table of Contents climate change problem which threatens public health and welfare. These findings did not themselves impose any requirements on industry or other entities, but were a prerequisite to EPA’s adoption of greenhouse gas emission standards for motor vehicles. On May 7, 2010, EPA and the Department of Transportation’s National Highway Traffic and Safety Administration, or NHTSA, promulgated a final action establishing a national program providing new standards for certain motor vehicles to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve fuel economy, with EPA adopting the standards under the CAA, and NHTSA adopting the standards as Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards under the Energy Policy and Conservation Act. While these motor vehicle regulations do not directly impact oil and natural gas production operations, the result of these actions are significant in that they automatically trigger application of certain CAA permit programs for stationary greenhouse gas emissions sources, potentially including oil and natural gas production operations. These programs, the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) and Title V Operating Permit programs, have historically applied to sources of air pollutants “subject to regulation” with emissions exceeding 100 and 250 tons per year. To avoid the broad impact of such low permitting thresholds for greenhouse gas emission sources, on June 3, 2010, EPA promulgated its “Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule,” to add new higher thresholds of 75,000 tons per year carbon dioxide equivalents (“CO 2 e”) for modifications and 100,000 tons per year CO 2 e for new sources. Additionally, EPA has promulgated separate regulations requiring greenhouse gas emission reporting from certain industry sectors, including natural gas production. On October 30, 2009, EPA promulgated a final mandatory greenhouse gas reporting rule which will assist EPA in developing policy approaches to greenhouse gas regulation. This reporting rule became effective on December 29, 2009. On November 30, 2010, EPA promulgated additional mandatory greenhouse gas reporting rules that apply specifically to oil and natural gas production for implementation in 2011. Though under review by the D.C. Circuit, EPA’s rules promulgated thus far have survived petitions for stay, and are currently final and effective, and will remain so unless vacated or remanded by the court, or unless Congress adopts legislation preempting EPA’s regulatory authority to address greenhouse gases under the CAA. EPA has also proposed new air emission technology standards specifically applicable to the oil and natural gas sector which enlarge the scope of regulated equipment. These proposed rules, if promulgated, will add another layer of additional indirect GHG regulation. Beyond legislative and regulatory developments, there have been several recent court cases impacting this area of risk related to greenhouse gas emissions. The final decisions in these cases may expose us to similar litigation risk. The decisions in these cases may expose us, as potentially an emitter of significant direct and indirect emission sources of greenhouse gases, to similar litigation risk. International treaties. Other nations have already agreed to regulate emissions of greenhouse gases pursuant to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, also known as the “Kyoto Protocol,” an international treaty pursuant to which participating countries (not including the United States) agreed to reduce their emissions of greenhouse gases to below 1990 levels by 2012. Though the 16th meeting of the Council of the Parties in Mexico in November and December 2010 did not produce a legally binding final agreement, international negotiations continue, with the participation of the United States. International developments, passage of state or federal climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives, the implementation of regulations by EPA and analogous state agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business, or further development of case law allowing claims based upon greenhouse gas emissions, could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition as a result of material increases in operating and production costs and litigation expense due to expenses associated with monitoring, reporting, permitting and controlling greenhouse gas emissions or litigating claims related to emissions of greenhouse gases, and the demand for oil and natural gas and increase the costs of our operations. 17 Table of Contents Potential legislative and regulatory actions relating to Federal income taxation could increase our costs, reduce our revenue and cash flow from oil and natural gas sales, reduce our liquidity or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business. In 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012 the administration of President Obama made budget proposals which, if enacted into law by Congress, would potentially increase and accelerate the payment of federal income taxes by independent producers of oil and natural gas. Proposals have included, but have not been limited to, repealing the enhanced oil recovery credit, repealing the credit for oil and gas produced from marginal wells, repealing the expensing of intangible drilling costs, repealing the deduction for the cost of qualified tertiary expenses, repealing the exception to the passive loss limitation for working interests in oil and natural gas properties, repealing the percentage depletion allowance, repealing the manufacturing tax deduction for oil and natural gas companies, and increasing the amortization period of geological and geophysical expenses. In 2009, 2010, and 2011, legislation which would have implemented the proposed changes was introduced but not enacted. It is unclear whether legislation supporting any of the above described proposals, or designed to accomplish similar objectives, will be introduced or, if introduced, would be enacted into law or, if enacted, how soon resulting changes would become effective. However, the passage of any legislation designed to implement changes in the U.S. federal income tax laws similar to the changes included in the budget proposals offered by the White House in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 could eliminate certain tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such changes (i) could make it more costly for us to explore for and develop our oil and natural gas resources and (ii) could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. We utilize hydraulic fracturing as a means to enhance the productive capability of our wells. Congress has previously considered legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. Sponsors of bills previously proposed before the Senate and House of Representatives have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. That proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, these bills, if adopted, could repeal the exemptions for hydraulic fracturing from the Safe Drinking Water Act. These legislative efforts have halted while EPA studies the issue of hydraulic fracturing. In 2010, EPA initiated a Hydraulic Fracturing Research Study to address concerns that hydraulic fracturing may affect the safety of drinking water. As part of that process, EPA requested and received information from the major fracturing service providers regarding the chemical composition of fluids, standard operating procedures and the sites where they engage in hydraulic fracturing. In February 2011, EPA released its Draft Plan to Study the Potential Impacts of Hydraulic Fracturing on Drinking Water Resources, proposing to study the lifecycle of hydraulic fracturing fluid and providing a comprehensive list of chemicals identified in fracturing fluid and flowback/produced water. These developments, as well as increased scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing activities by state authorities, may result in additional levels of regulation or level of complexity with respect to existing regulation at the federal and state levels that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing, which could result in limiting the productive capability of future wells in which we likely would utilize hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. Our method of accounting for investments in oil and natural gas properties may result in a further impairment of asset value, which could affect our stockholder equity and net profit or loss. We use the full cost method of accounting for our investment in oil and natural gas properties. Under the full cost method of accounting, all costs of acquisition, exploration and development of oil and natural gas 18 Table of Contents reserves are capitalized into a “full cost pool.” Capitalized costs in the pool are amortized and charged to operations using the units-of-production method based on the ratio of current production to total proved oil and natural gas reserves. To the extent that such capitalized costs, net of amortization, exceed the after tax present value of estimated future net revenues from our proved oil and natural gas reserves (using a 10% discount rate) at any reporting date, such excess costs are charged to operations. We incurred no impairment charge for 2011 and 2010. In 2009, we recorded a $47.6 million charge for the impairment of our oil and natural gas properties. Any writedowns are not reversible at a later date, even if the present value of our proved oil and natural gas reserves increases as a result of an increase in oil or natural gas prices. Further price declines could result in additional impairments of asset value. We face intensive competition in our industry. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We compete with major and independent oil and natural gas companies, many of whom have financial and other resources substantially in excess of those available to us. These competitors may be better positioned to take advantage of industry opportunities and to withstand changes affecting the industry, such as fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices and production, the availability of alternative energy sources and the application of government regulation. Our use of derivative contracts is subject to risks that our counterparties may default on their contractual obligations to us and may cause us to forego additional future profits or result in our making cash payments. Our use of derivative contracts could have the effect of reducing our revenues and the value of our common stock. To reduce our exposure to changes in the prices of oil and natural gas, we have entered into and will in the future enter into derivative contracts for a portion of our oil and natural gas production. Our derivative contracts are subject to mark-to-market accounting treatment, which means that the change in the fair market value of these instruments is reported as a non-cash item in our statement of operations each quarter, which typically result in significant variability in our net income. Derivative contracts expose us to the risk of financial loss and may limit our ability to benefit from increases in oil and natural gas prices in some circumstances, including the following: • the counterparty to the derivative contract may default on its contractual obligations to us; • there is a widening of the price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the derivative contract; or • our production is less than our hedged volumes. The ultimate settlement amount of these unrealized derivative contracts is dependent on future commodity prices. We may incur significant unrealized losses in the future from our use of derivative contracts to the extent market prices increase and our derivatives contracts remain in place. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Commodity Price Risk” appearing elsewhere in this report. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make payments on borrowings under our credit agreement or other indebtedness we may incur and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash from operations and other resources in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, including the prices that we receive for oil and natural gas. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If 19 Table of Contents our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. None of these remedies may, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt in the future, which could cause us to default on our obligations and could impair our liquidity. Restrictive debt covenants could limit our growth and our ability to finance our operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. Our credit agreement contains a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • dispose of assets; • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness and issue certain types of preferred stock; • pay dividends on our capital stock; • create liens on our assets; • enter into sale or leaseback transactions; • enter into specified investments or acquisitions; • repurchase, redeem or retire our capital stock or subordinated debt; • merge or consolidate, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries; • engage in specified transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates; or • pursue other corporate activities. We may be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under our credit agreement. Also, our credit agreement requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to comply with these ratios and financial condition tests may be affected by events beyond our control and, as a result, we may be unable to meet these ratios and financial condition tests. These financial ratio restrictions and financial condition tests could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. A decline in oil and natural gas prices, or a prolonged period of oil and natural gas prices at lower levels, could eventually result in our failing to meet one or more of the financial covenants under our credit agreement, which could require us to refinance or amend the agreement resulting in the payment of consent fees or higher interest rates, or require us to raise additional capital at an inopportune time or on terms not favorable to us. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or financial condition tests could result in a default under our credit agreement. A default under our credit agreement, if not cured or waived, could result in acceleration of all indebtedness outstanding under our credit agreement. The accelerated debt would become immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may be unable to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. 20 Table of Contents We may be classified as an inadvertent investment company if we are unable to reinvest our cash. We are not engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting, or trading in securities, and we do not hold ourselves out as being engaged in those activities. However, under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “1940 Act”), a company may be classified as an “inadvertent investment company” under section 3(a)(1)(C) of the 1940 Act if (absent an available exemption or exclusion under the 1940 Act categories) the value of investment securities is more than 40% of its total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items). Total asset value includes amounts for assets recorded on the financial statements, as well as additional amounts which the board of directors believes reflect the fair value of those assets. Classification as an investment company would require prompt registration with the SEC as an investment company under the 1940 Act. If an investment company, even an inadvertent one, fails to register, it would have to stop conducting almost all business, and its contracts would become voidable. Registration is time consuming and restrictive; we would be very constrained in the kind of business we could conduct as a registered investment company. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We do not currently pay dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the future. We intend to retain any future earnings to fund our operations; therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Also, our credit agreement does not permit us to pay dividends on our common stock. Substantial stock ownership by our affiliates may limit the ability of our non-affiliate stockholders to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. Halcón Resources, LLC owns approximately 74% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, it will have significant influence in the election of our directors and, therefore, our policies and direction. This concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. You may experience dilution of your ownership interests due to the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We may in the future issue our previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We are currently authorized to issue approximately 336.7 million shares of common stock and 1.0 million shares of preferred stock with such designations, preferences and rights as determined by our board of directors. As of the date of this report, after giving effect to the securities issued in the recapitalization, we had outstanding approximately 99.4 million shares of common stock. Additionally, we have issued shares of preferred stock convertible into approximately 44.4 million shares of common stock and, in the recapitalization, we issued warrants exercisable for approximately 36.7 million shares of common stock and a convertible note that is convertible into approximately 61.1 million shares of common stock. We have also reserved an additional 1.7 million shares for future issuance to our directors, officers and employees as restricted stock or stock option awards pursuant to our 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The potential issuance of such additional shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with future acquisitions, future issuances of our securities for capital raising purposes or for other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents The trading price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of shares of our common stock has from time to time fluctuated widely and in the future may be subject to similar fluctuations. The trading price may be affected by a number of factors including the risk factors set forth in this report, as well as our operating results, financial condition, drilling activities and general conditions in the oil and natural gas exploration and development industry, the economy, the securities markets and other events. In addition, we have agreed to file a registration statement to permit the public resale of the shares of common stock acquired, or that may be acquired, by Halcón Resources, LLC and the shares of common stock underlying the convertible preferred stock sold on March 5, 2012. The influx of such a substantial number of shares into the public market could have a significant negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In recent years broad stock market indices, in general, and smaller capitalization companies, in particular, have experienced substantial price fluctuations. In a volatile market, we may experience wide fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. These fluctuations may have an extremely negative effect on the market price of our common stock. A delay in the automatic conversion of our outstanding 8% automatically convertible preferred stock into common stock or in the effectiveness of the registration statement for the resale of the common stock into which the preferred stock is convertible will trigger significant payment obligations which we may be unable to satisfy. Each share of our outstanding preferred stock is automatically convertible into 10,000 shares of common stock, subject to certain adjustments, on the 20th calendar day after we mail a definitive information statement to our stockholders notifying them that our majority stockholder has consented to the issuance of common stock upon conversion of the preferred stock. If the preferred stock has not been converted into common stock on or before May 31, 2012, then the preferred stock will accrue dividends from the date of initial issuance at a rate of 8% per annum until such time as it has converted. In addition, we are required to file a registration statement to register for resale the common stock into which the preferred stock is convertible and to obtain its effectiveness within 120 days of the date of issuance of the preferred stock or we will become liable, for so long as such delay continues, to pay the holders of the preferred stock (or the common stock issued upon conversion thereof) a cash penalty of 0.0165% per day of the price at which the preferred stock was sold, if the preferred stock has not converted into common stock, and a cash penalty of 0.0333% of the price at which the preferred stock was sold, if the preferred stock has converted into common stock. In addition, we will be required to redeem all of the outstanding preferred stock if it has not converted into common stock on or before February 9, 2018. No assurance can be given that we would have sufficient cash to satisfy the preferred stock quarterly cash dividend payments, registration penalties or redemption obligations in the event that the automatic conversion of the preferred stock or registration of the common stock into which it is convertible is delayed. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control of our company. Delaware law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include the following provisions: • Classified Board of Directors. Our board of directors is divided into three classes with staggered terms of office of three years each. The classification and staggered terms of office of our directors make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board of directors. At least two annual meetings of stockholders, instead of one, generally would be required to effect a change in a majority of the board of directors. 22 Table of Contents • Removal of Directors. Under Delaware law, directors that serve on a classified board, such as our directors, may be removed only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote. • Number of Directors, Board Vacancies, Term of Office. Our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws provide that only the board of directors may set the number of directors. We have elected to be subject to certain provisions of Delaware law which vest in the board of directors the exclusive right, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, to fill vacancies on the board even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum. When effected, these provisions of Delaware law, which are applicable even if other provisions of Delaware law or the charter or bylaws provide to the contrary, also provide that any director elected to fill a vacancy shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred, rather than the next annual meeting of stockholders as would otherwise be the case, and until his or her successor is elected and qualifies. • Advance Notice Provisions for Stockholder Nominations and Proposals. Our bylaws require advance written notice for stockholders to nominate persons for election as directors at, or to bring other business before, any meeting of stockholders. This bylaw provision limits the ability of stockholders to make nominations of persons for election as directors or to introduce other proposals unless we are notified in a timely manner prior to the meeting. • Amending the Bylaws. Our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to adopt, alter or repeal any provision of the bylaws or to make new bylaws. Our bylaws also may be amended by the affirmative vote of our stockholders. • Authorized but Unissued Shares. Under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has authority to cause the issuance of preferred stock from time to time in one or more series and to establish the terms, preferences and rights of any such series of preferred stock, all without approval of our stockholders. Nothing in our certificate of incorporation precludes future issuances without stockholder approval of the authorized but unissued shares of our common stock. We could issue shares of preferred stock which could be entitled to dividend, liquidation and other special rights and preferences not shared by holders of our common stock or which could have anti-takeover effects. We are authorized to issue up to 1.0 million shares of preferred stock, which shares may be issued from time to time in one or more series as our board of directors, by resolution or resolutions, may from time to time determine. The voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, if any, of each such series of our preferred stock may differ from those of any and all other series of preferred stock at any time outstanding, and, subject to certain limitations of our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law, our board of directors may fix or alter, by resolution or resolutions, the designation, number, voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of each such series of our preferred stock. The issuance of any such preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and, therefore, could reduce the value of our common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell our assets to, a third party. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock could discourage, delay or prevent a takeover of us, thereby preserving our control by the current stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents 