ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to many factors that could materially adversely affect our future performance and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Those risk factors are outlined below. • Competition could adversely affect our operating results. We face intense competition in certain of the product lines and markets in which we compete. We expect that our competitors will develop and introduce new and enhanced products, which could cause a decline in the market acceptance of certain products we manufacture. In addition, as a result of price competition, we may be compelled to reduce the prices for some of our products, which could adversely affect our margins and profitability. Competitive pressures can also result in the loss of major customers. Our inability to compete successfully could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows in any given period. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater financial, technological, and other resources than we have. Some of our competitors may also be able to maintain greater operating and financial flexibility than we are able to maintain. As a result, these competitors may be able to better withstand changes in conditions within our industry, changes in the prices for raw materials, and changes in general economic conditions. • Sudden or sharp raw materials price increases may adversely affect our profit margins. We utilize a variety of raw materials in the manufacture of our products, including base oil, polyisobutylene, maleic anhydride, olefin copolymers, antioxidants, alcohols, and methacrylates. Our profitability is sensitive to changes in the costs of these materials caused by changes in supply, demand or other market conditions, over which we have little or no control. Political and economic conditions in the Middle East and Latin America have caused, and may continue to cause, the cost of our raw materials to fluctuate. War, armed hostilities, terrorist acts, civil unrest, or other incidents may also cause a sudden or sharp increase in the cost of our raw materials. We cannot assure you that we will be able to pass on to our customers any future increases in raw material costs in the form of price increases for our products. • Availability of raw materials and transportation systems could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The chemical industry can experience some tightness of supply of certain materials or transportation systems. Any significant disruption in supply could affect our ability to obtain raw materials or transportation systems. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations. • Our reliance on a small number of significant customers may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our principal customers are major multinational oil companies. The oil industry is characterized by the concentration of a few large participants as a result of consolidation. The loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in purchases by a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flow. • Our customers are concentrated in the lubricant and fuel industries and, as a result, our reliance on that industry is significant. Most of our customers are primarily engaged in the fuel and lubricant industries. This concentration of customers affects our overall risk profile, since our customers will be similarly affected by changes in economic, geopolitical, and industry conditions. Many factors affect the level of our customers’ spending on our products, including, among others, general business conditions, changes in technology, interest rates, gasoline prices, and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. A sudden or 13 Table of Contents protracted downturn in these industries could adversely affect the buying power and purchases by our customers. • We may be unable to respond effectively to technological changes in our industry. Our future business success will depend upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, develop and market products and applications that meet changing customer needs, and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Our industry is characterized by frequent changes in industry performance standards, which affect the amount and timing of our research and development costs and other technology-related costs. As a result, the life cycle of our products is often hard to predict. Further, technological changes in some or all of our customers’ products or processes may make our products obsolete. Any inability to anticipate, respond to, or utilize changing technologies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flow in any given period. • We may not be able to complete future acquisitions or successfully integrate future acquisitions into our business, which could result in unanticipated expenses and losses. As part of our business growth strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions and joint venture opportunities. Our ability to implement this component of our growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition or joint venture candidates and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. The expense incurred in completing acquisitions or entering into joint ventures, the time it takes to integrate an acquisition, or our failure to integrate businesses successfully, could result in unanticipated expenses and losses. Furthermore, we may not be able to realize any of the anticipated benefits from acquisitions or joint ventures. The process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. • Several of our products are produced solely at one facility, and a significant disruption or disaster at such a facility could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Several of the products we sell are produced only in one location. We are dependent upon the continued safe operation of these production facilities. These production facilities are subject to various hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage, and transportation of chemical materials and products, including leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, unscheduled downtime, and environmental hazards. Some of our products involve the manufacture and handling of a variety of reactive, explosive, and flammable materials. Many of these hazards could cause a disruption in the production of our products. We cannot assure you that these facilities will not experience these types of hazards and disruptions in the future or that these incidents will not result in production delays or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows in any given period. • We face risks related to our foreign operations that may negatively affect our business. In 2008, net sales to customers outside of the United States accounted for approximately 61% of total net sales. We do business in all major regions of the world, some of which do not have stable economies or governments. In particular, we sell and market products in countries experiencing political and economic instability in the Middle East, Asia Pacific, and Latin America. Our international operations are subject to international business risks, including unsettled political conditions, expropriation, import and export restrictions, increases in royalties, exchange controls, national and regional labor strikes, taxes, government royalties, inflationary economies and currency exchange rate fluctuations, and changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based 14 Table of Contents companies (such as restrictions on repatriation of earnings or proceeds from liquidated assets of foreign subsidiaries). The occurrence of any one or a combination of these factors may increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our business. • We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We conduct our business in the local currency of most of the countries in which we operate. The financial condition and results of operations of our foreign operating subsidiaries are reported in the relevant local currency and then translated to U.S. Dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Changes in exchange rates between these foreign currencies and the U.S. Dollar will affect the recorded levels of our assets and liabilities as foreign assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. Dollars for presentation in our financial statements, as well as our net sales, cost of goods sold, and operating margins. The primary foreign currencies in which we have exchange rate fluctuation exposure are the European Union Euro, British Pound Sterling, Japanese Yen, and Canadian Dollar. Exchange rates between these currencies and U.S. Dollars have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may do so in the future. • Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our future performance and growth. Protection of our proprietary processes, methods, compounds, and other technologies is important to our business. We depend upon our ability to develop and protect our intellectual property rights to distinguish our products from those of our competitors. Failure to protect our existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies or having to pay other companies for infringing on their intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark, and copyright law, as well as judicial enforcement, to protect such technologies. We currently own approximately 1,500 issued and pending U.S. and foreign patents. Some of these patents are licensed to others. In addition, we have acquired the rights under patents and inventions of others through licenses or otherwise. We have developed, and may in the future develop, technologies with universities or other academic institutions, or with the use of government funding. In such cases, the academic institution or the government may retain certain rights to the developed intellectual property. We also own several hundred trademark and service mark registrations throughout the world for our marks, including NewMarket®, Afton Chemical®, Ethyl®, HiTEC®, TecGARD®, GREENBURN® BioTEC®, and mmt®, as well as pending trademark and service mark applications, including Axcel™. In the event that we are unable to continue using certain of our marks, we may be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in the loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertise and market brands. In particular, the loss of our HiTEC® mark would have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot assure you that the measures taken by us to protect these assets and rights will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing expertise or that adequate remedies will be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or manufacturing expertise. We cannot assure you that any of our intellectual property rights will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or rendered unenforceable. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any pending patent application filed by us will result in an issued patent, or if patents are issued to us, that those patents will provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. The failure of our patents or other measures to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing expertise, methods, and compounds could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flow. We could face patent infringement claims from our competitors or others alleging that our processes or products infringe on their proprietary technologies. If we were found to be infringing on the proprietary technology of others, we may be liable for damages, and we may be required to change our processes, 15 Table of Contents to redesign our products partially or completely, to pay to use the technology of others or to stop using certain technologies or producing the infringing product entirely. Even if we ultimately prevail in an infringement suit, the existence of the suit could prompt customers to switch to products that are not the subject of infringement suits. We may not prevail in any intellectual property litigation and such litigation may result in significant legal costs or otherwise impede our ability to produce and distribute key products. • Our business is subject to government regulation and could be adversely affected by future governmental regulation. We are subject to regulation by local, state, federal, and foreign governmental authorities. In some circumstances, before we may sell certain products, these authorities must approve these products, our manufacturing processes, and facilities. We are also subject to ongoing reviews of our products, manufacturing processes, and facilities by governmental authorities. In order to obtain regulatory approval of certain new products, we must, among other things, demonstrate to the relevant authority that the product is safe and effective for its intended uses and that we are capable of manufacturing the product in accordance with current regulations. The process of seeking approvals can be costly, time consuming, and subject to unanticipated and significant delays. There can be no assurance that approvals will be granted to us on a timely basis, or at all. Any delay in obtaining, or any failure to obtain or maintain, these approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new products and to generate net sales from those products. New laws and regulations, including climate change regulations, may be introduced in the future that could result in additional compliance costs, seizures, confiscation, recall, or monetary fines, any of which could prevent or inhibit the development, distribution, and sale of our products. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, and recalls or seizures, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our business and our customers are subject to significant new regulations under the European Commission’s Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (REACH) regulation. REACH became effective on June 1, 2007. It imposes obligations on European Union manufacturers and importers of chemicals and other products into the European Union to compile and file comprehensive reports, including testing data, on each chemical substance, perform chemical safety assessments, and obtain pre-market authorization with respect to certain substances of particularly high concern. The new regulation imposes significant additional burdens on chemical producers and importers, and, to a lesser extent, downstream users of chemical substances and preparations. Our manufacturing presence and sales activities in the European Union will likely require us to incur significant additional compliance costs. • Political, economic, and regulatory factors concerning one of our products, mmt®, could adversely affect our sales of mmt®. The EPA studied mmt® and determined that it does not cause or contribute to the failure of vehicle emission systems. The Canadian government has made similar findings. However, the EPA is requiring additional testing to fill some data gaps, including potential risks to public health, and a change in current determinations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, certain industry groups are urging greater regulation of all metal-based gasoline additives, including mmt®. In 2002, the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers (AAM) issued a fleet test report on mmt® based on tests conducted by the AAM, the Association of International Automobile Manufacturers, and the Canadian Vehicle Manufacturers’ Association. The report alleges that mmt® significantly raises vehicle emissions, increases fuel emissions, increases fuel consumption, and impairs the proper operation of vehicle emission control systems. In December 2003, the government of Canada released its “Proposed Framework for an Independent Third-Party Review of New Information on the Effects of 16 Table of Contents mmt® Vehicle Emissions.” In its proposal, the Canadian government provided no timetable for the commencement or completion of the review. Substantially all of our customers in Canada have suspended the use of mmt®, pending the results of the government of Canada-sponsored independent third-party review. To date, the government of Canada has not initiated the review. We expect that the European Union will also review all metal-based petroleum additives, including mmt®, for their impact on pollution abatement technology. Increased government regulation of mmt®, if it occurs, or additional studies evaluating mmt®, even if government regulation does not occur, could have a material adverse effect on our sales of that product. • Legal proceedings and other claims could impose substantial costs on us. We are involved in numerous administrative and legal proceedings that result from, and are incidental to, the conduct of our business. From time to time, these proceedings involve environmental, product liability, TEL, premises asbestos liability, and other matters. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” We have insurance coverage that we believe would be available to mitigate potential damages in many of these proceedings. However, there is no assurance that our available insurance will cover these claims, that our insurers will not challenge coverage for certain claims, or that final damage awards will not exceed our available insurance coverage. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows in any given period. • Environmental matters could have a substantial negative impact on our results of operations. As a manufacturer and distributor of chemical products, we are generally subject to extensive local, state, federal, and foreign environmental, safety, and health laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to land and water, the generation, handling, treatment, and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials, and remediation of contaminated soil, surface, and ground water. Our operations entail the risk of violations of those laws and regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. We believe that we comply in all material respects with laws, regulations, statutes, and ordinances protecting the environment, including those related to the discharge of materials. However, we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with all of these requirements. In addition, these requirements, and the enforcement or interpretation of these requirements, may become more stringent in the future. Although we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with any such requirements, the costs could be material. Non-compliance could subject us to material liabilities, such as government fines, damages arising from third-party lawsuits, or the suspension and potential cessation of non-compliant operations. We may also be required to make significant site or operational modifications at substantial cost. Future developments could also restrict or eliminate the use of or require us to make modifications to our products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows in any given period. At any given time, we are involved in claims, litigation, administrative proceedings, and investigations of various types in a number of jurisdictions involving potential environmental liabilities, including clean-up costs associated with waste disposal sites, natural resource damages, property damage, and personal injury. We cannot assure you that the resolution of these environmental matters will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows in any given period. There may be environmental problems associated with our properties of which we are unaware. Some of our properties contain, or may have contained in the past, on-site facilities or underground tanks for the storage of chemicals, hazardous materials, and waste products that could create a potential for release of hazardous substances or contamination of the environment. The discovery of environmental liabilities attached to our properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 17 Table of Contents We may also face liability arising from current or future claims alleging personal injury, product liability, property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances, such as premises asbestos, at or from our facilities. We may also face liability for personal injury, product liability, property damage, natural resource damage, or clean-up costs for the alleged migration of contaminants or hazardous substances from our facilities or for future accidents or spills. A significant increase in the number or success of these claims could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. For further discussion of some related claims, see Item 1, “Business—Environmental.” The ultimate costs and timing of environmental liabilities are difficult to predict. Liability under environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. A liable party could be held responsible for all costs at a site, whether currently or formerly owned or operated regardless of fault, knowledge, timing of the contamination, cause of the contamination, percentage of contribution to the contamination, or the legality of the original disposal. We could incur significant costs, including clean-up costs, natural resource damages, civil or criminal fines and sanctions, and third-party claims, as a result of past or future violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. • We have been identified, and in the future may be identified, as a PRP in connection with state and federal laws regarding environmental clean-up projects. We are subject to the federal, state and local environmental laws under which we may be designated as a PRP. As a PRP, we may be liable for a share of the costs associated with cleaning up hazardous waste sites, such as a landfill to which we may have sent waste. In de minimis PRP matters and in some minor PRP matters, we generally negotiate a consent decree to pay an apportioned settlement. This relieves us of any further liability as a PRP, except for remote contingencies. We are also a PRP at sites where our liability may be in excess of the de minimis or minor PRP levels. Most sites where we are a PRP represent environmental issues that are quite mature. The sites have been investigated, and in many cases, the remediation methodology, as well as the proportionate shares of each PRP, has been established. Other sites are not as mature, which makes it more difficult to reasonably estimate our share of future clean-up or remediation costs. Generally, environmental remediation and monitoring will go on for an extended period. As a result, we may incur substantial expenses for all these sites over a number of years. Liability for investigation and remediation of hazardous substance contamination at currently or formerly owned or operated facilities or at third-party waste disposal sites is joint and several. Currently, we are involved in active remediation efforts at several sites where we have been named a PRP. If other PRPs at these sites are unable to contribute to the remediation costs, we could be held responsible for some, or all, of their portion of the remediation costs, in addition to the portions for which we have already accounted. • Our financial results will vary according to the timing of customer orders and other external factors, which reduces your ability to gauge our performance. External factors beyond our control, such as customer orders, product shipment dates, and other factors can cause shifts in net sales and income from quarter to quarter. These external factors can magnify the impact of industry cycles. As a result, our income and cash flows may fluctuate significantly on a quarter-to-quarter basis, and your ability to gauge trends in our business may be impaired. • Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect our business. Our senior credit agreement, senior notes, and construction loan contain restrictive covenants. These covenants may constrain our activities and limit our operational and financial flexibility. The failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents • Our business is subject to hazards common to chemical businesses, any of which could interrupt our production or our transportation systems and adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is subject to hazards common to chemical manufacturing, storage, handling, and transportation, including explosions, fires, inclement weather, natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, transportation interruptions, remediation, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases, and other risks. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to, or destruction of, property and equipment, and environmental contamination. In addition, the occurrence of material operating problems at our facilities due to any of these hazards may diminish our ability to meet our output goals. Accordingly, these hazards and their consequences could have a material adverse effect on our operations as a whole, including our results of operations, and cash flows, both during and after the period of operational difficulties. • We could be required to make additional contributions to our pension funds, which may be underfunded due to any underperformance of the equities markets. Our pension plan asset allocation is predominantly weighted towards equities. Cash contribution requirements to our pension plans are sensitive to changes in our plans’ actual return on assets. Reductions in our plans’ expected return on assets due to poor performance of the equities markets could cause our pension plans to be underfunded and require us to make additional cash contributions. • The insurance that we maintain may not fully cover all potential exposures. We maintain property, business interruption, and casualty insurance, but such insurance may not cover all risks associated with the hazards of our business and is subject to limitations, including deductibles and maximum liabilities covered. We may incur losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of our insurance policies, including liabilities for environmental remediation. In the future, we may not be able to obtain coverage at current levels, and our premiums may increase significantly on coverage that we maintain. • The occurrence or threat of extraordinary events, including natural disasters and domestic and international terrorist attacks may disrupt our operations, decrease demand for our products, and increase our expenses. Chemical-related assets may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other possible targets in the United States and throughout the world. Federal legislation could impose significant new site security requirements specifically on chemical manufacturing facilities that may increase our overhead expenses. The significance of the cost will depend upon how our manufacturing facilities are classified by the federal government. That classification is pending. Federal regulations have also been enacted to increase the security of the transportation of hazardous chemicals in the United States. The occurrence of extraordinary events, including future terrorist attacks and the outbreak or escalation of hostilities, cannot be predicted, and their occurrence can be expected to continue to affect negatively the economy in general, and specifically the markets for our products. The resulting damage from a direct attack on our assets or assets used by us could include loss of life and property damage. In addition, available insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of the damage incurred or, if available, may be prohibitively expensive. • The worldwide economic slowdown and the turbulent financial markets may adversely affect our business. Worldwide economic problems have become more pronounced in the fourth quarter of 2008 resulting in a significant decrease in demand for our products. Although many of our products are not discretionary, as equipment and engines require their use, the forecast of demand for our products in this economic environment is difficult. 19 Table of Contents • Development, construction, and permanent financing risks associated with Foundry Park I could adversely affect our financial results. We own approximately 64 acres of real estate in downtown Richmond, Virginia, adjacent to our principal executive offices, which we have accumulated over many decades as the property became available. Of this total land holding, approximately seven acres, including those currently under construction, are the most desirable for further development should the demand arise in the community. In January 2007, Foundry Park I entered into a Deed of Lease Agreement with MeadWestvaco under which MeadWestvaco will lease an office building that we are constructing on approximately three acres of this real property. Our development and construction activities may subject us to the following risks: • we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary governmental permits and authorizations, including building occupancy permits; • we may incur development and construction costs that exceed our original estimates; • we may be unable to complete a project on schedule, which could result in increased construction costs and penalties; • we may be unable to obtain the permanent financing on favorable terms; and • we may incur losses, which could be material, for breakage fees under an interest rate lock agreement in connection with our application for permanent financing. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 