Item 1A. Risk Factors Unless the context indicates otherwise, all references in this Item to “we,” “us” or “our,” refer to First State Financial Corporation and its subsidiary. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that we believe affect us are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below in bold are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on or currently deemed immaterial may also impair business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and shareholders could lose all or part of their investment. While we attempt to manage the risk from changes in market interest rates, interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. A rapid or substantial increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and results of operations. Our net income depends primarily upon our net interest income. Net interest income is income that remains after deducting, from total income generated by earning assets, the interest expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earning assets. Income from earning assets includes income from loans and investment securities. The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors including the volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of the change in interest rates and levels of non-performing loans. The cost of funds varies with the amount of funds necessary to support earning assets, the rates paid to attract and hold deposits, rates paid on borrowed funds and levels of non-interest bearing demand deposits and equity capital. Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to changes in market interest rates. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities. That means either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest earning assets, or vice versa. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce our net interest income. Likewise, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates which are affected by many factors beyond our control including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. As of December 31, 2006, we were an asset-sensitive financial institution (assets repricing within one year exceeded liabilities repricing within one year). Net interest income is not only affected by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve, relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key driver rates, as well as balance sheet growth, client loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables. We may encounter unexpected financial and operating problems due to our rapid growth, as our strategy to grow in assets and locations may not be successful. Our total assets have grown from $147.4 million as of December 31, 2001 to $453.4 million as of December 31, 2006. The largest contributor to our growth has been the expansion of our loan portfolio. 8 Table of Contents Although we believe that we have implemented appropriate internal policies and procedures to handle this growth, our rapid growth may result in pressure on our capital requirements as we seek to maintain our “well-capitalized” designation. As a strategy, we have sought to increase the size of our franchise through rapid growth and by aggressively pursuing business development opportunities. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to be successful in increasing the volume of loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels and upon acceptable terms. Our ability to grow externally will depend on a variety of factors including the availability of desirable acquisition and business opportunities, and our ability to integrate acquisitions into our growth strategy. We face the risk that loan losses, including unanticipated loan losses due to changes in loan portfolios, fraud and economic factors, will exceed the allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance will be required which would cause our net income to decline and could have a negative impact on our capital and financial position. Making loans is an essential element of our business, and we recognize there is a risk that customer loans will not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including: • the duration of the loan; • credit risks of a particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors including the ongoing review and grading of the loan portfolio, consideration of past loan loss experience as well as that of the banking industry, trends in past due and nonperforming loans, risk characteristics of the various classifications of loans, existing economic conditions, the fair value of underlying collateral, the size and diversity of individual large credits, and other qualitative and quantitative factors which could affect probable credit losses. We determine that amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering these factors and by using estimates related to the amount and timing of expected future cash flows on impaired loans, estimated losses on pools of homogeneous loans based on our historical loss experience as well as that of the banking industry with additional qualitative factors for various issues, and allocations of reserves for special situations that are unique to the measurement period with consideration of current economic trends and conditions, all of which are susceptible to significant change. Because current economic conditions can change and future events are inherently difficult to predict, the anticipated amount of estimated loan losses, and therefore the adequacy of the allowance, could change significantly. There is no precise method of predicting loan losses, and therefore we always face the risk that charge-off in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses, and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would cause net income to decline in the periods(s) in which such additions occur and could also have a material adverse impact on capital and financial position. Our success is largely dependent on our ability to attract and retain talented employees for key positions. We do not have employment or noncompete agreements with our employees. Our success is largely dependent on the personal contacts of our officers and employees in our market areas. None of our employees are parties to an employment or noncompete agreement. If we were to lose any key employee, temporarily or permanently, our business could be hurt. We could be particularly hurt if our key employees went to work for our competitors. 9 Table of Contents Our exposure to credit risk is increased by our commercial real estate and commercial business lending. Commercial real estate and commercial business lending generally involve higher credit risks than single-family residential or consumer lending. Such loans involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. At December 31, 2006, we had a balance of $216.4 million in commercial real estate loans and $59.3 million in commercial business loans. Considering our entire loan portfolio is $377.1 million, these loans represent over 73% of our portfolio. Commercial real estate loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because commercial real estate borrowers’ ability to repay their loans depends more on successful development of their properties. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. The borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. Commercial business loans are typically based on the borrower’s ability to repay the loans from the cash flow of the business. Such loans involve greater risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. In addition, the collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise, and fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. New accounting or tax pronouncement or interpretations may be issued by the accounting profession, regulators or other government bodies which could change existing accounting methods. Changes in accounting methods could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. Current accounting and tax rules, standards, policies, and interpretations influence the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Events that may not have a direct impact on us, such as a bankruptcy of major U.S. companies, have resulted in legislators, regulators, and authoritative bodies, such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and various taxing authorities responding by adopting and/or proposing substantive revision to laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations, New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. A change in accounting standards may adversely affect reported financial condition and results of operations. Our business continuity plans or data security systems could prove to be inadequate, resulting in a material interruption in, or disruption to, our business and a negative impact on the results of operations. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems, whether due to severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, criminal activity or other factors, could result in failures or disruptions in general ledger, deposit, loan, customer relationship management, and other systems. While we have disaster recovery and other policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures interruptions or security breaches or our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our vendors could fail to fulfill their contractual obligations, resulting in a material interruption in, or disruption to, our business and a negative impact on the results of operations. 10 Table of Contents We have entered into subcontracts for the supply of current and future services, such as data processing and certain information technology and communication functions. These services must be available on a continuous and timely basis and be in compliance with any regulatory requirements. Failure to do so could substantially harm our business. We often purchase services from vendors under agreements that typically can be terminated on a periodic basis. There can be no assurance, however, that vendors will be able to meet their obligation under these agreement or that we will be able to compel them to do so. Risks of relying on vendors include the following. • If an existing agreement expires or a certain service is discontinued by a vendor, then we may not be able to continue to offer our customers the same breadth of products and our operating results would likely suffer unless we are able to find an alternate supply of a similar service. • Agreements we may negotiate in the future may commit us to certain minimum spending obligations. It is possible we will not be able to create the market demand to meet such obligations. • If market demand for our products increase suddenly, our current vendors might not be able to fulfill our commercial needs, which would require us to seek new arrangements or new sources of supply, and may result in substantial delays in meeting market demand. • We may not be able to control or adequately monitor the quality of service we receive from our vendors. Poor quality services could damage our reputation with our customers. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures, Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, result of operations and financial condition. Certain provisions of Florida law may discourage or prevent a takeover of our company and result in a lower market price for our common stock. Florida laws, as well as certain federal regulations, contain anti-takeover provisions that apply to us. While these provisions may offer us flexibility in managing our business, they could discourage potential buyers from seeking to acquire us, even though certain shareholders may wish to participate in such a transaction. These provisions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock An economic downturn, and the negative economic effects caused by terrorist attacks, potential attacks and other destablizing events, would likely contribute to the deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and could reduce our customer base, level of deposits, and demand for financial products such as loans. High inflation, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, an escalation of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, increased unemployment, changes in securities markets and other factors could have a negative impact on the economy of the regions in which we operate. A sustained economic downturn in our markets would likely contribute to the deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio by impacting the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and may reduce the level of deposits in our banking subsidiary and the stability of our deposits. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 11 Table of Contents 