Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business and operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our IDSs or Class A Common Stock could decline. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of net losses and may not generate profits in the future. We have experienced net losses in each fiscal year since 2000. We incurred net losses of approximately $24.6 million and $35.3 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 (“2006 Fiscal Year”) and for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 (“2005 Fiscal Year”), respectively. These losses have resulted from a variety of costs including, but not limited to, non-cash charges such as depreciation and amortization of tangible and intangible assets and debt financing costs resulting from our growth strategy. Continuing net losses limit our ability to service our debt and fund our operations. We may not generate net income from operations in the future. Our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in negotiating lease renewals. Our business is highly dependent upon the renewal of our lease contracts with property owners and management companies. We have historically focused on obtaining long-term, renewable lease contracts, and management estimates that approximately 90% of our locations are subject to long-term leases with initial terms of five to ten years. If we are unable to secure long-term exclusive leases on favorable terms or at all, or if property owners or management companies choose to vacate properties as a result of economic downturns that impact occupancy levels our growth, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully identify attractive “tuck-in” acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired operations or realize the intended benefits of acquisitions. We evaluate from time to time opportunities to acquire local, regional and multi-regional route businesses. This strategy is subject to numerous risks, including: • an inability to obtain sufficient financing to complete our acquisitions; • an inability to negotiate definitive acquisition agreements on satisfactory terms; • difficulty in integrating the operations, systems and management of acquired assets and absorbing the increased demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources; • the diversion of our management’s attention from their other responsibilities; • the loss of key employees following completion of our acquisitions; • the failure to realize the intended benefits of our acquisitions; and • our being subject to unknown liabilities. Our inability to effectively address these risks could force us to revise our business plan, incur unanticipated expenses or forego additional opportunities for expansion. If our required capital expenditures exceed our projections, we may not have sufficient funding, which could adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations. We must continue to make capital expenditures relating to our route business to maintain our operating base, including investments in equipment, advance location payments and laundry room improvements. Capital expenditures (net of proceeds from the sale of equipment and investments) in connection with maintaining and 8 Table of Contents expanding our machine base for the 2006 Fiscal Year were approximately $69.3 million (excluding approximately $3.4 million relating to acquisition capital expenditures and payments of approximately $4.7 million relating to capital lease obligations) and for the 2005 Fiscal Year were approximately $70.3 million (excluding approximately $0.6 million relating to acquisitions and approximately $4.3 million relating to capital lease payments). We may have unanticipated capital expenditure requirements in the future. If we cannot obtain such capital from increases in our cash flow from operating activities, additional borrowings or other sources, our growth, financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. Reduced occupancy levels could adversely affect us. Extended periods of reduced occupancy can adversely affect our operations. In a period of occupancy decline, we could be faced with reductions in revenues and cash flow from operations in certain areas. In past periods of occupancy decline, we designed incentive programs that were successful in maintaining stable profit margins by offering owners and management companies, financial incentives relating to increased occupancy levels in exchange for certain guaranteed minimum periodic payments. Although we are geographically diversified and our revenue is derived from a large customer base, we may not be able to maintain our revenue levels or cash flow from operations in periods of low occupancy. Our dividend policy may negatively impact our ability to finance our working capital requirements, capital expenditures or operations. Further to our dividend policy, since the completion of the IPO, our board of directors has distributed to holders of our common stock substantially all of the cash generated by our business in excess of operating needs and amounts needed to service our indebtedness. If, as expected, we maintain our dividend policy and rate of cash dividend payments, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to finance growth opportunities that may arise or unanticipated capital expenditure needs or to fund our operations in the event of a significant business downturn. We may have to forego growth opportunities or capital expenditures that would otherwise be necessary or desirable if we do not find alternative sources of financing. If we do not have sufficient cash for these purposes, our financial condition and our business will suffer. Our business could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more of our key personnel. Continued success will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and certain other key employees. We do not maintain insurance policies with respect to the retention of such employees, and our operations could be affected adversely if, for any reason, such officers or key employees do not remain with us. Our industry is highly competitive, which could adversely affect our business. The laundry equipment services industry is highly competitive, capital intensive and requires reliable, quality service. The industry is fragmented nationally, with many small, private and family-owned businesses operating throughout all major metropolitan areas. Notwithstanding the fragmentation of the industry, there are currently three companies, including us, with significant operations in multiple regions throughout the United States. Some of our competitors may possess greater financial and other resources. Furthermore, current and potential competitors may make acquisitions or may establish relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to compete within the industry. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. If this were to occur, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by compliance obligations and liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. Our business and operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations on the discharge of, and establish standards for the handling, generation, emission, release, discharge, treatment, storage and disposal of, certain materials, substances and wastes. To the best of management’s knowledge, there are no existing or potential environmental claims against us, nor have we received any notification of responsibility for, or any inquiry or investigation regarding, any disposal, release or threatened release of any hazardous material, substance or waste generated by us that is likely to have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. However, we cannot predict with any certainty that we will not in the future incur any liability under environmental laws and regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Recently enacted federal legislation concerning energy and water efficiency standards on commercial clothes washers could require a significant increase in our capital expenditures and consequently reduce our profit margins. Pursuant to recent amendments to the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, commercial clothes washers manufactured after January 1, 2007 will be subject to certain federal energy and water efficiency standards. We have been informed by certain manufacturers that washers not compliant with such standards may be able to be modified without a material increase in cost in order to meet such standards. However, if manufacturers are unable to make such modifications without material cost increases or at all, implementing machines compliant with such laws could result in increased capital costs (including material and equipment costs), labor and installation costs, and in some cases, operation and maintenance costs. Our capital expenditures, as well as those of other industry participants, may significantly increase in order to comply with such standards. If we are unable to mitigate such increased capital through price increases, we may be unable to recover such costs and our cash flows from operations would be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Securities We have substantial indebtedness which could restrict our ability to pay interest and principal on the 11% Senior Secured Notes and to pay dividends with respect to the shares of the Class A Common Stock and the shares of Class B Common Stock and could adversely affect our financing options and liquidity position. We have now, and will continue to have, a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of March 31, 2006, we had total indebtedness of approximately $664.3 million, and an additional $75.0 million (or $68.2 million after letters of credit) available for borrowing under the revolver portion of the Amended and Restated Credit Facility. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, our substantial indebtedness could: • make it more difficult for us to pay dividends on our common stock; • reduce or eliminate your ability to recover any of your investment in any bankruptcy proceedings involving us; • limit our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions, reduce our ability to withstand competitive pressures and increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, future business opportunities, including strategic acquisitions, and other general corporate requirements or hinder us from obtaining such financing on terms favorable to us or at all; • limit our ability to raise cash through the issuance of additional securities; 10 Table of Contents • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, future business opportunities and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness. We may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness, which could exacerbate the risks described above. We may be able to incur substantial amounts of additional indebtedness in the future, including indebtedness resulting from issuances of separate 11% Senior Secured Notes or additional IDSs or from borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility. While the indenture governing the 11% Senior Secured Notes, the Amended and Restated Credit Facility and the terms of the Intercompany Note (as defined herein) will limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness, those limitations are subject to a number of exceptions. Furthermore, we may enter into future financing arrangements. Any additional indebtedness incurred by us could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. The holders of IDSs and common stock may not receive the level of dividends provided for in the dividend policy that our board of directors adopted or any dividends at all. We expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends on our Class A Common Stock at the rate set forth in our current dividend policy. However, our board of directors may, in its discretion, amend or repeal our dividend policy. Our board of directors may decrease the level of dividends provided for in the dividend policy or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends. Dividend payments are not required or guaranteed, and holders of our common stock do not have any legal right to receive or require the payment of dividends. Future dividends, if any, with respect to shares of our capital stock will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition and contractual restrictions, and our ability to generate cash from our operations, which in turn is dependent on our ability to attract and retain customers and our ability to service our debt obligations and capital expenditures requirements. See “Item 5 — Market Price of and Dividends on Our Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities — Dividends — Restrictions on Dividend Payments.” Other factors, including the pursuit of new business strategies or opportunities, increased regulatory compliance costs or lease renewal costs, changes in our competitive environment and changes in tax treatment of our debt, may also reduce cash available for dividends. Subject to certain limitations, we may redeem all or part of our outstanding Class B Common Stock. Any purchase by us of shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock will reduce cash available for Class A Common Stock dividend payments. In the fourth quarter of the 2006 Fiscal Year, we repurchased 2,199,413 shares of Class A Common Stock and 1,605,995 shares of Class B Common Stock with proceeds from the Class A Offering. See “Item 5 — Market Price of and Dividends on Our Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities — Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.” Due to our currently contemplated cash uses, including dividend payments, we do not expect to retain enough cash from operations to be able to pay our outstanding indebtedness when it matures or when principal payments (other than regularly scheduled amortization payments under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility) on such indebtedness otherwise becomes due. Therefore, cash available for dividends will be reduced when such payments are required, unless such indebtedness is refinanced prior to such time. See “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Future Capital Needs and Resources.” In addition, any future issuances of Class A Common Stock, including but not limited to issuances pursuant to our existing benefit plans, will increase the number of outstanding Class A common stock shares and consequently make it more difficult for us to pay dividends on the Class A Common Stock at the dividend 11 Table of Contents rate set forth in our dividend policy. As of February 15, 2006, 88,889 restricted shares of Class A Common Stock had been awarded to certain executive officers and directors and employees under our benefit plans. See “Item 5 — Market Price of and Dividends on Our Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities — Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans.” The earliest that the subordination of payment of any cash dividends on the Class B Common Stock may terminate is the fiscal year ending March 31, 2008, and all shares of Class B Common Stock will then be equally entitled to cash dividend payments with all shares of Class A Common Stock, subject to the Class B Common Stock step up dividend right described below. Therefore, any cash set aside for dividends will have to be shared by the holders of the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock on a pro rata basis. Since under these circumstances less cash will be available to the holders of Class A Common Stock, we may be forced to reduce cash dividends on the Class A Common Stock. Following the termination of the subordination provisions, each share of Class B Common Stock will be entitled to a step up dividend of 105% of the aggregate amount of dividends declared on each share of Class A Common Stock for the four fiscal quarters occurring during any fiscal year ending after March 31, 2007 (unless, solely with respect to the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and March 31, 2009, the Subordination Termination Conditions have not been satisfied with respect to such fiscal year). Any excess payments in cash will reduce cash available for future Class A Common Stock dividend payments, which may force us to reduce such Class A Common Stock dividend payments. Furthermore, the Amended and Restated Credit Facility, the Intercompany Note and the indenture governing the 11% Senior Secured Notes contain limitations on Coinmach Corp.’s ability to pay dividends. In addition, any financing arrangements we may enter into in the future, may contain further limitations. You may not receive the level of dividends provided for in our dividend policy or any dividends at all. Delaware law also restricts our ability to pay dividends. Under Delaware law, our board of directors and the boards of directors of our corporate subsidiaries may declare dividends only to the extent of our “surplus,” which is total assets at current value minus total liabilities at current value (as each may be determined in good faith by our board of directors), minus statutory capital, or if there is no surplus, out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. There is no active trading market for our debt-only securities, which could prevent us from issuing debt-only securities and may limit our ability to obtain future financing. If we are unable to issue additional IDSs, we may be forced to rely on the sale of debt-only or equity-only securities as an additional source of capital. However, the absence of a liquid market for separate notes may make the issuance by us of separate notes relatively less appealing, limiting our ability to obtain debt-only financing on reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise capital through a debt-only financing, we may be forced to enter into more costly financing arrangements in order to fund working capital and capital expenditures and otherwise service our liquidity needs. We are a holding company with no direct operations, and therefore our ability to make payments under the 11% Senior Secured Notes or declare and distribute dividends on the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries. We are a holding company with no operations. Consequently, we will depend on distributions or other intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries (including payments under the intercompany loan from Coinmach Corp.) to make interest and principal payments on the 11% Senior Secured Notes and to pay dividends on the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. In addition, distributions and intercompany transfers to us from our subsidiaries will depend on: • their earnings; • covenants contained in our and their debt agreements, including the Amended and Restated Credit Facility and the indenture governing the 11% Senior Secured Notes; 12 Table of Contents • covenants contained in other agreements to which we or our subsidiaries are or may become subject; • business and tax considerations; and • applicable law, including laws regarding the payment of dividends and distributions. Restrictions on Coinmach Corp.’s ability to pay dividends contained in the indenture governing the Amended and Restated Credit Facility are different, and potentially more restrictive, than the restrictions on our ability to pay dividends contained in the indenture governing the 11% Senior Secured Notes. Therefore, circumstances may arise where, although we would be permitted to pay dividends under the indenture governing the 11% Senior Secured Notes, Coinmach Corp. would be unable to provide us with the cash to actually pay such dividends as well as interest on the 11% Senior Secured Notes. We cannot give assurance that the operating results of our subsidiaries will be sufficient to make distributions or other payments to us or that any distributions and/or payments will be adequate to pay any amounts due under the 11% Senior Secured Notes or the amounts intended under our dividend policy. Restrictive covenants in our current and future indebtedness could adversely restrict our operating flexibility. The indenture governing the 11% Senior Secured Notes contains covenants that restrict our ability, as well as the ability of our restricted subsidiaries, to: • incur additional indebtedness or, in the case of our restricted subsidiaries, issue preferred stock; • create liens; • pay dividends or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • sell or make certain dispositions of assets; • engage in sale and leaseback transactions; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • place restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends, or make other payments, to us; and • engage in mergers or consolidations and transfers of all, or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the Amended and Restated Credit Facility and the Intercompany Note contain, and the terms of any other indebtedness that we or our subsidiaries may enter into (including any future financing arrangements) may contain, other and more restrictive covenants that limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to incur indebtedness, and make capital expenditures and limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends to us. These covenants may also require us and/or our subsidiaries to meet or maintain specified financial ratios and tests. Our ability to comply with the ratios and tests under these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial, regulatory or industry conditions. A breach of any of such covenants, ratios or tests could result in a default under such indebtedness. The Amended and Restated Credit Facility (and the Intercompany Note) prohibit Coinmach Corp. and its subsidiaries (including AWA, as a guarantor under such credit facility), from making certain distributions in respect of its capital stock while a default or an event of default is outstanding thereunder. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility or holders of the 11% Senior Secured Notes, as applicable, could proceed against the security granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the lenders or holders of the 11% Senior Secured Notes accelerated the payment of their indebtedness, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full our indebtedness, which could prevent you from recovering some or all of your investment in the Class A Common Stock. 13 Table of Contents Lack of a significant amount of cash could adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make payments on, refinance or repay our debt, or to fund planned capital expenditures and expand our business, will depend largely upon our future operating performance. Our future operating performance is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot give assurance that our business will generate enough cash to enable us to pay our outstanding debt or fund our other liquidity and capital needs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to service our debt requirements, we will be required to obtain such capital from additional borrowings or other sources, including: • sales of certain assets to meet our debt service requirements; • sales of equity; and • negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. If we cannot satisfy our cash requirements, our growth, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Additionally, our after-tax cash flow available for dividend payments would be reduced if the 11% Senior Secured Notes were treated by the Internal Revenue Service, or the “IRS,” as equity rather than debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In that event, the stated interest on the 11% Senior Secured Notes could be treated as a dividend, and interest on the 11% Senior Secured Notes would not be deductible by us for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our inability to deduct interest on the 11% Senior Secured Notes could materially increase our taxable income and, thus, our U.S. federal and applicable state income tax liability. This could reduce our after-tax cash flow and materially adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on the Class A Common Stock. Voting control of us by Holdings may prevent the holders of IDSs from receiving a premium in the event of a change of control and may create conflicts of interest. As of March 31, 2006, Holdings was in control of approximately 62% of our voting power and therefore exerts substantial control over our business and over matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. Such voting control could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, merger or tender offer of us, which would deprive our security holders of an opportunity to receive a premium for our securities and may negatively affect the market price of such securities. Moreover, Holdings could effectively receive a premium for transferring ownership to third parties that would not inure to the benefit of the other holders of our securities. The interests of the equity investors in Holdings (which equity investors include our management and certain of our directors) may conflict with the interests of other holders of our securities. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of these parties as indirect holders of equity might conflict with the interests of a holder of the 11% Senior Secured Notes. These parties also may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to the holders of the 11% Senior Secured Notes. We will not be able to deduct interest on the 11% Senior Secured Notes if the 11% Senior Secured Notes are not respected as debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our after-tax cash flow available for dividend payments would be reduced if the 11% Senior Secured Notes were treated by the IRS, as equity rather than debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In that event, the stated interest on the 11% Senior Secured Notes could be treated as a dividend, and interest on the 11% Senior Secured Notes would not be deductible by us for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our inability to deduct interest on the 11% Senior Secured Notes could materially increase our taxable income and, thus, 14 Table of Contents our U.S. federal and applicable state income tax liability. This could reduce our after-tax cash flow and materially adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on the Class A Common Stock. The separate public trading markets for IDSs and shares of Class A Common Stock, and the ability to separate and create IDSs, may diminish the value of your investment in IDSs or separately held shares of Class A Common Stock, as the case may be. Our IDSs and shares of Class A Common Stock not held in the form of IDSs are separately listed for trading on the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”). An IDS holder may separate its IDSs into shares of Class A Common Stock and 11% Senior Secured Notes at any time. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain events IDSs will automatically and, in some cases, permanently, separate. Conversely, subject to limitations, a holder of separate shares of Class A Common Stock and 11% Senior Secured Notes can combine such securities to form IDSs. Separation and creation of IDSs will automatically result in increases and decreases, respectively, in the number of IDSs and shares of Class A Common Stock not in the form of IDSs. We cannot predict what effect separate trading markets in IDSs and separately held shares of Class A Common Stock, or fluctuations in the number of such securities outstanding, will have on the value of such securities. If the value of separately held shares of Class A Common Stock is deemed to be less than the value of the same security underlying an IDS, creation of IDSs by combining such separate shares with any then available 11% Senior Secured Notes may become more attractive. Conversely, if the value of an IDS is deemed to be less than the value of its components, separation of IDSs may become more attractive. Any reduction in the number of either IDSs or separately held shares of Class A Common Stock would decrease the liquidity for the remaining outstanding IDSs or shares of Class A Common Stock (as the case may be), which could further diminish the value of such securities. Furthermore, if the number of either of such securities outstanding falls below the minimum required for listing on the American Stock Exchange, such securities may be delisted from such exchange. If we have insufficient cash flow to cover dividend payments under our dividend policy or to make such payments in compliance with our and our subsidiaries’ outstanding indebtedness, we will need to reduce or eliminate dividends or, to the extent permitted under our debt agreements, fund a portion of our dividends with additional borrowings. Our dividend policy contemplates the payment of a quarterly cash dividend of approximately $0.20615 per share of Class A Common Stock and subject to certain subordination provisions and other limitations, an annual dividend on shares of our Class B Common Stock. Under the terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Facility we are required to satisfy various financial maintenance covenants in order to pay dividends, including a requirement that our EBITDA equals or exceeds certain specified minimum amounts over specified periods, which amounts may exceed the amounts necessary to pay cash dividends on our common stock pursuant to our dividend policy. In addition, in order to pay dividends on our common stock, we are also required to satisfy certain covenants under the indenture governing the 11% Senior Secured Notes. If we are not able to satisfy the financial and other covenants in our debt agreements or otherwise generate sufficient funds to pay dividends on our common stock pursuant to our dividend policy, we may be required to do one or more of the following: (i) reduce our capital expenditures, (ii) fund capital expenditures or other costs and expenses with borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility, (iii) evaluate other funding alternatives, such as capital markets transactions, refinancing or restructuring our consolidated indebtedness, asset sales, or financing from third parties, or (iv) seek an amendment, waiver or other modification from requisite lenders under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility, holders of the 11% Senior Secured Notes and lenders under any financing arrangements entered into by us to the extent applicable restrictions contained in the terms of such indebtedness precluded us from making such dividends. Additional sources of funds may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all or may not be permitted pursuant to the terms of our existing indebtedness. Furthermore, if we failed to satisfy any financial maintenance or other covenant, we would be required to seek an amendment, waiver or other modification from the requisite lenders under the Amended and Restated 15 Table of Contents Credit Facility to waive any resulting default. If we were to use working capital or permanent borrowings to fund dividends, we would have less cash and/or borrowing capacity available for future dividends and other purposes, which could negatively impact our future liquidity, our ability to adapt to changes in our industry and our ability to expand our business. In addition to any of the foregoing options that may be available to us, our board of directors may at any time and in its absolute discretion reduce the level of dividends provided for in our dividend policy or eliminate such dividends entirely. Future sales or the possibility of future sales of a substantial amount of shares of Class A Common Stock or IDSs may depress the price of IDSs or shares of Class A Common Stock. Future sales or the availability for sale of substantial amounts of shares of Class A Common Stock or IDSs in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of IDSs or shares of Class A Common Stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of our securities. We may issue shares of our Class A Common Stock, which may or may not be in the form of IDSs, or other securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. In the event any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of our Class A Common Stock, which may be in the form of IDSs, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be significant. In addition, we may also grant registration rights covering those IDSs, shares of Class A Common Stock, or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. From time to time our employees may be granted equity-based performance incentives pursuant to our existing benefit plans, which might include the issuance of new shares of Class A Common Stock or IDSs. New issuances of Class A Common Stock or IDSs under such plans would have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share, and could reduce the fair market value of IDSs or Class A Common Stock. As of February 15, 2006, 88,889 restricted shares of Class A Common Stock had been awarded to certain executive officers and directors and employees under our benefit plans. See “Item 5 — Market Price of and Dividends on our Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities — Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans.” Any sales or distributions of shares of our Class A Common Stock or IDSs would dilute our earnings per share and the voting power of each share of common stock outstanding prior to such sale or distribution, and could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our IDSs and Class A Common Stock. As a result you could experience a significant loss in the value of your investment. Available Information Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, we are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information about the public reference room. The SEC maintains a web site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We file electronically with the SEC. We make available, free of charge, through the investor relations section of our web site, our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. The address for our web site is http://www.coinmachservicecorp.com. We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applicable to all of our and our subsidiaries’ employees, officers and directors. We have also adopted a Supplemental Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers. The full text of each such code is available at the investor relations section of our web site, http://www.coinmachservicecorp.com. We intend to disclose amendments to, or waivers from, each such code in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC and make such disclosures available on our web site. 16 Table of Contents The information contained on our web site is not part of, and is not incorporated in, this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2006 fiscal year that remained unresolved. 