Item 1A. Risk Factors Unless the context indicates otherwise, all references in this Item to “we,” “us” or “our,” refer to First State Financial Corporation and its subsidiary. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that we believe affect us are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below in bold are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on or currently deemed immaterial may also impair business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and shareholders could lose all or part of their investment. Recent negative developments in the financial services industry and the U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Negative developments in 2008 in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing in 2009 and beyond. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets, compared to prior years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and capital and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of any new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. Our interest rate risk management techniques are not exact and a rapid or substantial increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and results of operations. The Bank’s profitability, like that of most financial institutions, is dependent to a large extent upon its net interest income, which is the difference between its interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and its interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and other borrowings. The Bank has been and will continue to be affected by general changes in levels of interest rates and other economic factors beyond its control. Changes in market interest rates may also affect the average life, yield to maturity, and related market value of the Bank’s loans and other investments. Declines in the market values of any of the Bank’s available-for-sale investments will cause deterioration in the Bank’s shareholders’ equity, as such available-for-sale investments are required under generally accepted accounting principles to be recorded at fair value, with net unrealized gains or losses included in shareholders’ equity. As a result, changes in the underlying market values of such securities will result in volatility in shareholders’ equity. Significant decreases in such underlying market values could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s capital 10 Table of Contents position. In regards to earnings, to the extent that the Bank acquires securities in the future which are classified as trading securities, or reclassifies securities as trading, net unrealized gains and losses on such securities will be included in earnings. As a result of the changing interest rate environment, the Bank’s net interest rate margin on a tax equivalent basis decreased from 4.00% for the year ended December 31, 2007 to 2.79% for the year ended December 31, 2008. If interest rates continue to change, the Bank may not be able to maintain its net interest rate spread at this level. Interest rate spread is an important factor in the calculation of net interest income. Unless offset by changes in the mix or volume of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, a decline in the Bank’s interest rate spread would have an adverse effect on its net interest income. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where we operate Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary and secondary markets. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally continue to remain unfavorable, our business will be adversely affected. Adverse economic conditions in our specific market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Continued market or economic conditions in the state of Florida may disproportionately increase the risk that our borrowers will be unable to make their loan payments. In addition, the market value of the real estate securing loans as collateral could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in the state of Florida could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We make and hold in our portfolio a significant number of land acquisition and development and construction loans, which pose more credit risk than other types of loans typically made by financial institutions. We offer land acquisition and development and construction loans for builders, developers and individuals. The primary credit risks associated with land acquisition and development and construction lending are underwriting, project risks and market risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, and environmental and other hazard risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential or commercial units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk of affordability of financing by borrowers, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects. While we believe we have established adequate reserves on our financial statements to cover the credit risk of our land acquisition and development and construction loan portfolio, there can be no assurance that losses will not exceed our reserves, which could adversely impact our earnings. Non-performing loans in our land acquisition and development and construction portfolio may increase further and these non-performing loans may result in a material level of charge-offs, which may negatively impact our capital and earnings. If the value of real estate in our core Florida market were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Additional declines in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of our real estate collateral. Additionally, the availability of property insurance, including windstorm and flood insurance, and the significant increases in the cost thereof in the Florida market may negatively affect borrowers’ abilities to repay existing loans and the abilities of potential borrowers to qualify for new loans. Consequently, declines in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. 11 Table of Contents In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of each borrower, we often secure loans with real estate collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Current and anticipated deterioration in the housing market and the homebuilding industry may lead to increased loss severities and further worsening of delinquencies and non-performing assets in our loan portfolios. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. There has been substantial industry concern and publicity over asset quality among financial institutions due in large part to issues related to residential mortgage lending, declining real estate values and general economic concerns. Furthermore, the housing and residential mortgage markets recently have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios as we continue to reassess the market value of our loan portfolio and the losses associated with the loans in default. The homebuilding industry has experienced a significant and sustained decline in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale in various markets, including the markets in which we lend. Our customers who are builders and developers face greater difficulty in selling their homes in markets where these trends are more pronounced. Consequently, we may face increased delinquencies and non-performing assets if builders and developers are forced to default on their loans with us. We do not anticipate that the housing market will improve in the near-term, and accordingly, additional downgrades, provisions for loan losses and charge-offs related to our loan portfolio may occur. Although publicly traded, the trading market in our common stock is less liquid and the price of our common stock due to this limited trading market may be more volatile in the future. Our common stock is thinly traded. Thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. In recent years, the stock market has experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and market prices for the stock of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to their operating performance. Therefore, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. We face the risk that loan losses, including unanticipated loan losses due to changes in loan portfolios, fraud and economic factors, will exceed the allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance will be required which would cause our net income to decline and could have a negative impact on our capital and financial position. Making loans is an essential element of our business, and we recognize there is a risk that customer loans will not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including: • the duration of the loan; • credit risks of a particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors including the ongoing review and grading of the loan portfolio, consideration of past loan loss experience as well as that of the banking industry, trends in past due and nonperforming loans, risk 12 Table of Contents characteristics of the various classifications of loans, existing economic conditions, the fair value of underlying collateral, the size and diversity of individual large credits, and other qualitative and quantitative factors which could affect probable credit losses. We determine that amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering these factors and by using estimates related to the amount and timing of expected future cash flows on impaired loans, estimated losses on pools of homogeneous loans based on our historical loss experience as well as that of the banking industry with additional qualitative factors for various issues, and allocations of reserves for special situations that are unique to the measurement period with consideration of current economic trends and conditions, all of which are susceptible to significant change. Because current economic conditions can change and future events are inherently difficult to predict, the anticipated amount of estimated loan losses, and therefore the adequacy of the allowance, could change significantly. There is no precise method of predicting loan losses, and therefore we always face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses, and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would cause net income to decline in the period(s) in which such additions occur and could also have a material adverse impact on our capital and financial position. We cannot, without regulatory approval, increase our amount of brokered deposits or other borrowings. We can offer no assurance that the Bank will be able to maintain or increase its market share of deposits in our highly competitive service areas. As of December 31, 2008, the Bank had $26.1 million brokered deposits. However, the Bank is unable, without regulatory approval, to increase its amount of brokered deposits and other borrowings. If the Bank is unable to access these markets, the Bank’s liquidity and ability to support demand for loans could be adversely affected. Our continued growth and current level of earnings or losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We may at some point, need to raise additional capital to support our operations. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot give any assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. We face regulatory risks related to our commercial real estate loan concentrations. Commercial real estate, or CRE, is cyclical and poses risks of possible loss due to concentration levels and similar risks of the asset class. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 47.2% of our loan portfolio consisted of CRE loans. The banking regulators are more closely scrutinizing CRE lending and may require banks with higher levels of CRE loans to implement more rigorous underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly requiring high levels of allowances for possible loan losses and capital levels as a result of CRE lending growth and exposures. Our success is largely dependent on our ability to attract and retain talented employees for key positions. We do not have employment or noncompete agreements with our employees. Our success is largely dependent on the personal contacts of our officers and employees in our market areas. None of our employees are parties to an employment or noncompete agreement. If we were to lose any key employee, temporarily or permanently, our business could be hurt. We could be particularly hurt if our key employees went to work for our competitors. 13 Table of Contents Our exposure to credit risk is increased by our commercial real estate and commercial business lending. Commercial real estate and commercial business lending generally can involve higher credit risks than single-family residential or consumer lending. Such loans involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. Commercial real estate loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because commercial real estate borrowers’ ability to repay their loans depends more on successful development of their properties. These loans also can involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. The borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. Commercial business loans are typically based on the borrower’s ability to repay the loans from the cash flow of the business. Such loans involve greater risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. In addition, the collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise, and fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. New accounting or tax pronouncements or interpretations may be issued by the accounting profession, regulators or other government bodies which could change existing accounting methods. Changes in accounting methods could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. Current accounting and tax rules, standards, policies, and interpretations influence the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Events that may not have a direct impact on us, such as a bankruptcy of major U.S. companies, have resulted in legislators, regulators, and authoritative bodies, such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and various taxing authorities responding by adopting and/or proposing substantive revision to laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. A change in accounting standards may adversely affect reported financial condition and results of operations. Our business continuity plans or data security systems could prove to be inadequate, resulting in a material interruption in, or disruption to, our business and a negative impact on our results of operations. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems, whether due to severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, criminal activity or other factors, could result in failures or disruptions in general ledger, deposit, loan, customer relationship management, and other systems. While we have disaster recovery and other policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our vendors could fail to fulfill their contractual obligations, resulting in a material interruption in, or disruption to, our business and a negative impact on our results of operations. We have entered into subcontracts for the supply of current and future services, such as data processing and certain information technology and communication functions. These services must be available on a continuous and timely basis and be in compliance with any regulatory requirements. Failure to do so could substantially harm our business. We often purchase services from vendors under agreements that typically can be terminated on a periodic basis. There can be no assurance, however, that vendors will be able to meet their obligation under these agreements or that we will be able to compel them to do so. Risks of relying on vendors include the following: • If an existing agreement expires or a certain service is discontinued by a vendor, then we may not be able to continue to offer our customers the same breadth of products and our operating results would likely suffer unless we are able to find an alternate supply of a similar service. • Agreements we may negotiate in the future may commit us to certain minimum spending obligations. It is possible we will not be able to create the market demand to meet such obligations. • If market demand for our products increased suddenly, our current vendors might not be able to fulfill our commercial needs, which would require us to seek new arrangements or new sources of supply, and may result in substantial delays in meeting market demand. • We may not be able to control or adequately monitor the quality of service we receive from our vendors. Poor quality services could damage our reputation with our customers. The Company Is Subject To Environmental Liability Risk Associated With Lending Activities A significant portion of the Bank’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Bank may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Bank may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Bank to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Bank’s ability to use or sell the affected property. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain provisions of Florida law may discourage or prevent a takeover of our company and result in a lower market price for our common stock. Florida laws, as well as certain federal regulations, contain anti-takeover provisions that apply to us. While these provisions may offer us flexibility in managing our business, they could discourage potential buyers from seeking to acquire us, even though certain shareholders may wish to participate in such a transaction. These provisions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 15 Table of Contents The continued economic downturn, and the negative economic effects caused by terrorist attacks, potential attacks and other destablizing events, will likely continue to contribute to the deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and could reduce our customer base, level of deposits, and demand for financial products such as loans. High inflation, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, an escalation of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, increased unemployment, changes in securities markets and other factors could have a negative impact on the economy of the regions in which we operate. A sustained economic downturn in our markets would likely contribute to the deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio by impacting the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and may reduce the level of deposits in our banking subsidiary and the stability of our deposits. We do not plan to pay cash dividends on our common shares in the foreseeable future. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common shares in the foreseeable future. The payment of cash dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and its determination to declare such dividends, which will depend upon a number of factors, including capital requirements, regulatory limitations, restrictions on the payment of dividends by the Bank under Florida state law and regulations of the Florida Department, the results of operations and financial condition, tax considerations, and general economic conditions. Our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ. We may fail to comply with the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ, which may result in the delisting of our common stock. NASDAQ rules require, among other things, that the minimum listing price of our common stock be at least $1.00 for more than 30 consecutive trading days. If we failed to comply with the minimum listing price requirement and were unable to cure such defect within the six months following the receipt of any notice from the NASDAQ regarding our failure to achieve the minimum listing price of our common stock, the NASDAQ might delist our common stock. Delisting would have an adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock and, as a result, the market price for our common stock might become more volatile. Delisting could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 