Risk Factors” and in other reports that we file with the SEC. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our securities. If the market price of our securities declines, you may be unable to resell your securities at or above the public offering price, or upon terms that otherwise are attractive to you. We cannot assure you that the market price of our securities will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. In addition, the securities markets in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations. Our ability to pay dividends on shares of our common and preferred stock may be limited. Our ability to pay dividends on shares of our common and preferred stock will depend almost entirely on the difference, or “spread,” between the interest rates we earn on our assets and the interest rates we pay on our debt, as well as payments and dividends received on our interests in our subsidiaries, especially HBMC. Additionally, the terms of some of our debt facilities limit our ability to make some types of payments and other dividends, 63 including payment of dividends on our issued and outstanding Series A preferred stock, unless we meet certain financial tests, including maximum leverage covenants, minimum equity levels and GAAP net income. Our debt facilities restrict us from paying dividends or distributions to our preferred and common shareholders when a payment default exists and is continuing or would arise from the payment of dividends or distributions on our preferred or common stock. Otherwise, our payment of dividends is restricted where a default exists under our debt facilities and is continuing, or would arise as a result of such payments, except in the case where such dividends or distributions are necessary to maintain our tax status as a REIT. As a result, we may not be able to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock in one or more periods. Our ability to pay dividends is further limited by the requirements of Georgia law. Our ability to pay dividends on shares of our common and preferred stock is further limited by the laws of the State of Georgia. Under the Georgia Business Corporation Code, a Georgia corporation may not make a distribution if, after giving effect to the distribution, the corporation would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business, or the corporation’s total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities plus (unless the articles of incorporation permit otherwise) the amount that would be needed, if the corporation were dissolved at the time of the distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of shareholders whose preferential rights are superior to those receiving the distribution. Accordingly, we may not make a distribution or pay a dividend on shares of our common or preferred stock if, after giving effect to the distribution, we would not be able to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business or our total assets would be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of the holders of any shares of our preferred stock then outstanding. We may not have the ability to pay distributions to you in the future. We intend to distribute to our shareholders all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income in each year in at least the amount needed to preserve our REIT status. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, including cash, liquidity and borrowing capacity, maintenance of our REIT status and other factors that our board of directors determine relevant from time to time. We cannot predict our ability to pay distributions in the future. We may issue additional shares of our common and preferred stock in the future, which would dilute your ownership if you did not, or were not permitted to, invest in the additional issuances. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors, without shareholder approval, to, among other things: • issue additional common stock or issue preferred stock in connection with future equity offerings and acquisitions of securities or assets of other companies; and • set the preferences, rights and other terms of preferred stock of various series, including preference rights over the common stock with respect to dividends, liquidation, voting and other matters. From time to time, we expect to issue additional equity securities to raise additional equity to support the additional leverage required to grow our portfolio. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock could be substantially dilutive to our common shareholders if they elect not to invest in future offerings. Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, options or warrants to purchase our common stock in the future and those stock appreciation rights, options or warrants are exercised or as the restricted stock units vest, our shareholders may experience further dilution. Holders of our shares of common and preferred stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, our shareholders may not be permitted to invest in future issuances of our common stock. 64 We may issue debt and equity securities which are senior to our common stock and preferred stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our common and preferred stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing that is unsecured or secured by all or up to all of our assets, or issuing debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of secured or unsecured commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes, preferred stock or common stock. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt securities would receive a distribution of our available assets before distributions to the holders of our common stock and preferred stock. Our preferred stock has a preference over our common sock with respect to distributions and upon liquidation, which could further limit our ability to make distributions to our common shareholders. We expect that our leverage strategy will require us to seek substantial amounts of commercial credit and issue debt securities to support our asset growth. Because our decision to incur debt and issue securities in our future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings and debt financings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. Thus, you will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the value of your shares of common stock and diluting your interest in us. We can change this leverage strategy from time to time without shareholder approval. Changes in market interest rates may adversely affect the prices of our stock. The market prices of our common and preferred stock could also be influenced by the yields on alternative investments. An increase in market interest rates could result in higher yields on other investments and could adversely affect the market, volume and price of our common and preferred stock. Furthermore, investors may be attracted to buying and/or selling shares of a REIT based on the distributions on the shares, considered as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of our shares may expect a higher distribution rate, although our business and profitability likely will be adversely affected by such changes, making it more difficult to maintain or increase our distributions to our shareholders. As rates increase, the market price of our shares could therefore decrease. Our earnings and cash distributions may affect the market prices of our stock. Generally, the market value of a REIT’s equity securities is based on the market’s perception of the REIT’s growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, its size and financial condition, whether from operations, sales, acquisitions or refinancings, and on the value of the REIT’s underlying assets. For that reason, shares of our common and preferred stock may trade in the public market at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per common share, after taking into account any preferred stock liquidation preference. Should we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes or working capital reserves instead of distributing the cash flow to our shareholders, the retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our failure to meet market expectations with respect to earnings and cash distributions and financial condition could adversely affect the market price of our common and preferred stock. Certain of our shareholders who received shares of common stock in our reorganization have registration rights to facilitate future public resales of such shares, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Certain of our shareholders who received unregistered shares of our common stock in our reorganization have registration rights, consisting of piggyback registration rights with respect to 10,441,123 shares of our common stock. All of these shares have been registered for resale under our shelf registration and may be sold at any time. Future public resales of these shares may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and limit our ability to increase our assets and related interest income. This could also adversely affect our other securities, including our preferred stock. 65 Tax risks related to our business and structure Failure to qualify as a REIT would negatively affect our operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Since our initial public offering, we have operated so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. In conjunction with our initial public offering and our follow-on equity offering, we have received opinions of our legal counsel, Alston & Bird LLP, that, based on certain assumptions and representations, commencing with our short taxable year ended December 31, 2004, we are organized and operated in conformity with the requirements for qualification as a REIT under sections 856 through 860 of the Code, and our current and proposed method of operation enables us to continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT under the Code. Investors should be aware, however, that opinions of counsel are not binding on the IRS or any court. The REIT qualification opinion only represents the view of Alston & Bird LLP based on its review and analysis of existing law, which includes no controlling precedent. Furthermore, both the validity of the opinion and our qualification as a REIT will depend on our ability to meet various requirements concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding stock, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amount of our distributions to our shareholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, then we would be subject to federal income taxation (including any applicable alternative minimum taxation) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. In addition, we generally would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost our REIT status. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders because of the additional tax liability, and we would no longer be required to make distributions to shareholders. We might be forced to borrow additional funds or liquidate some of our investments in order to pay the applicable tax. In certain circumstances, we may be able to pay a penalty tax and retain our REIT status, notwithstanding our failure to satisfy one or more REIT requirements. We cannot predict, however, whether we would qualify for the relief provisions. REIT distribution requirements could negatively affect our liquidity, profitability and future growth. In order to qualify as a REIT, we generally are required each year to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding any net capital gain. To the extent that we distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to corporate income taxation on our undistributed REIT taxable income. In addition, with respect to any calendar year, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions paid by us are less than the sum of: • 85% of our ordinary REIT income for that year; • 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for that year; and • 100% of our undistributed REIT taxable income from prior years. We intend to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the nondeductible excise tax. However, differences in timing between the recognition of REIT taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or to borrow funds to meet these REIT requirements. Some of our assets may generate substantial mismatches between REIT taxable income and available cash. As a result, our taxable income may exceed our cash available for distribution. Among other things, examples of possible timing differences and mismatches include the following: • Because we may deduct capital losses only to the extent of our capital gains, we may have taxable income that exceeds our economic income. 66 • We will recognize taxable income in advance of the related cash flow if any of our mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities are deemed to have original issue discount. We generally must accrue original issue discount based on a constant yield method that takes into account projected prepayments but that defers taking into account credit losses until they are actually incurred. • We may recognize taxable market discount income when we receive the proceeds from the disposition of, or principal payments on, loans that have a stated redemption price at maturity that is greater than our tax basis in those loans, although such proceeds often will be used to make non-deductible principal payments on related borrowings. • We may recognize taxable income without receiving a corresponding cash distribution if we foreclose on or make a significant modification to a loan, to the extent that the fair market value of the underlying property or the principal amount of the modified loan, as applicable, exceeds our basis in the original loan. The requirement to distribute at least 90% of our net taxable income could cause us to: • sell assets in adverse market conditions; • borrow on unfavorable terms; or • distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in earning assets, future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt. Our distributions may, from time to time, include a return of capital. Amounts distributed will not be available to fund our operating activities and growth. We expect to fund our mortgage loan origination and other operating activities through borrowings from financial institutions, CDOs and future issuances of our common and preferred stock, and trust preferred securities. If we fail to obtain debt or equity capital in the future, then our growth may be limited, which likely would have a negative effect on the value of our common and preferred stock. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to effectively mitigate our interest rate risk. The REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to mitigate our potential exposure to changes in interest rates by requiring us to limit our income in each year from qualified derivative financial instruments, together with any other income not generated from qualified real estate assets, to no more than 25% of our gross income. In addition, we must limit our aggregate income from non-qualified derivative financial instruments, from our provision of services and from other non-qualifying sources, to no more than 5% of our annual gross income. As a result, we may have to limit our use of mitigation techniques that might otherwise be attractive to us. This could result in greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise incur. If we were to violate one or both of the REIT gross income tests but otherwise qualified to retain our REIT status, then we would be subject to a penalty tax generally equal to the greater of: (1) the amount by which we fail the 75% gross income test; or (2) the amount by which 95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) exceeds the amount of our income qualifying under the 95% gross income test, in either case multiplied by a fraction intended to reflect our profitability. If we fail to satisfy the REIT gross income tests, unless our failure was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect, then we could lose our REIT status for federal income tax purposes. We cannot predict whether in all circumstances we will qualify for relief under the Code’s REIT provisions. The tax on prohibited transactions will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing our loans, that would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were to sell a loan or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale for federal income tax purposes. 67 Securitizations involving transfers of mortgage loans by REITs to a real estate mortgage investment conduit (“REMIC”) are treated as sales for tax purposes, which may cause such securitization transactions to be subject to the prohibited transactions tax. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may limit the structures that HomeBanc Corp. utilizes for its securitization financings, even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial for us. Our taxable REIT subsidiary may sell mortgages and use REMIC securitization and financing structures that are considered sales for tax purposes, however. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. In order to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts that we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be required to make distributions to our shareholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution or where we have opportunities to reinvest those funds in attractive businesses or assets. Therefore, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. Recent changes in taxation of corporate dividends may negatively affect the value of our common stock. The Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003, among other things, generally reduces to 15% the maximum marginal rate of tax payable by domestic noncorporate taxpayers on dividends received from a regular subchapter C corporation. This reduced tax rate, however, generally will not apply to dividends paid to domestic noncorporate taxpayers by a REIT on its stock, except for certain limited amounts. This legislation could cause domestic noncorporate investors to view the stock of non-REIT subchapter C corporations as more attractive relative to the stock of a REIT than was the case prior to the enactment of the legislation, because dividends from non-REIT subchapter C corporations generally will be taxed at a lower rate to the investor while dividends from REITs generally will be taxed at the same rate as the investor’s other ordinary income. We cannot predict what effect, if any, the enactment of this legislation may have on the value of the stock of REITs in general or on our common stock in particular, either in terms of absolute price or relative to other investments. Risks related to our company, structure and change in control provisions Maintenance of our investment company act exemption imposes limits on our operations and limits our holdings of mortgage-backed securities. We have conducted and intend to conduct our operations so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”). Accordingly, we do not expect to be subject to the restrictive provisions of the Investment Company Act. The Investment Company Act excludes from regulation entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring “mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” Under the current interpretations of the Staff of the SEC in order to qualify for this exemption, we must, among other things, maintain at least 55% of our assets directly in mortgage loans, qualifying pass-through certificates and certain other qualifying interests in real estate and at least an additional 25% of our assets in the same type of assets. In addition, unless certain mortgage-backed securities represent all the certificates issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgage loans, such securities may be treated as securities separate from the underlying mortgage loans, and thus may not qualify as qualifying interests in real estate for purposes of the 55% requirement. To maintain the exemption, the assets that we may acquire will be limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations promulgated under this Act. In addition, we could, among other things, be required either: • to change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company; or • to register as an investment company; 68 either of which could have an adverse effect on our operations, our governance and costs and the market price for our common stock. Both the Investment Company Act and federal income tax rules significantly limit the types of mortgage-backed securities in which we can invest. This will limit our growth in such assets and our ability to leverage our equity and increase our net interest income through such investments. Our failure to qualify for exemption from registration as an investment company could therefore substantially reduce our ability to use leverage. Any such failure to qualify for such exemption would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The stock ownership limit imposed by our articles of incorporation may inhibit market activity in our stock and may restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to qualify as a REIT under the Code, our shares of capital stock must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months, or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year. Also, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, directly or constructively (by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Code), by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) during the last half of a taxable year. Our articles of incorporation, with certain exceptions, authorize our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT and provide that, unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own, or be deemed to own by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Code, in excess of 9.8% of: • the aggregate Market Price (as defined in our articles of incorporation) of all outstanding shares of all classes and series of our capital stock, or • the aggregate Market Price or the number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may grant an exemption from that ownership limit, subject to any conditions, representations and undertakings as it may determine. This ownership limit could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or which shareholders otherwise may consider to be in their best interest. Some of our executive officers have agreements that provide them with benefits in the event their employment is terminated following a change of control. We have entered into agreements with certain members of our senior management team—Messrs. Flood, Race, John J. Kubiak, Nicolas V. Chater and J. Michael Barber and Drs. Paul Lopez and Dwight “Ike” Reighard—that provide them with severance benefits if their employment ends under specified circumstances following a change in control. These benefits could increase the cost to a potential acquirer of us and thereby prevent or discourage a change of control that might involve a premium price for our shares or which our shareholders may otherwise consider desirable. Certain provisions of Georgia law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation, our bylaws and Georgia law could have the effect of discouraging a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions may delay, deter or prevent tender offers or takeover attempts that our shareholders may believe are in their best interests, including tender offers or attempts that might allow shareholders to receive premiums over the market price of their common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved comments with the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 69 