Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the Company: Risks Related to Our Business GSN did not exercise its right to broadcast future seasons of the WPT and our new broadcast agreement with FSN does not provide for any broadcast fees to be paid to us, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. License fees received from U.S. broadcasters have been our most significant source of revenue. Although we entered into a distribution agreement with FSN in September 2008 to broadcast Season Seven of the WPT television series, the FSN agreement does not provide for any license fees to be paid to us for the broadcast rights. We will generate fees from sponsors by integrating sponsor logos and other advertising materials into our programs and around the broadcast of the shows. In November 2008, we entered into a sponsorship agreement with Poker Kings for FullTiltPoker.net to sponsor Season Seven of the WPT television series in the U.S. and Mexico. There is no assurance that we will be able to find sufficient sponsors for Season Seven of the WPT television series that will pay us amounts aggregating the fees paid by GSN and international television sponsors and licensees for Season Six of the WPT television series. In January 2009, we entered into a distribution agreement with FSN to broadcast Season Eight of the WPT television series. We do not yet have any sponsors for Season Eight. We may be required to pay the cost to produce Season Eight shows for FSN and depending on the amount of sponsor revenues we are able to generate, the lack of license fees in our FSN agreements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our broadcasting agreement with FSN is a new business arrangement, and there is no assurance FSN will be a viable business partner or that they will exercise rights to broadcast future seasons of the WPT, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In September 2008, we entered into an agreement with FSN to broadcast Season Seven of the WPT television series. In January 2009, FSN agreed to broadcast Season Eight of the WPT television series. If FSN elects to discontinue airing the WPT and we cannot replace our FSN agreement with an agreement with a comparable U.S. broadcaster, it may be difficult for us to obtain sponsorship funds, it will be detrimental to the viability of the WPT brand and, consequently, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ClubWPT.com business is currently heavily dependent upon television as a primary source for the generation of new subscribers, which if not achieved could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We spent $927,000 in the fourth quarter of 2008 to produce the ClubWPT.com television show to build awareness and drive traffic to our online subscription website ClubWPT. We will spend approximately $300,000 in the first quarter of 2009 to produce the ClubWPT.com television show. We were disappointed with the rate at which we converted ClubWPT.com television viewers to paying subscription customers at ClubWPT in the fourth quarter of 2008. In the event that we are not 11 Table of Contents able to improve the rate of conversion from television viewer to paying subscription customer, we could incur significant losses in this business in the first quarter of 2009. We may also need to identify a more cost efficient marketing tool to generate new subscribers for ClubWPT. Our reliance on Centaurus Games, LLC as a third party systems provider is subject to system security risks and business viability risks that could disrupt services provided to ClubWPT.com customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses and harm our reputation. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate Centaurus’ network security and misappropriate confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. In addition, computer programmers and hackers may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack their products or otherwise exploit security vulnerabilities in their products. As a result, we could lose existing or potential customers. We are also Centaurus’ primary source of revenue. If we or other Centaurus customers do not provide sufficient business to them, they will face significant financial pressures. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Centaurus experienced a cash flow shortfall and we agreed to defer the payment of certain amounts owed by Centaurus to us. It is possible that the deferral of the payment of amounts owed by Centaurus to us will continue into the first quarter of 2009. If Centaurus is not able to raise additional funding to finance their business, or if we or other Centaurus customers are not able to generate sufficient business for Centaurus, then Centaurus may not be able to continue to be a viable vendor for us. Our efforts to address these risks could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may reduce our revenues, increase our expenses and harm our reputation. Rules and regulations governing sweepstakes, promotions and giveaways vary by state and country and our compliance with these rules and regulations could restrict or eliminate our ability to generate revenues at ClubWPT.com which could materially and adversely impact the viability of this business. Changes in laws or regulations in various states or countries over sweepstakes, promotions and giveaways or a negative finding of law regarding the characterization of the type of online activity carried out on ClubWPT.com could result in our inability to obtain subscribers in those jurisdictions, which in turn could significantly impact our ability to generate revenue. Due to the international nature of our WPT China business, political or economic changes or other factors could reduce our future revenue, increase costs and harm our investment in this business. Our future revenues, expenses and financial condition could be impacted by a variety of factors relating to our WPT China business, including: · changes in China’s economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; · local labor conditions and regulations; · managing a geographically dispersed workforce; · changes in the regulatory or legal environment; · differing technology standards or customer requirements; · import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for contracts or lead to penalties or restrictions; and · difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 12 Table of Contents We depend on third parties to develop and market our operations in China, and we have little control over their day-to-day operations and have no way to ensure that we can monetize our China operations effectively. We recently formed a corporation to do business in China. Prior to this formation, we developed our WPT China operations using third party vendors and consultants in China. We expect to continue to rely heavily on third party vendors and consultants for critical parts of our business in China. Actions by these vendors or consultants may limit or prohibit the continued development of this business or may limit or prohibit our ability to continue to do business in China. We may be adversely impacted by economic factors beyond our control and may incur additional impairment charges to our investment portfolio. As of December 28, 2008, we had $3.9 million of principal invested in auction rate securities (“ARS”). The types of ARS investments that we own are backed by student loans, are guaranteed under the Federal Family Education Loan Program and are AAA or Aaa rated. The estimated fair value of our ARS holdings at December 28, 2008 was $3.3 million, which reflects a $0.6 million impairment loss. The broker that holds our ARS entered into an agreement with the New York Attorney General and various state and federal regulators to either repurchase ARS or to use their best efforts to provide liquidity and other relief for holders of ARS. We entered into an agreement with our broker that requires our broker to buy our ARS at par value during the period June 30, 2010 to July 2, 2012. We have given the broker the right to sell our ARS before that period if they are able to find a buyer that is willing to pay par value for our ARS. The broker has provided a line of credit to us, secured by the ARS held by that broker, equal to 75% of the fair value of the ARS. We borrowed $2,661,000 under that line of credit agreement in February 2009. Our broker’s obligation to repurchase our ARS is not secured by its assets and does not require the broker to obtain any financing to support its performance obligations. The broker has disclaimed any assurance that it will have sufficient financial resources to satisfy its obligations and the obligations are not guaranteed by any other party. If uncertainties in the capital and credit markets continue, these markets deteriorate further or we experience any ratings downgrades on any ARS investments in our portfolio, we may need to further impair the value of our ARS investment portfolio, which could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We received a Nasdaq staff determination letter on August 14, 2008, notifying us that we were not in compliance with the minimum stock listing price requirements of Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) and if we are delisted from Nasdaq, the price of our common stock could drop. Under Nasdaq Marketplace rules, if the closing bid price of our common stock is below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days, we could be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market. Nasdaq Marketplace rules provide the Company with 180 calendar days to regain compliance, which will require the bid price of the Company’s common stock to remain above $1.00 for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. If we do not regain compliance with this rule, Nasdaq Staff will provide written notification that our securities will be delisted. On October 16, 2008, Nasdaq announced the suspension of the enforcement of rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price. This term of the suspension was extended by Nasdaq on December 19, 2008 and the suspension will remain in effect through April 20, 2009. We have until August 17, 2009 to become in compliance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). Our success depends on our brand and any future brands we may develop, and if the value of our brands were to diminish, our business would be adversely affected. Our success depends on our WPT brand, which consists of a portfolio of trademarks, service marks and copyrighted materials. Our portfolio includes, but is not limited to, existing and future episodes of the televised programming produced in connection with our existing and future brands and certain elements of these episodes, trade names and other intellectual property rights. In connection with our branding and licensing operations, we entered into agreements with Brandgenuity and other licensing agents in international territories to seek licensing opportunities for the WPT brand. While specific contractual provisions require that the licensees brought to us by Brandgenuity maintain the quality of our brand, we cannot be certain that our licensees or their manufacturers and distributors will honor their contractual obligations or that they will not take other actions that will diminish the value of our brand prior to our ability to detect and prevent any such actions. 13 Table of Contents There is a risk that we may not be able to protect the format of our episodes, our current and future brands and our other proprietary rights. We are susceptible to others imitating our television show format and other products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. We currently believe that several competitive poker-related television programs use exhibition methods and technology that might infringe on one or more claims of our pending patent applications. We have issued letters to some of the producers of these programs, notifying them that we have intellectual property rights in such technology and that we intend to vigorously enforce such rights in order to protect our proprietary processes. These and other producers of poker-related programming may be well established and may have significantly greater resources than we do. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Any litigation could result in substantial expense, may reduce our profits and may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights upon which we are substantially dependent. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not always protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Imitation of our television show formats and other products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenues. Any litigation or claims against us based upon our intellectual property or other third party rights, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and harm our reputation. In addition, such litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: to cease exploitation of our television series and related products or portions thereof that violate the potentially infringed third party rights or intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenue; to negotiate a license from the holder of the intellectual property or other right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or to modify our television series and related products or portions thereof to avoid infringing the intellectual property or other rights of a third party, which may be costly and time-consuming or impossible to accomplish. Early termination of our agreements with member casinos or violation by member casinos of the restrictive covenants contained in these agreements could negatively affect the size of telecast audiences and lead to declines in the performance of our other lines of business. We entered into written agreements with all of the “member casinos” that host WPT tournament stops. The WPT agreements were originally for a term of five years and, although some member casinos have a bilateral option, most of the agreements provided us with a unilateral option to renew on the same terms for another five years. In September 2004, we exercised our right to renew most of these agreements. However, in each year after its first year of participation, the member casino may elect to withdraw its tournament from the WPT lineup and terminate the agreement by giving us notice by a specified date or, if earlier, a specified length of time before the date of the tournament, which is generally four to six months. While the agreement is in effect and for varying periods of time thereafter, the member casino is prohibited from televising the tournament itself, permitting any third party to televise the tournament or licensing its name, trademarks or likeness to any other party in conjunction with the telecast of a poker tournament. If a significant number of these casinos were to terminate the agreements and/or allow a competing company to telecast their tournaments in violation of these restrictions or after their expiration for the restricted time period, this could result in a decline in our future telecast audiences, which in turn would lead to declines in the performance and success of our other lines of business. To date, twelve member casinos that hosted WPT tour stops no longer participate as hosts of WPT events. We replaced each of these venues with other tour stops and do not believe that the change in tour venues has had a significant impact on the quality of the tour or on our business. Termination or impairment of our relationships with key licensing and strategic partners could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We have developed relationships with key strategic partners in many areas of our business, including poker tournament event sponsorship, merchandise licensing, corporate sponsorship and international distribution. We hope to derive significant income from our licensing arrangements and our agreements with our strategic partners are vital to finding these licensing arrangements. If we were to fail to manage our existing licensing relationships, this failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We would also be materially adversely affected if we were to lose our rights under any of our other key contracts or if the counterparty to any of these contracts were to breach its obligations to us. We rely on a limited number of contracts under which third parties provide us with services vital to our business. 14 Table of Contents These agreements include: · our agreement with Party Gaming, pursuant to which Party Gaming agreed to pay us fees for sponsoring international broadcasts of our programming in international territories, subject to certain requirements regarding the type and amount of advertising and branding we are able to provide them; · our agreement with Brandgenuity, pursuant to which it negotiates third party consumer product licensing agreements; · our agreement with the CLSAC, pursuant to which the CLSAC works with us to develop and market the Traktor Poker Tour; and · our agreement with Centaurus, pursuant to which they operate and manage our online subscription website, ClubWPT.com. If our relationship with any of these or certain other third parties were to be interrupted, or the services provided by any of these third parties were to be delayed or deteriorate for any reason without being adequately replaced, our business could be materially adversely affected. If we are forced to find a replacement for any of these strategic partners, this could create disruption in our business and may result in reduced revenues, increased costs or diversion of management’s attention and resources. In addition, while we have significant control over our licensed products and advertising, we do not have operational and financial control over these third parties, and we have limited influence with respect to the manner in which they conduct their businesses. If any of these strategic partners experiences a significant downturn in its business or were otherwise unable to honor its obligations to us, our business could be materially disrupted. The loss of the services of Steven Lipscomb or other key employees or on-air talent or our failure to attract key individuals could adversely affect our business. We are highly dependent on the services of Steven Lipscomb, who is the creator and Executive Producer of the WPT and PPT television series and currently serves as our President and Chief Executive Officer. We do not currently have an employment contract with Mr. Lipscomb and he may elect to decrease the level of his involvement with us or terminate his employment with us altogether. Our continued success is also dependent upon retention of other key management executives and upon our ability to attract and retain employees and on-air talent to implement our corporate development strategy and our branding and licensing efforts. The loss of some of our senior executives, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. Growth in our business is dependent, to a large degree, on our ability to retain and attract such employees. We seek to compensate and provide incentives to our key executives, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries, stock ownership and bonus plans, but we can make no assurance that these programs will allow us to retain key employees or hire new employees. In addition, our future success may also be affected by the potential need to replace our key on-air talent at an inopportune time, such as midway through the tapings of a season of the WPT television program. Members of our Board of Directors own a large number of the outstanding shares of our common stock and are able to significantly influence our management and operations. Three members of our Board of Directors own 6,714,492 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 33% of our voting power as of December 28, 2008. As a result, these three individuals have a significant impact on the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the future merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentrated ownership could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. As a result, the return on investment in our common stock through the market price of our common stock or ultimate sale of our business could be adversely affected. Our Board of Directors’ ability to issue undesignated preferred stock and the existence of anti-takeover provisions may depress the value of our common stock. Our authorized capital includes 20 million shares of undesignated preferred stock. Our Board of Directors has the power to issue any or all of the shares of preferred stock, including the authority to establish one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences, rights and limitations of such class or series, without seeking stockholder approval, subject to certain limitations on this power under Nasdaq listing requirements. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to provisions 15 Table of Contents of the Delaware General Corporation Law regarding “business combinations.” We may, in the future, consider adopting additional anti-takeover measures. The authority of our Board to issue undesignated stock and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law, as well as any future anti-takeover measures adopted by us, may, in certain circumstances, delay, deter or prevent takeover attempts and other changes in control of our Company that are not approved by our Board of Directors. As a result, our stockholders may lose opportunities to dispose of their shares at favorable prices generally available in takeover attempts or that may be available under a merger proposal and the market price, voting and other rights of the holders of common stock may also be affected. Our quarterly results may fluctuate, causing fluctuation of our stock price that may negatively affect the value of our common stock. Under our sponsorship agreements for the WPT and PPT, revenues are recognized as each episode is aired. Therefore, our quarterly revenue can fluctuate significantly depending on the number of episodes aired in any one quarter. In addition, the sales of consumer products that utilize our licensed intellectual property vary greatly, due to holiday seasons, school schedules and other outside factors. As a result, our financial results can be expected to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, leading to volatility and a possible adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry Our television programming may be unable to maintain a sufficient audience for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. Television production is a speculative business because revenues and income derived from television depend primarily upon the continued acceptance of that programming by the public, which is difficult to predict. Public acceptance of particular programming is dependent upon, among other things, the quality of the programming, the strength of networks on which the programming is telecast, the promotion and scheduling of the programming and the quality and acceptance of competing television programming and other sources of entertainment and information. Popularity of programming can also be negatively impacted by excessive telecasting of the programming beyond viewers’ saturation thresholds. Our ability to create and license our television programming profitably may be negatively affected by adverse trends that apply to the television production business generally. Television revenues and income may be affected by a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. These factors include a general decline in television viewers, pricing pressure in the television advertising industry, strength of the stations on which our programming is telecast, general economic conditions, increases in production costs and availability of other forms of entertainment and leisure time activities. All of these factors, as well as others, may quickly change and these changes cannot be predicted with certainty. Our future licensing opportunities may also be adversely affected by these changes. Accordingly, if any of these changes were to occur, the revenues we generate from television programming could decline. A decline in general economic conditions or the popularity of our brand of televised poker tournaments could adversely impact our business. Because our operations are affected by general economic conditions and consumer tastes, our future success is unpredictable. The demand for entertainment and leisure activities tends to be highly sensitive to consumers’ disposable incomes and thus a decline in general economic conditions could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and the price of our common stock. An economic decline could also adversely affect our corporate sponsorship business, sales of our branded merchandise and other aspects of our business. The continued popularity of our type of poker entertainment is vital in maintaining the ability to leverage our brand and develop products or services that appeal to our target audiences, which, in turn, is important to our long-term results of operations. Public tastes are unpredictable and subject to change and may be affected by changes in the country’s political and social climate. A change in public opinion could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and, ultimately, the price of our common stock. The political or social climate regarding gaming and poker could negatively impact our ability to negotiate future telecast license arrangements and could negatively impact our chances of renewal. Although the popularity of poker, in particular, and gaming, in general, has continued to grow in the U.S. and abroad, gaming has historically experienced backlash from various constituencies and communities. Currently, the legal operational 16 Table of Contents status of Internet-based casinos and card rooms remains unclear in some countries. The U.S. government has taken steps to curb activities that it believes constitutes unlawful online gaming, through legislation such as the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 and through recent arrests of off-shore online gaming operators traveling in the U.S. Based on the uncertain regulatory environment surrounding the marketing and promotion of Internet-based casinos and card rooms to viewers in the U.S., FSN, the Travel Channel and GSN, which have final edit rights to the shows that they telecast, have indicated that they will not display the “dot com” names or logos of Internet-based casinos and card rooms in their telecasts, although they have expressed a willingness to display names and logos from strictly play-for-free “dot net” websites and from our member casinos. However, if FSN, the Travel Channel and GSN elect not to allow the display of “dot net” logos on the WPT, we may not be able to attract other Internet-based casino sponsors or retain existing online card rooms sponsoring our tour. Additionally, increased regulatory scrutiny on Internet gambling sites may eliminate these sites as sources of advertising revenue for television networks that exhibit poker-related programming, thereby potentially impacting the value of such programming to these networks. The television entertainment market in which we operate is highly competitive and competitors with greater financial resources or marketplace presence may enter our markets to our detriment. We compete with other poker-related television programming, including ESPN’s coverage of the “World Series of Poker” and its “World Series of Poker” Circuit Events, NBC’s exhibition of the National Heads-Up Poker Championship and Poker After Dark television shows and GSN’s exhibition of the High Stakes Poker, among others. These and other producers of poker-related programming may be well established and may have significantly greater resources than we do. Based on the popularity of these poker-related televised programs, we believe that additional competing televised poker programs may currently be in development or may be developed in the future. Our programming also competes for telecast audiences and advertising revenue with telecasts of mainstream professional and amateur sports, as well as other entertainment and leisure activities. These competing programs and activities, and the brands that they build may decrease the popularity of the WPT or PPT television series and dilute the WPT brand. This would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition and, ultimately, the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 