ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Our Properties We generate a significant portion of our revenues as a result of our relationships with CalSTRS. If we were to lose these relationships, our financial results and growth prospects would be significantly negatively affected. Our relationships with CalSTRS are a significant factor in our ability to achieve our intended business growth. Our separate account and joint venture relationships with CalSTRS, including the Austin Portfolio Joint Venture in which we invested through our joint venture with CalSTRS, provide us with substantial fee revenues. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, approximately 15.0%, 29.6% and 22.2%, respectively, of our revenue has been derived from fees earned from these relationships. We may also earn fee revenues in the future from the Green Fund as a result of CalSTRS’ commitment to future investments we may make through that partnership. We cannot assure you that our relationships with CalSTRS will continue and we may not be able to replace these relationships with other strategic alliances that would provide comparable revenues. Our interest in TPG/CalSTRS is subject to a buy-sell provision, and is subject to purchase by CalSTRS upon the occurrence of certain events. Under the buy-sell provision either our Operating Partnership or CalSTRS can initiate a buy-out by delivering a notice to the other specifying a purchase price for all the joint venture’s assets; the other venture partner then has the option to sell its joint venture interest or purchase the interest of the initiating venture partner. The purchase price is based on what each venture partner would receive on liquidation if the joint venture’s assets were sold for the specified price and the joint venture’s liabilities paid and the remaining assets distributed to the joint venture partners. In addition, CalSTRS has the ability to initiate this provision upon certain events of default by us under the joint venture agreement or related management and development agreements or upon bankruptcy of our Operating Partnership, or upon the death or disability of either James A. Thomas, our Chairman, President and CEO, or John R. Sischo, one of our Executive Vice Presidents, or the failure of either of them to devote the necessary time to perform their duties (unless replaced by an individual approved by CalSTRS) (a “Buyout Default”), or upon any transfer of stock of our company or limited partnership units in our Operating Partnership resulting in Mr. Thomas, his immediate family and controlled entities owning less than 30% of our securities entitled to vote for the election of directors. Upon the occurrence of a Buyout Default by the Company, CalSTRS may elect to purchase our joint venture interest based on a three percent discount to the appraised fair market value. 7 Table of Contents Most of our fee arrangements under our separate account relationship with CalSTRS are terminable on 30 days’ notice. Termination of either our joint venture or separate account relationship with CalSTRS could adversely affect our revenue and profitability and our ability to achieve our business plan by reducing our fee income and access to co-investment capital to acquire additional properties. Our joint venture investments may be adversely affected by our lack of control or input on decisions or shared decision-making authority or disputes with our co-venturers. We hold interests in each of our operating properties in a joint venture or partnership. As a result, with the exception of One Commerce Square, Two Commerce Square, and the office buildings at Four Points Centre, we do not exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property, joint venture or other entity, including with respect to cash distributions or the sale of the property. Furthermore, we expect to co-invest in the future through other partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests or in sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of a property, partnership or joint venture. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks including partners who may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. These investments may also have the risk of impasses on significant decisions, because neither we nor our partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Disputes between us and our partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their full time and effort on our business. In addition, under the principles of agency and partnership law, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers such as if a partner or co-venturer were to become bankrupt and default on its reimbursement and contribution obligations to us, were to subject property owned by the partnership or joint venture to liabilities in excess of those contemplated by the partnership or joint venture agreement or were to incur debts or liabilities on behalf of the partnership or joint venture in excess of the authority otherwise granted by the partnership or joint venture agreement. In some joint ventures or other investments we make, if the entity in which we invest is a limited partnership, we have acquired and may acquire in the future all or a portion of our interest in such partnership as a general partner. In such event, we may be liable for all the liabilities of the partnership, although we attempt to limit such liability to our investment in the partnership by investing through a subsidiary. Our joint venture partners have rights under our joint venture agreements that could adversely affect us. As of December 31, 2008, we hold interests in 22 of our properties through TPG/CalSTRS, 10 of which are held indirectly through TPG/CalSTRS’ interest in the Austin Portfolio Joint Venture. TPG/CalSTRS requires a unanimous vote of the joint venture’s management committee on certain major decisions, including approval of annual business plans and budgets, financings and refinancings, and additional capital calls not in compliance with an approved annual plan. All other decisions, including sales of properties, are made based upon a majority decision of the management committee, which currently consists of two members appointed by CalSTRS and one member appointed by us. Thus CalSTRS has the ability to control certain decisions for the joint venture that may result in an outcome contrary to our interests. In addition to CalSTRS’ ability to control certain decisions relating to the joint venture, our joint venture agreement with CalSTRS includes provisions negotiated for the benefit of CalSTRS that could adversely affect us. Unless otherwise determined by the management committee of the joint venture, we are required to use diligent efforts to sell each joint venture property generally within five years of that property reaching stabilization, except that the holding period for Reflections I and Reflections II, both of which are 100% leased, will be separately determined by the joint venture management committee. With respect to these two properties, we are required to perform a hold/sell analysis at least annually, and make a recommendation to the management committee regarding the appropriate holding period, which could be less than five years. We have a right of first offer to purchase a joint venture property upon a required sale at a price we propose, and if CalSTRS accepts our offer we must close within 90 days. If we do not exercise the right of first offer and we subsequently fail to effect a sale by the end of the specified holding period, CalSTRS has the 8 Table of Contents right to assume control of the sale process. This may require us to sell a substantial portion of our assets at an inopportune time, or for prices that are lower than could be achieved if we had more flexibility in the timing for effecting sales. TPG/CalSTRS entered into a partnership agreement and syndication agreement with an affiliate of Lehman Brothers, Inc. in relation to the Austin Portfolio Joint Venture. That agreement required us to assist the Lehman affiliate that was the primary equity holder in the joint venture with syndicating a substantial portion of the entity’s equity position by June of 2008. As of December 31, 2008, 33% of the Lehman affiliate’s original equity in the joint venture had been sold to an unrelated institutional investor. We and Lehman were unable to sell the Lehman affiliate’s remaining equity to investors during the syndication period. As a result of the failed syndication, the Lehman affiliate holds 50% of the equity in the joint venture as of December 31, 2008 and retains certain approval rights with respect to an expanded set of major decisions of the joint venture, although we are still in charge of operating, leasing and managing the joint venture assets within approved budgets and guidelines. Also, the other limited partner in this partnership has approval rights over such major decisions. These rights include but are not limited to the right to approve annual business plans and budgets, financings and refinancings, sales of properties, additional capital calls not in compliance with an approved annual plan, and agreements with affiliates. The limited partners also have the right to remove the general partner under certain circumstances. These rights could adversely affect us. The bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. may adversely effect the Austin Portfolio Joint Venture. The Lehman affiliate that owns the equity interest in the Austin Portfolio Joint Venture is 100% indirectly owned by Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. In addition, two Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. affiliates consisting of Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. and Lehman Brothers Inc., are administrative agent and lead arranger, respectively, under the Austin Portfolio Joint Venture’s $292.5 million credit agreement, which includes a $100 million revolving credit facility and a $192.5 million term loan. The $192.5 million term loan has been fully funded by Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. and is secured by certain properties held in the joint venture and secondary liens on other joint venture properties. We submitted a borrowing notice on September 17, 2008 with respect to the full $100 million available under the revolving credit facility, which was not funded. On September 19, 2008, we sent Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. and Lehman Brothers Inc. a notice of default of their obligations under the credit agreement. Both Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc. and Lehman Brothers Inc. have filed bankruptcy proceedings which have stayed any action by the Austin Portfolio Joint Venture to enforce the obligation to fund the revolving credit facility. We cannot offer any assurance that these entities will honor any draw notices we may submit under the credit agreement. If we are unable to enforce our rights to obtain funds under the revolving credit facility, we will be forced to seek alternative debt financing or other financing which may be on less favorable terms, if available at all, and the Austin Portfolio Joint Venture may be obligated to make additional capital calls on the joint venture’s partners. On November 17, 2008, the Austin Portfolio Joint Venture filed a motion with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (the Court) in the bankruptcy case of Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc., et al. seeking to compel Lehman Brothers to accept and honor its obligation to fund the $100 million revolving credit facility under the Credit Agreement with the Austin Portfolio Joint Venture or in the alternative, asking for authority to allow the Austin Portfolio Joint Venture to obtain alternative financing, secured by liens superior to the existing liens in favor of Lehman Brothers. The Austin Portfolio Joint Venture and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. and Lehman Brothers Inc. have agreed to postpone the hearing on the motion and related matters by the Court to March 25, 2009. Commencing in January 2009, the Austin Portfolio Joint Venture has withheld the payment of interest on the $192.5 million term loan as a partial offset for damages caused by the failure of Lehman Brothers to fund the $100 million revolving credit facility. In response, Lehman Brothers has issued a notice of default to Austin Portfolio Joint Venture based on the failure to pay interest, but has not yet taken any actions to enforce any remedies with respect to such alleged default. In the event we are unable to resolve the situation with Lehman Brothers as it relates to the Austin Portfolio Joint Venture, the operations and future prospects of the joint venture could be materially adversely affected, and our investment in the joint venture could be subject to potential impairment. 9 Table of Contents We depend on significant tenants, and their failure to pay rent could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. As of December 31, 2008, the 20 largest tenants for properties in which we hold an ownership interest collectively leased 33.0% of the rentable square feet of space, representing 35.2% of the total annualized rent generated by these properties. Consolidated Rail Corporation, together with its wholly-owned subsidiary New York Central Lines, LLC (“Conrail”), leases approximately 39.7% of the space at Two Commerce Square and accounted for approximately 3.6% of the total annualized rent generated by all of our consolidated and unconsolidated properties as of December 31, 2008. In addition, Conrail’s rental revenues and tenant reimbursements accounted for approximately 11.2% and 16.8% of total consolidated revenue, on a GAAP basis, for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We rely on rent payments from our tenants as a source of cash to finance our business. Any of our tenants may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its financial condition. As a result, a tenant may delay lease commencement, fail to make rental payments when due, decline to extend a lease upon its expiration, become insolvent or declare bankruptcy. In addition, current economic and market conditions increase the possibility that one or more of our tenants will become insolvent. Any tenant bankruptcy or insolvency, leasing delay or failure to make rental payments when due could result in the termination of the tenant’s lease and material losses to our company. In particular, if any of our significant tenants becomes insolvent, suffers a downturn in its business and decides not to renew its lease or vacates a property, it may seriously harm our business. Failure on the part of a tenant to comply with the terms of a lease may give us the right to terminate the lease, repossess the applicable property and enforce the payment obligations under the lease. In those circumstances, we would be required to find another tenant. We cannot assure you that we would be able to find another tenant without incurring substantial costs, or at all, or that if another tenant were found, we would be able to enter into a new lease on favorable terms. We are not aware of an insolvency issue with any of our significant tenants. Bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of our tenants could bar us from collecting pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or their property. A tenant bankruptcy would delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude full collection of these amounts. If a lease is assumed by the tenant in bankruptcy, all pre-bankruptcy amounts due under the lease must be paid to us in full. However, if a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. Any unsecured claim we hold against a bankrupt entity may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. We may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims in the event of the bankruptcy of a large tenant, which would adversely impact our financial condition. As of December 31, 2008, we are not aware of any tenant at our consolidated properties that has filed for bankruptcy protection. Our operating results depend upon the regional economies in which our properties are located and the demand for office and other mixed-use space, and an economic downturn in these regions could harm our operating results. Our operating and development properties are located in three geographic regions of the United States: the West Coast, Southwest and Mid-Atlantic regions. Historically, the largest part of our revenues has been derived from our ownership and management of properties consisting primarily of office buildings. A decrease in the demand for office space in these geographic regions, and Class A office space in particular, may have a greater adverse effect on our business and financial condition than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio. We are susceptible to adverse developments in these regions and in the national office market, such as business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations of businesses, changing demographics, terrorist targeting of high-rise structures, infrastructure quality, increases in real estate and other taxes, costs of complying with government regulations or increased regulation and other factors, and oversupply of or reduced demand for office space. Some of the regional issues we face include the more highly regulated and taxed economy of Southern California and high local and municipal taxes for our Philadelphia properties. Any adverse economic or real 10 Table of Contents estate developments in a local region, or any decrease in demand for office space resulting from the local regulatory environment, business climate or energy or fiscal problems, could adversely impact our revenue and profitability, thereby causing a significant downturn in our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the trading price of our common stock and impairing our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations. Our debt service obligations reduce cash available to fund business growth and may expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2008, our total consolidated indebtedness is approximately $387.9 million. In addition, we own interests in unconsolidated entities subject to total indebtedness in the amount of $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2008. Mortgage loans, which comprise a portion of both the consolidated and unconsolidated indebtedness, are secured by first deeds of trust in the related real property. Mezzanine loans and other secured loans are secured by our direct or indirect ownership interest in the entity that owns the related real property. We have approximately $20.9 million of consolidated debt which matures in 2009. The debt maturing in 2009 includes the Campus El Segundo mortgage loan in the amount of $17.0 million, which we have guaranteed. This loan has a one-year extension option at our election subject to us complying with certain loan covenants. We were in compliance with these covenants as of December 31, 2008 and expect to be in compliance at the extension date. We expect to exercise our option to extend this loan. We plan to repay the remaining $3.9 million of debt maturing in 2009. We have approximately $128.4 million of consolidated debt which matures in 2010. The debt maturing in 2010 includes approximately $36.0 million in nonrecourse senior and junior mezzanine loans secured by our ownership interest in the real estate entities that own Two Commerce Square which mature in January 2010. We will seek to extend or refinance this debt at maturity. The Four Points Centre construction loan in the amount of $28.5 million matures in June 2010. This loan has two one-year extension options at our election subject to certain conditions. The first extension option is subject to completion of the improvements and executed leases representing at least 75% of the net rentable area, among other things. The second extension option is subject to completion of improvements, executed leases representing at least 90% of the net rentable area, and a minimum debt yield, among other things. We have guaranteed the completion of construction and have completed the core and shell of this property. Furthermore, we have guaranteed 46.5% of the principal, interest and any other sum payable under this loan; this guaranty is currently limited to a maximum of $13.3 million. Upon the occurrence of certain events our maximum liability as guarantor will be reduced to 31.5% of all sums payable under this loan, and upon the occurrence of further events our maximum liability as guarantor will be reduced to 25% of all sums payable under this loan. The Murano construction loan, with a balance of approximately $63.9 million as of December 31, 2008 has a maturity date of July 31, 2009, however it has two six-month extension options, which are conditional on the closing of 100 residential units, which has occurred, and therefore we expect to exercise these options, and extend the maturity date to July 31, 2010. This loan is nonrecourse to the Company. We amortize the principal balance of the Murano construction loan with sales proceeds as we close on the sale of condominium units. We have investments in entities owning unconsolidated properties with stated ownership percentages ranging from 6.25% to 50.0%. These unconsolidated entities have approximately $813.2 million of debt maturing in 2009, all of which is subject to extension options at our election subject to certain conditions, all of which extension options the Company intends to exercise. These unconsolidated entities have approximately $1.2 billion of debt maturing in 2010 (including debt extended from 2009 to 2010), approximately $276.3 million of which is subject to extension options at our election subject to certain conditions. 11 Table of Contents We may seek to incur significant additional debt to finance future acquisition and development activities, however debt financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms under current market conditions. In addition, it is possible the required payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash to operate our properties profitably. Our need for debt financing, our existing level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements could have significant adverse consequences, including the following: • our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments or to pay dividends; • we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms; • we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness; • we may be unable to distribute funds from a property to our Operating Partnership or apply such funds to cover expenses related to another property; • we could be required to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms and/or at disadvantageous times; • we could default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure their loans and receive an assignment of rents and leases; • we could violate covenants in our loan documents or our joint venture agreements, including provisions that may limit our ability to further mortgage a property, make distributions, acquire additional properties, repay indebtedness prior to a set date without payment of a premium or other pre-payment penalties, all of which would entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt obligations; • a default under any one of our mortgage loans with cross default provisions could result in a default on other indebtedness; and • because we have agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to maintain certain debt levels to provide the ability for Mr. Thomas and entities controlled by him to guarantee debt of $210 million, including $11 million of debt available for guarantee by Mr. Edward Fox, one of our non-employee directors, and by Mr. Richard Gilchrist, an individual formerly affiliated with Maguire Thomas Partners, we may not be able to refinance our debt when it would otherwise be advantageous to do so or to reduce our indebtedness when our board of directors thinks it is prudent. If any one of these events were to occur, our revenue and profitability could be adversely impacted, causing a significant downturn in our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, and the trading price of our common stock and impairing our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations. We have a substantial amount of debt which bears interest at variable rates. Our failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, $109.4 million of our consolidated debt and $1.1 billion of our unconsolidated debt was at variable interest rates. As of December 31, 2008, interest rate caps have been purchased for $1.0 billion of the unconsolidated floating rate loans. Interest rate hedging arrangements and swap agreements we enter into to cap our interest rate exposure involve risks, including that our hedging or swap transactions might not achieve the desired effect in eliminating the impact of interest rate fluctuations, or that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. As a result, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate fluctuations and this could reduce our revenue, require us to modify our leverage strategy, and adversely affect our expected investment returns. Of the existing interest rate caps, one or more Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. affiliates was the counterparty on the interest rate cap transactions related to our Austin Portfolio Joint Venture Properties. We have replaced the Lehman affiliates as counterparty on four 12 Table of Contents interest rate cap transactions at a cost of $60,000. The last remaining hedging arrangement in which a Lehman affiliate is a counterparty is an interest rate collar agreement for 50% of the loan balance of the Term Loan, or $96.25 million, in which we bought a cap and sold a floor. The Lehman affiliate has stopped accepting payment on this rate collar. We may be unable to complete acquisitions necessary to grow our business, and even if consummated, we may fail to successfully operate these acquired properties. Our planned growth strategy includes the acquisition of additional properties as opportunities arise. We regularly evaluate approximately 20 markets in the United States for office, mixed-use and other properties for strategic opportunities. Our ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully operate them is subject to the following significant risks: • we may be unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, or obtain the necessary debt or equity to consummate an acquisition or, if obtainable, it may not be on favorable terms; • we may need to spend more than budgeted amounts to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties; • we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other real estate investors with more available capital, including other real estate operating companies, real estate investment trusts and investment funds; • competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase the purchase price, even if we are able to acquire a desired property; • agreements for the acquisition of office properties are typically subject to customary conditions to closing, including satisfactory completion of due diligence investigations, and we may spend significant time and money on a potential acquisition we eventually decide not to pursue; • we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations; • market conditions may result in higher than expected vacancy rates and lower than expected rental rates; and • we may acquire properties subject to liabilities without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, for unknown liabilities such as clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the former owners of the properties and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. If we cannot complete property acquisitions on favorable terms, or operate acquired properties to meet our expectations, our revenue and profitability could be adversely impacted, causing a significant downturn in our financial condition, results of operations, trading price of our common stock, and impairing our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations. Our real estate acquisitions may result in disruptions to our business as a result of the burden in integrating operations placed on our management. Our business strategy includes acquisitions and investments in real estate on an ongoing basis. These acquisitions may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management’s attention from day-to-day operations, which could impair our relationships with our current tenants and employees. In addition, if we acquire real estate by acquiring another entity, we may be unable to effectively integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired business. In addition, we may be unable to train, retain and motivate any key personnel from the acquired business. If our management is unable to effectively implement our acquisition strategy, we may experience disruptions to our business. 13 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully complete and operate properties under development, which would impair our financial condition and operating results. A significant part of our business is devoted to the development of office, mixed-use and other properties, including the redevelopment of core plus and value-add properties. Our development, construction and redevelopment activities involve the following significant risks: • we may be unable to obtain construction or redevelopment financing on favorable terms or at all; • if we finance development projects through construction loans, we may be unable to obtain permanent financing at all or on advantageous terms; • we may not complete development projects on schedule or within budgeted amounts; • we may underestimate the expected costs and time necessary to achieve the desired result with a redevelopment project; • we may discover structural, environmental or other feasibility issues with properties acquired as redevelopment projects following our acquisition, which may render the redevelopment as planned not possible; • we may encounter delays or refusals in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy, and other required governmental permits and authorizations; • occupancy rates and rents at newly developed or renovated properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, and may result in our investment not being profitable; • adverse weather that damages the project or causes delays; • changes to the plans or specifications; • shortages of materials and skilled labor; • increases in material and labor costs; • shortages of qualified employees; • fire, flooding and other natural disasters; and • inability to sell or close on the sale of condominium units at Murano. If we are not successful in our property development initiatives, it could adversely impact our revenue and profitability, causing a significant downturn in our business, including our financial condition, results of operations, trading price of our common stock and impairing our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations. Additionally, during 2007 and 2008 the residential housing market experienced a decline and we could experience difficulties in selling or closing on the sale of condominium units at Murano. We face significant competition, which may decrease or prevent increases of the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. We face significant competition from other developers, managers and owners of office and mixed-use real estate, many of which own properties similar to ours in the same regional markets in which our properties are located. We also compete with other diversified real estate companies and companies focused solely on offering property investment management and brokerage services. A number of our competitors are larger and better able to take advantage of efficiencies created by size, and have better financial resources, or increased access to capital at lower costs, and may be better known in regional markets in which we compete. Our smaller size as compared to some of our competition may increase our susceptibility to economic downturns and pressures on rents. Our failure to compete successfully in our industry would materially affect our business prospects. 14 Table of Contents We may be unable to renew leases, lease vacant space or re-lease space as leases expire resulting in increased vacancy rates, lower revenue and an adverse effect on our operating results. As of December 31, 2008, leases representing 5.6% and 7.3% of the rentable square feet of the office and mixed-use properties in which we hold an ownership interest will expire in 2009 and 2010, respectively. Further, an additional 14.7% of the square feet of these properties was available for lease as of December 31, 2008. Rental rates on existing leases above the current market rate at some of the properties in our office and mixed-use portfolio may require us to renew or re-lease some expiring leases at lower rates. If the rental rates for our properties decrease, our existing tenants do not renew their leases or we do not re-lease a significant portion of our available space and space for which leases will expire, our revenue and profitability could be adversely impacted, causing a significant downturn in our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, and the trading price of our common stock and impairing our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations. Current economic and real estate market conditions have resulted in depressed leasing activity recently as a result of tenant unwillingness to make long term leasing commitments given recent financial markets upheaval, and it is unclear how long this may continue to prevail. A significant amount of space at our Two Commerce Square property has historically been leased to Conrail. Approximately half or 375,000 square feet of this lease expired in June 2008 and the remaining half expires in June 2009. Conrail currently subleases substantially all of its space to a number of subtenants. While we have entered into agreements with many of the subtenants for direct leases once their sublease term expires, the rental rates are lower than paid by the current tenant. As a result, we currently expect our aggregate revenues from this property will be lower following the expiration of the Conrail lease in 2009. We have entered into direct leases for all of the 378,000 square feet of Conrail space expiring in 2009. The lease terms range from 5 months to 78 months. If we are unable to lease the remaining 129,000 square feet of the space leased by Conrail in Two Commerce Square until June 2008, our rental revenue (excluding tenant reimbursements revenue) computed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) would decrease by $1.9 million in 2009 as compared to 2008, and $2.2 million in 2010 as compared to 2009. Our growth depends on external sources of capital, some of which are outside of our control. If we are unable to access capital from external sources, we may not be able to implement our business strategy. Our business strategy requires us to rely significantly on third-party sources to fund our capital needs. We may not be able to obtain debt or equity on favorable terms or at all. Since the second half of 2007 we have experienced an increasing tightening of the credit markets, and we may experience difficulty refinancing existing debt or obtaining new debt to complete acquisitions. Any additional debt we incur will increase our leverage. Any issuance of equity by our company will cause dilution to our existing stockholders, and could have a negative impact on our stock price. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on: • our current debt levels, which were $387.9 million of consolidated debt and $2.2 billion of unconsolidated debt as of December 31, 2008; • our current cash flow from operating activities, which was $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008; • our current and expected future earnings; • the market’s perception of our growth potential; • the market price per share of our common stock; • the perception of the value of an investment in our common stock; and • general market conditions. If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, we may not be able to acquire or develop properties when strategic opportunities exist, satisfy our debt service obligations or continue to fund operations. 15 Table of Contents As a result of the limited time during which we have to perform due diligence of many of our acquired properties, we may become subject to significant unexpected liabilities and our properties may not meet projections. When we enter into an agreement to acquire a property or portfolio of properties, we often have limited time to complete our due diligence prior to acquiring the property. To the extent we underestimate or fail to investigate or identify risks and liabilities associated with the properties we acquire, we may incur unexpected liabilities or the property may fail to perform as we expected. If we do not accurately assess the liabilities associated with properties prior to their acquisition, we may pay a purchase price that exceeds the current fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired property. As a result, intangible assets would be required to be recorded, which could result in significant accounting charges in future periods. These charges, in addition to the financial impact of significant liabilities that we may assume, could adversely impact our revenue and profitability, causing a significant downturn in our financial condition, results of operations, trading price of our common stock and impairing our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations. Our efforts to expand our geographic presence and diversify into other regional real estate markets may not be successful, thereby constraining our growth to markets in which we currently operate. We intend to expand our business to new geographic regions where we expect the development, ownership and management of property to result in favorable risk-adjusted investment returns. In order for us to achieve economies of scale, we generally target ownership of 500,000 or more rentable square feet in a market. It may be difficult for us to achieve this level of ownership and our initial entry into a particular market may result in higher administrative expenses for us initially. Presently, we do not possess the same level of familiarity with the development, ownership and management of properties in locations other than the West Coast, Southwest and Mid-Atlantic regions in the United States, which could adversely affect our ability to develop properties outside these regions successfully or at all or to achieve expected performance. We could incur significant costs related to government regulation and private litigation over environmental matters, including with respect to clean-up of contaminated properties and litigation from any harm caused by environmental hazards on our properties. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, a current or previous owner, manager or tenant of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances at the property, and may be held liable to a government entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation, clean-up and monitoring costs incurred by the parties in connection with the actual or threatened contamination. These laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to fault, or whether or not the owner, operator or tenant knew of or caused the presence of the contamination. The liability under the laws may be joint and several for the full amount of the investigation, clean-up and monitoring costs incurred or to be incurred or actions to be undertaken, although a party held jointly and severally liable may obtain contributions from other identified, solvent, responsible parties of their fair share toward these costs to the extent such contributions are possible to obtain. These costs may be substantial, and may exceed the value of the property. The presence of contamination, or the failure to properly remediate contamination on a property may limit the ability of the owner, operator or tenant to sell or rent that property or to borrow using the property as collateral, and may cause our investment in that property to decline in value. Federal regulations require building owners and those exercising control over a building’s management to identify and warn of, by signs and labels, potential hazards posed by workplace exposure to installed asbestos- containing materials and potentially asbestos-containing materials in their building. The regulations also set forth employee training, record keeping and due diligence requirements pertaining to asbestos-containing materials and potentially asbestos-containing materials. Significant fines can be assessed for violation of these regulations. Building owners and managers may be subject to an increased risk of personal injury lawsuits by workers and others exposed to asbestos-containing materials and potentially asbestos-containing materials as a result of these regulations. The regulations may affect the value of a building incorporating asbestos-containing materials or potentially asbestos-containing materials that we own or manage. 16 Table of Contents We are aware of potentially environmentally hazardous or toxic materials at three of our properties in which we hold an ownership interest. Prior to commencing construction at our Murano development property, we engaged in remediation efforts as a result of a gasoline spill that occurred on the premises in April 2002, due to an accident caused by the former tenant’s agent. All soil remediation work has been completed. We are operating under a regulatory requirement to monitor the ground water to achieve four consecutive quarters of acceptable sample results. With respect to asbestos-containing materials present at our City National Plaza and Brookhollow properties, these materials have been removed or abated from certain tenant and common areas of the building structures. We continue to remove or abate asbestos-containing materials from various areas of the building structures and as of December 31, 2008, have accrued $1.0 million for estimated future costs of such removal or abatement at City National Plaza. Federal, state and local laws and regulations also govern the removal, encapsulation, disturbance, handling and/or disposal of asbestos-containing materials and potentially asbestos-containing materials. These laws may impose liability for improper handling or a release to the environment of asbestos-containing materials and potentially asbestos-containing materials. In addition, fines may be imposed on owners or managers of real properties for personal injury or improper work exposure associated with asbestos-containing materials and potentially asbestos-containing materials. Tax indemnification obligations that may arise in the event we or our Operating Partnership sell an interest in either of two of our properties could limit our operating flexibility. We and our Operating Partnership have agreed to indemnify Mr. Thomas against adverse direct and indirect tax consequences in the event that our Operating Partnership or the underlying property joint venture directly or indirectly sells, exchanges or otherwise disposes (including by way of merger, sale of assets or otherwise) of any portion of its interests, in a taxable transaction, in either One Commerce Square or Two Commerce Square. These two properties represented 16.6% of annualized rent for properties in which we hold an ownership interest as of December 31, 2008. The indemnification currently expires October 13, 2013, which may be further extended to October 13, 2016 provided Mr. Thomas and his controlled entities collectively retain at least 50% of the Operating Partnership units received by them in connection with our formation transactions at the time of our initial public offering. We have also agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to make approximately $210 million of debt available to be guaranteed by entities controlled by Mr. Thomas, by Mr. Fox, a non-employee member of our board of directors, and by Mr. Gilchrist, an individual formerly affiliated with Maguire Thomas Partners. We agreed to make this debt available for guarantee in order to assist Mr. Thomas and these other persons in preserving their tax position after their contributions at the time of our initial public offering. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry The current economic environment for real estate companies and credit crisis may significantly adversely impact our results of operations and business prospects. The success of our business and profitability of our operations are dependent on continued investment in the real estate markets and access to capital and debt financing. A long term crisis of confidence in real estate investing and lack of available credit for acquisitions would be likely to constrain our business growth. As part of our business goals, we intend to grow our properties portfolio with strategic acquisitions of core properties at advantageous prices, and core plus and value added properties where we believe we can bring necessary expertise to bear to increase property values. In order to pursue acquisitions, we need access to equity capital and also property-level debt financing. Current disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy and restructuring of major financial institutions, may adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt and the availability and cost of credit in the near future. Presently, access to capital and debt financing options are 17 Table of Contents severely restricted and it is uncertain how long current economic circumstances may last. Any consideration of sales of existing properties or portfolio interests may be tempered by the depressed nature of property values at present. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness depends on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore investor confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. Illiquidity of real estate investments and the susceptibility of the real estate industry to economic conditions could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties. Our ability to achieve desired and projected results for growth of our business depends on our ability to generate revenues in excess of expenses, and make scheduled principal payments on debt and fund capital expenditure requirements. Events and conditions generally applicable to owners and operators of real property that are beyond our control may adversely impact results of operations and the value of our properties. These events include: • vacancies or our inability to rent space on favorable terms; • inability to collect rent from tenants; • difficulty in accessing credit in the present economic environment, in particular for larger mortgage loans; • inability to finance property development and acquisitions on favorable terms; • increased operating costs, including real estate taxes, insurance premiums and utilities; • local oversupply, increased competition or reduction in demand for office space; • costs of complying with changes in governmental regulations; • the relative illiquidity of real estate investments; • changing submarket demographics; and • the significant transaction costs related to property sales, including a high transfer tax rate in the City of Philadelphia. In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults under existing leases. If any of these events were to happen, our revenue and profitability could be impaired, causing a significant downturn in our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, and trading price of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations could be impaired. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that adversely impact our financial condition. All of our commercial properties are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one, and we assess our properties and make alterations as appropriate. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers. Non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. Typically, we are responsible for changes to a building structure that are required by the ADA, which can be costly. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with these 18 Table of Contents requirements thereby limiting the funds available to operate, develop and redevelop our properties and acquire additional properties. As a result, these expenditures could negatively impact our revenue and profitability. Potential losses may not be covered by insurance and may result in our inability to repair damaged properties and we could lose invested capital. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage, wind, earthquake, terrorism, pollution legal liability, business interruption and rental loss insurance under our blanket policy covering all of the properties which we own an interest in or manage for third parties, including our development properties (although we carry only liability insurance for the CalEPA headquarters building under our blanket policy because the tenant has the right to provide all other forms of coverage it deems necessary, and it has elected to do so). We believe the policy specifications and insured limits are appropriate and adequate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage and industry practice. We carry earthquake insurance on our properties located in seismically active areas, which includes our Southern California properties, wind insurance on our properties located in “tier 1” wind zones, which includes our Houston, Texas properties, and terrorism insurance on all of our properties. Our terrorism insurance is subject to exclusions for loss or damage caused by nuclear substances, pollutants, contaminants, and biological and chemical weapons as more specifically excluded under the actual terrorism policies. Some of our policies, like those covering losses due to earthquakes and terrorism, are subject to limitations involving deductibles and policy limits which may not be sufficient to cover losses. We either own or have interests in a number of properties in Southern California, an area especially prone to earthquakes. Under their leases, tenants are generally required to indemnify us from liabilities resulting from injury to persons, air, water, land or property, on or off the premises due to activities conducted by them on our properties. There is an exception for claims arising from the negligence or intentional misconduct by us or our agents. Additionally, tenants are generally required, with the exception of governmental entities and other entities that are self-insured, to obtain and keep in force during the term of the lease liability and property damage insurance policies issued by companies holding ratings at a minimum level at their own expense. Although we have not experienced such a loss to date, if we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged property as well as the anticipated future cash flows from that property, including lost revenue from unpaid rent from tenants. In addition, if the damaged property is subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if this property was irreparably damaged. In the event of a significant loss at one or more of the properties covered by the blanket policy, the remaining insurance under our policy, if any, could be insufficient to adequately insure our remaining properties. In this event, securing additional insurance, if possible, could be significantly more expensive than our current policy. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Our senior management has existing conflicts of interest with us and our public stockholders that could result in decisions adverse to our company. As of December 31, 2008, Mr. Thomas owns or controls a significant interest in our Operating Partnership consisting of 14,496,666 units, or a 37.1% interest (including units beneficially owned by other senior executive officers) as of such date. In addition, our senior executive officers, excluding Mr. Thomas, collectively hold an interest in Operating Partnership units, incentive units (vested and unvested) and common stock aggregating a 5.0% interest in our company. 19 Table of Contents The various terms of these equity and incentive interests could create conflicts of interest with our public stockholders. Members of executive management could be required to make decisions that could have different implications for our Operating Partnership and for us, including: • potential acquisitions or sales of properties; • the issuance or disposition of shares of our common stock or units in our Operating Partnership; and • the payment of dividends by us. For example, an acquisition in exchange for the issuance by our Operating Partnership of additional Operating Partnership units would dilute the interests of members of our management team as limited partners in our Operating Partnership. Dispositions could trigger our tax indemnification obligations with respect to Mr. Thomas. Dividends paid by us to our public stockholders decrease our funds available to reinvest in our business. We have a holding company structure and rely upon funds received from our Operating Partnership to pay liabilities. We are a holding company. Our primary asset is our general partnership interest in our Operating Partnership. We have no independent means of generating revenues. To the extent we require funds to pay taxes or other liabilities incurred by us, to pay dividends or for any other purpose, we must rely on funds received from our Operating Partnership. If our Operating Partnership should become unable to distribute funds to us, we would be unable to continue operations after a short period. Most of the properties owned by our subsidiaries and joint ventures are encumbered by loans that restrict the distribution of funds to our Operating Partnership. The loans generally contain lockbox arrangements, reserve requirements, financial covenants and other restrictions and provisions that prior to an event of default may prevent the distribution of funds from the subsidiaries who own these properties to our Operating Partnership. In the event of a default under these loans, the defaulting subsidiary or joint venture would be prohibited from distributing cash to our Operating Partnership. As a result, our Operating Partnership may be unable to distribute funds to us and we may be unable to use funds from one property to support the operation of another property. As we acquire new properties and refinance our existing properties, we may finance these properties with new loans that contain similar provisions. Some of the loans to our subsidiaries and joint ventures may contain provisions that restrict us from loaning funds to our subsidiaries or joint ventures. If we are permitted to loan funds to our subsidiaries or joint ventures, our loans generally will be subordinated to the existing debt on our properties. Mr. Thomas has a significant vote in certain matters as a result of his control of 100% of our limited voting stock. Each entity that received Operating Partnership units in our formation transactions received shares of our limited voting stock that are paired with units in our Operating Partnership on a one-for-one basis. All of these entities are directly or indirectly controlled by Mr. Thomas, and, as a result, Mr. Thomas controls 100% of our outstanding limited voting stock, or 40.7% of our outstanding voting stock (including outstanding shares of common stock owned by Mr. Thomas and his affiliates) as of December 31, 2008. These limited voting shares are entitled to vote in the election of directors, for the approval of certain extraordinary transactions including any merger or sale of the company, amendments to our certificate of incorporation and any other matter required to be submitted to a separate class vote under Delaware law. Mr. Thomas may have interests that differ from that of our public stockholders, including by reason of his interests held in Operating Partnership units, and may accordingly vote as a stockholder in ways that may not be consistent with the interests of our public stockholders. This significant voting influence over certain matters may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, or could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company. 20 Table of Contents Our success depends on key personnel, the loss of whom could impair our ability to operate our business successfully. We depend on the efforts of key personnel, particularly Mr. Thomas, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and President. Among the reasons that Mr. Thomas is important to our success is that he has an industry reputation developed over more than 30 years in the real estate industry that attracts business and investment opportunities and assists us in negotiations with lenders, existing and potential tenants and industry personnel. If we lost his services, our relationships with these parties could diminish. Mr. Thomas is 72 and, although he has informed us that he does not currently plan to retire, we cannot be certain how long he will continue working on a full-time basis. Many of our other senior executives also have significant real estate industry experience. Mr. Scott has extensive development and management experience on several large-scale projects, including the development, construction and management of One Commerce Square and Two Commerce Square. Mr. Sischo and Mr. Scott are jointly responsible for oversight of our relationship with CalSTRS. Mr. Sischo is responsible for our acquisition efforts. Mr. Ricci has been extensively involved in the development of large, mixed-use and commercial projects. Ms. Laing has served as chief financial officer of two publicly-traded real estate investment trusts. Mr. Rutter has extensive experience, both as a real estate lawyer and as an executive in commercial real estate, including acquisitions, financing, joint ventures and leasing of office and mixed use projects. While we believe that we could find acceptable replacements for these executives, the loss of their services could materially and adversely affect our operations because of diminished relationships with lenders, existing and prospective tenants and industry personnel. A departure of either Mr. Thomas or Mr. Sischo could also have adverse effects on our joint venture relationship with CalSTRS, including the possible sale of our joint venture interest to CalSTRS at 97% of fair value. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter takeover attempts, which may limit the opportunity of our stockholders to sell their shares at a favorable price. Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders by providing them with the opportunity to possibly sell their shares at a premium over the then market price. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions including the following: • vacancies on our board of directors may only be filled by the remaining directors; • only the board of directors can change the number of directors; • there is no provision for cumulative voting for directors; • directors may only be removed for cause; and • our stockholders are not permitted to act by written consent. In addition, our certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue up to 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which will be determined at the time of issuance by our board of directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include voting rights, including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of any preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of our common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change in control, thereby preserving the current stockholders’ control of our company. Finally, we are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. 21 Table of Contents The provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, described above, as well as Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change of control and prevent changes in our management, even if these events would be in the best interests of our stockholders. We could authorize and issue stock without stockholder approval, which could cause our stock price to decline and dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or unclassified shares. Although our board of directors has no intention at the present time, it could establish a series of preferred stock that could, depending on the terms of the series, delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 