Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our business strategy may not succeed in the long term. A major element of our business strategy is to offer consumers a service that allows them to make unlimited local calls and, depending on the service plan selected, long distance calls, from within our service area and to receive unlimited calls from any area for a flat monthly rate without entering into a long-term service contract. This is a relatively new approach to marketing wireless services and it may not prove to be successful in the long term or deployable in geographic areas we have acquired but not launched or geographic areas we may acquire in the future. Some companies that have offered this type of service in the past have not been successful. From time to time, we evaluate our service offerings and the demands of our target customers and may amend, change, discontinue or adjust our service offerings or trial new service offerings as a result. These service offerings may not be successful or prove to be profitable. We have limited operating history and have launched service in a limited number of metropolitan areas. Accordingly, our performance to date may not be indicative of our future results or our performance in future markets we launch. We began offering service in the first quarter of 2002, and we had no revenues before that time. Consequently, we have a limited operating and financial history upon which to evaluate our financial performance, business plan execution and ability to succeed in the future. You should consider our prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties we may encounter, including those frequently encountered by new companies competing in rapidly evolving and highly competitive markets. If we are unable to execute our plans and grow our business, our financial results will be adversely affected. Our business strategy involves expanding into new geographic areas beyond our Core Markets and these geographic areas may present competitive challenges different from those encountered in our Core Markets. Our financial performance in new geographic areas, including our Expansion Markets and Auction 66 Markets, may not be as positive as our Core Markets. We face intense competition from other wireless and wireline communications providers, and potential new entrants, which could adversely affect our operating results and hinder our ability to grow. We compete directly in each of our markets with (i) other facilities-based wireless providers, such as Verizon Wireless, Cingular Wireless, Sprint Nextel, and T-Mobile and their prepaid affiliates or brands, (ii) non- facilities based mobile virtual network operators, or MVNOs, such as Virgin Mobile USA and Amp’d Mobile, (iii) incumbent local exchange carriers, such as AT&T and Verizon, as a mobile alternative to traditional landline service and (iv) competitive local exchange carriers or Voice-Over-Internet-Protocol, or VoIP, service providers, such as Vonage, Time Warner, Comcast, McLeod USA, Clearwire and XO Communications, as a mobile alternative to wired service. We also may face competition from providers of an emerging technology known as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access, or WiMax, which is capable of supporting wireless transmissions suitable for mobility applications. Also, certain mobile satellite providers recently have received authority to offer ancillary terrestrial service and a coalition of companies which includes DIRECTV Group, EchoStar, Google, Inc., Intel Corp. and Yahoo! has indicated its desire to establish next generation wireless networks and technologies in the 700 MHz band. In addition, VoIP service providers have indicated that they may offer wireless services over a Wi-Fi/Cellular network to complete directly with us for the provisioning of wireless services. Many major cable television service providers, including Comcast, Time Warner Cable, Cox Communications and Bright House Networks, also have indicated their intention to offer suites of service, including wireless service, often referred to as the “Quadruple Play,” and are actively pursuing the acquisition of spectrum or leasing access to spectrum to implement those plans. These cable companies formed a joint venture along with Sprint Nextel called SpectrumCo LLC, or SpectrumCo, which bid on and acquired 20 MHz of advanced wireless service, or AWS, spectrum in a number of major metropolitan areas throughout the United States, including all of the major metropolitan areas which comprise our Core, Expansion and Auction 66 Markets. Many of our current and prospective competitors are, or are affiliated with, major companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, personnel and marketing resources than we have (including spectrum holdings, brands and intellectual property) and larger market share than we have, which may affect our ability to compete successfully. These competitors often have greater name and brand recognition and established relationships with a larger base of current and potential customers and, accordingly, we may not be able to compete successfully. In some markets, we also compete with local or regional carriers, such as 27 Table of Contents Leap Wireless International, or Leap Wireless, and Sure West Wireless, some of whom have or may develop fixed-rate unlimited service plans similar to ours. Sprint Nextel recently announced that it will offer an unlimited local calling plan under its Boost brand in certain of the geographic areas in which we offer service. In response, in certain of our markets we have added additional features to our existing service plans. Currently, in our San Francisco, Sacramento, and Dallas/Ft. Worth metropolitan areas we have added to the $35 service plan unlimited long distance in the continental United States, to the $40 service plan unlimited short message and multimedia message services, and to the $45 service plan unlimited mobile Internet browsing and international short message service. The Sprint Nextel calling plans may increase our churn and decrease demand for our services in those metropolitan areas where they offer their unlimited local calling plan. In addition, as a result of the changes in our service plans, we may experience lower revenues, lower ARPU and lower Adjusted EBITDA in the affected metropolitan areas. If Sprint Nextel expands its unlimited local calling plan into other metropolitan areas or if other carriers institute similar service plans, we may make similar changes to our service plans in our other metropolitan areas, add additional features or services to our existing service plans, or make other changes to our service plans, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our future financial results. We expect that increased competition will result in more competitive pricing, slower growth and increased churn of our customer base. Our ability to compete will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors and to keep our costs low. The competitive pressures of the wireless telecommunications industry have caused, and may continue to cause, other carriers to offer service plans with increasingly large bundles of minutes of use at increasingly lower prices and rate plans with unlimited nights and weekends. These competitive plans could adversely affect our ability to maintain our pricing and market penetration and maintain and grow our customer base. We may face additional competition from new entrants in the wireless marketplace, many of whom may have significantly more resources than we do. Certain new entrants with significant financial resources participated in Auction 66 and were designated as the high bidder on spectrum rights in geographic areas served by us. For example, SpectrumCo acquired 20 MHz of spectrum in all of the metropolitan areas which comprise our Core, Expansion and Auction 66 Markets. In addition, Leap Wireless offers fixed-rate unlimited service plans similar to ours and acquired spectrum which overlaps some of the metropolitan areas we serve or plan to serve. These licenses could be used to provide services directly competitive with our services. The auction and licensing of new spectrum, including the spectrum recently auctioned by the FCC in Auction 66, may result in new competitors and/or allow existing competitors to acquire additional spectrum, which could allow them to offer services that we may not technologically or cost effectively be able to offer with the licenses we hold or to which we have access. The FCC has already designated an additional 60 MHz of spectrum in the 700 MHz band which may be used to offer services competitive with the services we offer or plan to offer. Furthermore, the FCC may pursue policies designed to make available additional spectrum for the provision of wireless services in each of our metropolitan areas, which may increase the number of wireless competitors and enhance the ability of our wireless competitors to offer additional plans and services that we may be unable to successfully compete against. Some of our competitors have technological or operating capabilities that we may not be able to successfully compete with in our existing markets or any new markets we may launch. Some of the carriers we compete against provide wireless services using cellular frequencies in the 800 MHz band. These frequencies enjoy propagation advantages over the PCS frequencies we use, which may cause us to have to spend more capital than our competitors in certain areas to cover the same area. In addition, the FCC plans to auction additional spectrum in the 700 MHz band which will have similar characteristics to the 800 MHz cellular frequencies. Many of the wireless carriers against whom we compete have service area footprints substantially larger than our footprint. In addition, certain of our competitors are able to offer their customers roaming services over larger geographic areas and at rates lower than the rates we can offer. Our ability to replicate these roaming service offerings at rates which will make us, or allow us to be, competitive is uncertain at this time. 28 Table of Contents Certain carriers we compete against, or may compete against in the future, are multi-faceted telecommunications service providers which, in addition to providing wireless services, are affiliated with companies that provide local wireline, long distance, satellite television, Internet, media, content, cable television and/or other services. These carriers are capable of bundling their wireless services with other telecommunications services and other services in a package of services that we may not be able to duplicate at competitive prices. We also compete with companies that use other communications technologies, including paging and digital two-way paging, enhanced specialized mobile radio and domestic and global mobile satellite service. These technologies may have certain advantages over the technology we use and may ultimately be more attractive to our existing and potential customers. We may compete in the future with companies that offer new technologies and market other services that we do not offer or may not be able to offer. Some of our competitors do or may offer these other services together with their wireless communications service, which may make their services more attractive to customers. Energy companies and utility companies are also expanding their services to offer communications services. In addition, we compete with companies that take advantage of the unlicensed spectrum that the FCC is increasingly allocating for use. Certain technical standards are being prepared, including Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access, or WiMax, which may allow carriers to offer services competitive with ours in the unlicensed spectrum. The users of this unlicensed spectrum do not have the exclusive use of licensed spectrum, but they also are not subject to the same regulatory requirements that we are and, therefore, may have certain advantages over us. We may face increased competition from other fixed rate unlimited plan competitors in our existing and new markets. We currently overlap with Leap Wireless and Sure West Wireless, who are fixed-rate unlimited service plan wireless carriers providing service in the Sacramento, Modesto and Merced, California basic trading areas. In Auction 66, the FCC auctioned 90 MHz of spectrum in each geographic area of the United States including the areas in which we currently hold or have access to licenses. Leap Wireless also acquired licenses in or has been announced as the high bidder in Auction 66 in some of the same geographic areas in which we currently hold or have access to licenses or in which we were granted licenses as a result of Auction 66. In addition to Leap Wireless, other licensees who have PCS spectrum or acquired spectrum in Auction 66 also may decide to offer fixed-rate unlimited wireless service offerings. In addition, Sprint Nextel recently announced that it is launching an unlimited local calling plan under its Boost brand in certain of the markets in which we offer service. Other national wireless carriers may also decide in the future to offer fixed-rate unlimited wireless service offerings. In addition, we may not be able to launch fixed-rate unlimited service plans ahead of our competition in our new markets. As a result, we may experience lower growth in such areas, may experience higher churn, may change our service plans in affected markets and may incur higher costs to acquire customers, which may materially and adversely affect our financial performance in the future. A patent infringement suit has been filed against us by Leap Wireless which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. On June 14, 2006, Leap Wireless and Cricket Communications, Inc., or collectively Leap, filed suit against us in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall Division, Civil Action No. 2-06CV-240-TJW and amended on June 16, 2006, for infringement of U.S. Patent No. 6,813,497 “Method for Providing Wireless Communication Services and Network and System for Delivering of Same,” or the ’497 Patent, issued to Leap. The complaint seeks both injunctive relief and monetary damages for our alleged infringement of such patent. If Leap is successful in its claim for injunctive relief, we could be enjoined from operating our business in the manner we operate currently, which could require us to redesign our current networks, to expend additional capital to change certain of our technologies and operating practices, or could prevent us from offering some or all of our services using some or all of our existing systems. In addition, if Leap is successful in its claim for monetary damage, we could be forced to pay Leap substantial damages for past infringement and/or ongoing royalties on a portion of our revenues, which could materially adversely impact our financial performance. If Leap prevails in its action, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the actions may consume valuable management time, may be very costly to defend and may distract management attention away from our business. 29 Table of Contents The Department of Justice has informally stated that it would carefully scrutinize any statement by us in support of any future efforts by us to acquire divestiture assets and as a result we may have difficulty acquiring spectrum in the future. We acquired the PCS spectrum for the Dallas/Ft. Worth and Detroit Expansion Markets from Cingular Wireless as a result of a consent decree entered into between Cingular Wireless, AT&T Wireless and the United States Department of Justice, or the DOJ. When we acquired the spectrum, we had certain expectations which were communicated to the DOJ about how we would use the spectrum, including expectations about constructing a combined 1XRTT/EV-DO network on the spectrum capable of supporting data services. Although we have constructed a combined 1XRTT/EV-DO network in those markets, we expected to be able to support our services as demand increased by upgrading the networks to a EV-DO Revision A with VoIP when available. Based upon our discussions at the time with our network vendor, we anticipated that these upgrades would be available in 2006. As a result of a delay in the availability of EV-DO Revision A with VoIP, we contacted the DOJ in September 2006 to inform them that we had determined that it was necessary for us to redeploy the EV-DO network assets at certain cell sites in those markets to 1XRTT in order to serve our existing customers. The DOJ responded with an informal letter, which the Company received in November 2006, expressing concern over our use of the spectrum and requesting certain information regarding our construction of our network facilities in these markets, our use of EV-DO, and the services we are providing in the Dallas/Ft. Worth and Detroit Expansion Markets. We have responded to the initial DOJ request and subsequent follow-up requests. On March 23, 2007, the DOJ sent us a letter in which they did not request any further information from us but stated that the DOJ would carefully scrutinize any statement by us in support of any future efforts by us to acquire divestiture assets. This may make it more difficult for us to acquire any spectrum in the future which may be available as a result of a divesture required by the DOJ. This also does not preclude the DOJ from taking any further action against the Company. We cannot predict at this time whether the DOJ will pursue this matter any further and, if they do, what actions they may take or what the outcome may be. If we experience a higher rate of customer turnover than we have forecasted, our costs could increase and our revenues could decline, which would reduce our profits. Our average monthly rate of customer turnover, or churn, for the year ended December 31, 2006 was approximately 4.6%. A higher rate of churn could reduce our revenues and increase our marketing costs to attract the replacement customers required to sustain our business plan, which could reduce our profit margin. In addition, we may not be able to replace customers who leave our service profitably or at all. Our rate of customer churn may be affected by several factors, including the following: • network coverage; • reliability issues, such as dropped and blocked calls and network availability; • handset problems; • lack of competitive regional and nationwide roaming and the inability of our customers to cost effectively roam onto other wireless networks; • affordability; • supplier or vendor failures; • customer care concerns; • lack of early access to the newest handsets; • wireless number portability requirements that allow customers to keep their wireless phone number when switching between service providers; • our inability to offer bundled services or new services offered by our competitors; and 30 Table of Contents • competitive offers by third parties. Unlike many of our competitors, we do not require our customers to enter into long-term service contracts. As a result, our customers have the ability to cancel their service at any time without penalty, and we therefore expect our churn rate to be higher than other wireless carriers. In addition, customers could elect to switch to another carrier that has service offerings based on newer network technology. We cannot assure you that our strategies to address customer churn will be successful. If we experience a high rate of wireless customer churn, seek to prevent significant customer churn, or fail to replace lost customers, our revenues could decline and our costs could increase which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may not have access to all the funding necessary to build and operate our Auction 66 Markets. The proceeds from the sale of the senior notes and our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility did not include the funds necessary to construct, launch and operate our Auction 66 Markets. In addition to the proceeds from our initial public offering, we will need to generate significant excess free cash flow, which is defined as Adjusted EBITDA less capital expenditures, from our operations in our Core and Expansion Markets in order to construct and operate the Auction 66 Markets in the near term or at all. See “Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Liquidity and Capital Resources.” If we are unable to fund the build-out of our Auction 66 Markets with the proceeds from our initial public offering and excess internally generated cash flows, we may be forced to seek additional debt financing or delay our construction. The covenants under our senior secured credit facility and the indenture covering the notes may prevent us from incurring additional debt to fund the construction and operation of the Auction 66 Markets, or may prevent us from securing such funds on suitable terms or in accordance with our preferred construction timetable. Accordingly, we may be required to continue to pay interest on the secured debt and the senior notes for our Auction 66 Market licenses without the ability to generate any revenue from our Auction 66 Markets. We may not achieve the customer penetration levels in our Core and Expansion Markets that we currently believe are possible with our business model. Our ability to achieve the customer penetration levels that we currently believe are possible with our business model in our Core and Expansion Markets is subject to a number of risks, including: • increased competition from existing competitors or new competitors; • higher than anticipated churn in our Core and Expansion Markets; • our inability to increase our network capacity in areas we currently cover and plan to cover in the Core and Expansion Markets to meet growing customer demand; • our inability to continue to offer products or services which prospective customers want; • our inability to increase the relevant coverage areas in our Core and Expansion Markets in areas that are important to our current and prospective customers; • changes in the demographics of our Core and Expansion Markets; and • adverse changes in the regulatory environment that may limit our ability to grow our customer base. If we are unable to achieve the aggregate levels of customer penetration that we currently believe are possible with our business model in our Core and Expansion Markets, our ability to continue to grow our customer base and revenues at the rates we currently expect may be limited. Any failure to achieve the penetration levels we currently believe are possible may have a material adverse impact on our future financial results and operations. Furthermore, any inability to increase our overall level of market penetration in our Core and Expansion Markets, as well as any inability to achieve similar customer penetration levels in other markets we launch in the future, could adversely impact the market price of our stock. 31 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims of infringement regarding telecommunications technologies that are protected by patents and other intellectual property rights. Telecommunications technologies are protected by a wide array of patents and other intellectual property rights. As a result, third parties may assert infringement claims against us from time to time based on our general business operations, the equipment, software or services we use or provide, or the specific operation of our wireless networks. We generally have indemnification agreements with the manufacturers, licensors and suppliers who provide us with the equipment, software and technology that we use in our business to protect us against possible infringement claims, but we cannot guarantee that we will be fully protected against all losses associated with an infringement claim. Moreover, we may be subject to claims that products, software and services provided by different vendors which we combine to offer our services may infringe the rights of third parties and we may not have any indemnification protection from our vendors for these claims. Further, we have been, and may be, subject to further claims that certain business processes we use may infringe the rights of third parties, and we may have no indemnification rights from any of our vendors or suppliers. Whether or not an infringement claim is valid or successful, it could adversely affect our business by diverting management’s attention, involving us in costly and time-consuming litigation, requiring us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all), require us to pay royalties for prior periods, or requiring us to redesign our business operations, processes or systems to avoid claims of infringement. If a claim is found to be valid or if we cannot successfully negotiate a required royalty or license agreement, it could disrupt our business, prevent us from offering certain services and cause us to incur losses of customers or revenues, any or all of which could be material and could adversely affect our business, financial performance, operating results and the market price of our stock. The wireless industry is experiencing rapid technological change, and we may lose customers if we fail to keep up with these changes. The wireless telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological change. Our continued success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate or adapt to technological changes and to offer, on a timely basis, services that meet customer demands. We cannot assure you that we will obtain access to new technology on a timely basis, on satisfactory terms, or that we will have adequate spectrum to offer new services or implement new technologies. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. For us to keep pace with these technological changes and remain competitive, we must continue to make significant capital expenditures to our networks and to acquire additional spectrum. Customer acceptance of the services that we offer will continually be affected by technology-based differences in our product and service offerings and those offered by our competitors. The wireless telecommunications industry has been, and we believe will continue to be, characterized by several trends, including the following: • rapid development and introduction of new technologies, products, and services, such as VoIP, push-to-talk services, or push-to-talk, location based services, such as global positioning satellite, or GPS, mapping technology and high speed data services, including streaming video, mobile gaming, video conferencing and other applications; • substantial regulatory change due to the continuing implementation of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which amended the Communications Act, and included changes designed to stimulate competition for both local and long distance telecommunications services and continued allocation of spectrum for, and relaxation of existing rules to allow existing licensees to offer, wireless services competitive with our services; • increased competition within established metropolitan areas from current and new entrants that may provide competing or alternative services; • an increase in mergers and strategic alliances that allow one telecommunications provider greater access to capital or resources or to offer increased services, access to wider geographic territory, or attractive bundles of services; and • the blurring of traditional dividing lines between, and the bundling of, different services, such as local telephone, long distance, wireless, video, data and Internet services. For example, several 32 Table of Contents carriers appear to be positioning themselves to offer a “quadruple play” of services which includes telephone service, Internet access, video service and wireless service. We expect competition to intensify as a result of new competitors, allocation of additional spectrum and relaxation of existing policies, and the development of new technologies, products and services. For instance, we currently do not offer certain of the high speed data applications offered by our competitors. In addition, push-to-talk has become popular as it allows subscribers to save time on dialing or connecting to a network and some of the companies that compete with us in our wireless markets offer push-to-talk. We do not offer our customers a push-to-talk service. As demand for this service continues to grow, and if we do not offer these technologies, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining subscribers, which will have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, other service providers have announced plans to develop a WiFi or WiMax enabled handset. Such a handset would permit subscribers to communicate using voice and data services with their handset using VoIP technology in any area equipped with a wireless Internet connection, or hot spot, potentially allowing more carriers to offer larger bundles of minutes while retaining low prices and the ability to offer attractive roaming rates. The number of hot spots in the U.S. is growing rapidly, with some major cities and urban areas being covered entirely. The availability of VoIP or another alternative technology to our competitor’s subscribers could increase their ability to offer competing rate plans, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain customers. We and Royal Street may incur significant costs in our build-out and launch of new markets and we may incur operating losses in those markets for an undetermined period of time. We and Royal Street have invested and expect to continue to invest a significant amount of capital to build systems that will adequately cover our Expansion Markets, and we and Royal Street will incur operating losses in each of these markets for an undetermined period of time. We also anticipate having to spend and invest a significant amount of capital to build systems and operate networks in the Auction 66 Markets. Our and Royal Street’s network capacities in our existing and new markets may be insufficient to meet customer demand or to offer new services that our competitors may be able to offer. We and Royal Street have licenses for only 10 MHz of spectrum in certain of our markets, which is significantly less than most of the wireless carriers with whom we and Royal Street compete. This limited spectrum may require Royal Street and us to secure more cell sites to provide equivalent service (including data services based on EV-DO technology), spend greater capital compared to Royal Street’s and our competitors, to deploy more expensive network equipment, such as six-sector antennas and EV-DO Revision A with VoIP, sooner than our competitors, or make us more dependent on improvements in handsets, such as EVRC-B or 4G capable handsets. Royal Street’s and our limited spectrum may also limit Royal Street’s and our ability to support our growth plans without additional technology improvements and/or spectrum, and may make Royal Street and us more reliant on technology advances than our competitors. There is no guarantee we and Royal Street can secure adequate tower sites or additional spectrum, or that expected technology improvements will be available to support Royal Street’s and our business requirements or that the cost of such technology improvements will allow Royal Street and us to remain competitive with other carriers. Competitive carriers in these markets also may take steps prior to Royal Street and us launching service to try to attract Royal Street’s and our target customers. There also is no guarantee that the operations in the Royal Street metropolitan areas, which are based on a wholesale model, will be profitable or successful. Most national wireless carriers have greater spectrum capacity than we do that can be used to support third generation, or 3G, and fourth generation, or 4G, services. These national wireless carriers are currently investing substantial sums of capital to deploy the necessary capital equipment to deliver 3G enhanced services. We and Royal Street have access to less spectrum than certain major competitive carriers in most of our and Royal Street’s markets. Our limited spectrum may make it difficult for us and Royal Street to simultaneously support our voice services and 3G/4G services. In addition, we and Royal Street may have to invest additional capital and/or acquire additional spectrum to support the delivery of 3G/4G services. There is no guarantee that we or Royal Street will be able to provide 3G/4G services on existing licensed spectrum, or will have access to either the spectrum or capital, necessary to provide competitive 3G/4G services in our metropolitan areas, or that our vendors will provide the necessary equipment and software in a timely manner. Moreover, Royal Street’s and our deployment of 3G/4G services requires technology improvements which may not occur or may be too costly for Royal Street and us to compete. 33 Table of Contents We are dependent on certain network technology improvements which may not occur, or may be materially delayed. The adequacy of our spectrum to serve our customers in markets where we have access to only 10 MHz of spectrum is dependent upon certain recent and ongoing technology improvements, such as EV-DO Revision A with VoIP, 4G vocoders, and intelligent antennas. Further, there can be no assurance that (1) the additional technology improvements will be developed by our existing infrastructure provider, (2) such improvements will be delivered when needed, (3) the prices for such improvements will be cost-effective, or (4) the technology improvements will deliver our projected network efficiency improvements. If projected or anticipated technology improvements are not achieved, or are not achieved in the timeframes we need such improvements, we and Royal Street may not have adequate spectrum in certain metropolitan areas, which may limit our ability to grow our customer base, may inhibit our ability to achieve additional economies of scale, may limit our ability to offer new services offered by our competitors, may require us to spend considerably more capital and incur more operating expenses than our competitors with more spectrum, and may force us to purchase additional spectrum at a potentially material cost. If our network infrastructure vendor does not supply such improvements or materially delays the delivery of such improvements and other network equipment manufacturers are able to develop such technology, we may be at a material competitive disadvantage to our competitors and we may be required to change network infrastructure vendors, the cost of which could be material. We may be unable to acquire additional spectrum in the future at a reasonable cost. Because we offer unlimited calling services for a fixed fee, our customers tend, on average, to use our services more than the customers of other wireless carriers. We believe that the average amount of use our customers generate may continue to rise. We intend to meet this demand by utilizing spectrum-efficient state-of-the-art technologies, such as six-sector cell site technology, EV-DO Revision A with VoIP, 4G vocoders and intelligent antennas. Nevertheless, in the future we may need to acquire additional spectrum in order to maintain our grade of service and to meet increasing customer demands. However, we cannot be sure that additional spectrum will be made available by the FCC for commercial uses on a timely basis or that we will be able to acquire additional spectrum at a reasonable cost. For example, there have been recent calls for reallocating spectrum previously slated for commercial mobile uses to public safety uses in order to enable first responders to establish an interoperable nationwide broadband network. If the additional spectrum is unavailable when needed or unavailable at a reasonable cost, we could lose customers or revenues, which could be material, and our ability to grow our customer base may be materially adversely affected. Substantially all of our network infrastructure equipment is manufactured or provided by a single infrastructure vendor and any failure by that vendor could result in a material adverse effect on us. We have entered into a general purchase agreement with an initial term of three years, effective as of June 6, 2005, with Lucent Technologies, Inc., or Lucent, now known as Alcatel Lucent, as our network infrastructure supplier of PCS CDMA system products and services, including without limitation, wireless base stations, switches, power, cable and transmission equipment and services. The agreement does not cover the spectrum we recently acquired in Auction 66. The agreement provides for both exclusive and non-exclusive pricing for PCS CDMA products and the agreement may be renewed at our option on an annual basis for three additional years after its initial three-year term concludes. Substantially all of our PCS network infrastructure equipment is manufactured or provided by Alcatel Lucent. A substantial portion of the equipment manufactured or provided by Alcatel Lucent is proprietary, which means that equipment and software from other manufacturers may not work with Alcatel Lucent’s equipment and software, or may require the expenditure of additional capital, which may be material. If Alcatel Lucent ceases to develop, or substantially delays development of, new products or support existing equipment and software, we may be required to spend significant amounts of money to replace such equipment and software, may not be able to offer new products or service, and may not be able to compete effectively in our markets. If we fail to continue purchasing our PCS CDMA products exclusively from Alcatel Lucent, we may have to pay certain liquidated damages based on the difference in prices between exclusive and non-exclusive prices, which may be material to us. Our network infrastructure vendor has merged, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Lucent announced on April 2, 2006 that it had entered into a definitive merger agreement with Alcatel, and the shareholders of each company approved the merger. Alcatel and Lucent announced on November 30, 2006 the 34 Table of Contents completion of the merger and the companies began doing business on December 1, 2006 as “Alcatel Lucent.” There can be no assurance that the combined entity will continue to produce and support the products and services that we currently purchase from Alcatel Lucent. In addition, the combined entity may delay or cease developing or supplying products or services necessary to our business. If Alcatel Lucent delays or ceases to produce products or services necessary to our business and we are unable to secure replacement products and services on reasonable terms and conditions, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our network infrastructure vendor may change where it manufactures equipment necessary for our network which could have a material adverse effect on us. As a result of its ongoing operations, Alcatel Lucent may move the manufacturing of some of its products from its existing facilities in one country to another manufacturing facility located in another country and that process may accelerate with the completion of its merger. To the extent that products are manufactured outside the current facilities, we may experience delays in receiving products from Alcatel Lucent and the quality of the products we receive may suffer. These delays and quality problems could cause us to experience problems in increasing capacity of our existing systems, expanding our service areas, and the construction of new markets. If these delays or quality problems occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our business plan and our business operations and finances may be materially adversely affected. No equipment or handsets are currently available for the AWS spectrum and such equipment or handsets may not be developed in a timely manner. The AWS spectrum requires modified or new equipment and handsets which are not currently available. We do not manufacture or develop our own equipment or handsets and are dependent on third party manufacturers to design, develop and manufacture such equipment. If equipment or handsets are not available when we need them, we may not be able to develop the Auction 66 Markets. We may, therefore, be forced to pay interest on our indebtedness which we used to fund the purchase of the licenses in Auction 66, without realizing any revenues from our Auction 66 Markets. If we are unable to manage our planned growth effectively, our costs could increase and our level of service could be adversely affected. We have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to continue to experience substantial growth in the future. The management of rapid growth will require, among other things, continued development of our financial and management controls and management information systems. Historically, we have failed to adequately implement financial controls and management systems. We publicly acknowledged deficiencies in our financial reporting as early as August 2004, and controls and systems designed to address these deficiencies are not yet fully implemented. The costs of implementing these controls and systems will affect the near-term financial results of the business and the lack of these controls and systems may materially adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets. Our expected growth also will require stringent control of costs, diligent management of our network infrastructure and our growth, increased capital requirements, increased costs associated with marketing activities, the ability to attract and retain qualified management, technical and sales personnel and the training and management of new personnel. Our growth will challenge the capacity and abilities of existing employees and future employees at all levels of our business. Failure to successfully manage our expected growth and development could have a material adverse effect on our business, increase our costs and adversely affect our level of service. Additionally, the costs of acquiring new customers could adversely affect our near-term profitability. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the past. We will incur significant time and expense enhancing, documenting, testing and certifying our internal control over financial reporting and our business may be adversely affected if we have other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. In connection with the preparation of our quarterly financial statements for the three months ended June 30, 2004, we determined that previously disclosed financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2004 understated service revenues and net income. Additionally, in connection with their evaluation of our disclosure 35 Table of Contents controls and procedures with respect to the filing in May 2006 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that certain material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting existed as of December 31, 2004. The material weaknesses related to deficiencies in our information technology and accounting control environments, insufficient “tone at the top,” deficiencies in our accounting for income taxes, and a lack of automation in our revenue reporting process. In connection with their review of our material weaknesses, our management and audit committee concluded that our previously reported consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003 should be restated to correct accounting errors resulting from these material weaknesses. We have identified, developed and implemented a number of measures to strengthen our internal control over financial reporting and address the material weaknesses that we identified in 2004. Although there were no reported material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, our management did identify significant deficiencies relating to the accrual of equipment and services and the accounting for distributed antenna system agreements. There can be no assurance that we will not have significant deficiencies in the future or that such conditions will not rise to the level of a material weakness. The existence of one or more material weaknesses or significant deficiencies could result in errors in our financial statements or delays in the filing of our periodic reports required by the SEC. Any failure by us to timely file our periodic reports could result in a breach of the indenture covering the senior notes and our secured credit facility, potentially accelerating payment under both agreements. We may not have the ability to pay, or borrow any amounts necessary to pay, any accelerated payment due under the secured credit facility or the indenture covering the senior notes. We may also incur substantial costs and resources to rectify any internal control deficiencies. As a public company we will incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as compliance with other SEC and exchange listing rules, will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Furthermore, as a public company, SEC rules require that our chief executive officer and chief financial officer periodically certify the existence and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm will be required, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending on December 31, 2007, to attest to our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies that would have to be remediated to satisfy the SEC rules for certification of our internal control over financial reporting. As a consequence, we may have to disclose in periodic reports we file with the SEC significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our system of internal controls. The existence of a material weakness would preclude management from concluding that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, and would preclude our independent auditors from issuing an unqualified opinion that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, we may be in breach of the indenture covering the senior notes and our secured credit facility, potentially accelerating payment under both agreements. In addition, disclosures of this type in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting it may negatively impact our business, results of operations and reputation. Because we may have issued stock options and shares of common stock in violation of federal and state securities laws and some of our stockholders and option holders may have a right of rescission, we intend to make a rescission offer to certain holders of shares of our common stock and options to purchase shares of our common stock. Certain options to purchase our common stock granted since January 2004 and certain shares issued upon exercise of options granted during this period may not have been exempt from the registration and qualification requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 or under the securities laws of a few states. As of December 31, 2006, we granted to employees and former employees options to purchase approximately 2,148,000 shares of our common stock, of which approximately 1,959,000 options remain outstanding with a weighted average exercise price per option of $6.28. We issued these options and shares of common stock in reliance on Rule 701 under the Securities Act of 1933. However, we may not have been entitled to rely on Rule 701 because (1) during certain periods we exceeded certain thresholds in the rule and may not have delivered to our option holders the financial and other information required to be delivered by Rule 701; and (2) during certain periods in 2004 and 2006 we were subject to, or should have been subject to, the periodic reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 36 Table of Contents As a result, certain holders of options and shares acquired from us may have a right to require us to repurchase those securities if we are found to be in violation of federal or state securities laws. In order to address these issues, we intend to make a rescission offer to the holders of options to purchase approximately 1,959,000 shares of our common stock as soon as practicable after the completion of our initial public offering. We will be making this offer to approximately 525 of our current and former employees. If the rescission offer is accepted by all persons to whom it is made, we could be required to make aggregate payments of up to approximately $2.6 million. This amount reflects a purchase price equal to the price paid by the holder for each share of common stock that is the subject of the rescission offer and a purchase price equal to 20% of the aggregate exercise price for each option that is the subject of the rescission offer. It is possible that an option holder could argue that the purchase price for the options does not represent an adequate remedy for the issuance of the option in violation of applicable securities laws, and a court may find that we are required to pay a greater amount for the options. There can be no assurance that the SEC or state regulatory bodies will not take the position that any rescission offers should extend to all holders of options or stock acquired upon exercise of options granted during the relevant periods. The Securities Act of 1933 also does not provide that a rescission offer will extinguish a holder’s right to rescind the grant of an option or the issuance of shares that were not registered or exempt from the registration requirements under the Securities Act of 1933. Consequently, should any recipients of our rescission offer reject the offer, expressly or impliedly, we may remain liable under the Securities Act of 1933 for the purchase price of the options and shares that are subject to the rescission offer. We failed to register our stock options under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and, as a result, we may face potential claims under federal and state securities laws. As of December 31, 2005, options granted under our 1995 option plan and our 2004 equity incentive plan were held by more than 500 holders. As a result, we were required to file a registration statement registering the stock options pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 no later than April 30, 2006. We failed to file a registration statement within the required time period. If we had filed a registration statement pursuant to Section 12(g) as required, we would have become subject to the periodic reporting requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 upon the effectiveness of that registration statement. We have not filed any periodic reports, including quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and periodic reports on Form 8-K during the period since April 30, 2006, which is the latest date upon which we were required to file a registration statement. Our failure to file the periodic reports we would have been required to file had we registered our common stock pursuant to Section 12(g) could give rise to potential claims by present or former stockholders based on the theory that such holders were harmed by the absence of such public reports. In addition to any claims by present or former stockholders, we could be subject to administrative and/or civil actions by the SEC. If any such claim or action is asserted, we could incur significant expenses and divert management’s attention in defending them. Our failure to timely file a registration statement under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, may mean that we may not be able to timely meet our periodic reporting requirements as a public company. As a publicly-traded company, we are now required to file periodic reports with the SEC containing our financial statements within a specified period following the completion of quarterly and annual periods. In 2006, we failed to file a registration statement under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 within the time period required by Section 12(g) of such act as a result of our failure to have in place procedures to inform us that we were required to file a registration statement. Our failure to timely file that registration statement may mean that we may not have all of the controls and procedures in place to ensure compliance with all of the rules and requirements applicable to public companies. Any failure by us to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner could harm our reputation and reduce the trading price of our common stock. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from geographic areas susceptible to natural and other disasters. Our markets in California, Texas and Florida contribute a substantial amount of revenue, operating cash flows, and net income to our operations. These same states, however, have a history of natural disasters which may 37 Table of Contents adversely affect our operations in those states. The severity and frequency of certain of these natural disasters, such as hurricanes, are projected to increase over the next several years. In addition, the major metropolitan areas in which we operate, or plan to operate, could be the target of terrorist attacks. These events may cause our networks to cease operating for a substantial period of time while we reconstruct them and our competitors may be less affected by such natural disasters or terrorist attacks. If our networks cease operating for any substantial period of time, we may lose revenue and customers, and may have difficulty attracting new customers in the future, which could materially adversely affect our operations. Although we have business interruption insurance which we believe is adequate, we cannot provide any assurance that the insurance will cover all losses we may experience as a result of a natural disaster or terrorist attack or that the insurance carrier will be solvent. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health. We have now, and will continue to have, a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2006, we had $2.6 billion of outstanding indebtedness under the senior secured credit facility and the senior notes. Our substantial amount of debt could have important material adverse consequences to us. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest and principal payments on our debt, limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future capital expenditures for existing or new markets, working capital and other general corporate requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the telecommunications industry; • limit our ability to purchase additional spectrum, develop new metropolitan areas in the future or fund growth in our metropolitan areas; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity. In addition, a substantial portion of our debt, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, bears interest at variable rates. Although we have entered into a transaction to hedge some of our interest rate risk, if market interest rates increase, variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow. While we have and may in the future enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher interest rates, any such agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk and any portions not subject to such agreements would have full exposure to higher interest rates. We estimate the interest expense and principal repayments on our debt for the 12 months ending December 31, 2007 to be approximately $228.1 million. Despite current indebtedness levels, we will be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our leverage. We will be able to incur additional debt in the future despite our current level of indebtedness. The terms of the senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing the senior notes will allow us to incur substantial amounts of additional debt, subject to certain limitations. There are no restrictions on our or any of our future unrestricted subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks we could face would be magnified. To service our debt, we will require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us. Our ability to make payments on, or repay or refinance, our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures and operating losses associated with the Expansion Markets and the Auction 66 Markets, will depend largely upon receipt of proceeds from our initial public offering and our future operating performance. Our future performance is subject to certain general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to borrow funds in the future to make payments on our debt will depend on the satisfaction of the covenants in our senior secured credit facility, the indenture covering the senior notes and our 38 Table of Contents other debt agreements and other agreements we may enter into in the future. Specifically, we will need to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility or from other sources in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay interest or principal on our debt, including the senior notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. The terms of our debt place restrictions on certain of our subsidiaries which may limit our operating flexibility. The indenture governing the senior notes and the senior secured credit facility impose material operating and financial restrictions on MetroPCS Wireless and certain of its subsidiaries. These restrictions, subject in certain cases to ordinary course of business and other exceptions, may limit MetroPCS Wireless’ and our ability to engage in some transactions, including the following: • paying dividends, redeeming capital stock or making other restricted payments or investments; • paying interest on any additional indebtedness incurred; • selling or buying assets, properties or licenses; • developing assets, properties or licenses which we have or in the future may procure; • creating liens on assets; • participating in future FCC auctions of spectrum; • merging, consolidating or disposing of assets; • entering into transactions with affiliates; and • permitting subsidiaries (which does not include Royal Street) to pay dividends or make other payments. In addition, although MetroPCS Communications and its unrestricted subsidiaries have the ability to incur new indebtedness, the indenture governing the senior notes and the senior secured credit facility impose restrictions on the ability of MetroPCS Wireless and some of our other subsidiaries to incur additional debt. Because substantially all of our current operations are conducted through MetroPCS Wireless and the other subsidiaries that are subject to these restrictions, our operating flexibility may be limited. Under the senior secured credit facility, MetroPCS Wireless is also subject to financial maintenance covenants with respect to its senior secured leverage and in certain circumstances total maximum consolidated leverage and certain minimum fixed charge coverage ratios. These restrictions could limit MetroPCS Wireless’ and our ability to obtain debt financing, repurchase stock, refinance or pay principal on our outstanding debt, complete acquisitions for cash or debt or react to changes in our operating environment. Any future debt that we incur may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel. Our business is managed by a small number of key executive officers. The loss of one or more of these persons could disrupt our ability to react quickly to business developments and changes in market conditions, which could harm our financial results. As of April 1, 2007, none of our key executives has an employment contract, so any of our key executive officers may leave at any time subject to forfeiture of any unpaid performance awards and any unvested stock options. In addition, upon any change in control, all unvested stock options will vest which may make it difficult for anyone to acquire us. We believe that our future success will also depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified executive, technical and management personnel. We believe competition for highly qualified management, technical and sales personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will retain our key management, technical and sales employees or that we will be successful in attracting, 39 Table of Contents assimilating or retaining other highly qualified management, technical and sales personnel in the future sufficient to support our continued growth. We have occasionally experienced difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel and there can be no assurance that we will not experience such difficulties in the future. Our inability to attract or retain highly qualified executive, technical and management personnel could materially and adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. We rely on third-party suppliers to provide our customers and us with equipment, software and services that are integral to our business, and any significant disruption in our relationship with these vendors could increase our cost and affect our operating efficiencies. We have entered into agreements with third-party suppliers to provide equipment and software for our network and services required for our operations, such as customer care and billing and payment processing. Sophisticated information and billing systems are vital to our ability to monitor and control costs, bill customers, process customer orders, provide customer service and achieve operating efficiencies. We currently rely on internal systems and third-party vendors to provide all of our information and processing systems. Some of our billing, customer service and management information systems have been developed by third-parties and may not perform as anticipated. If these suppliers experience interruptions or other problems delivering these products or services on a timely basis or at all, it may cause us to have difficulty providing services to or billing our customers, developing and deploying new services and/or upgrading, maintaining, improving our networks, or generating accurate or timely financial reports and information. If alternative suppliers and vendors become necessary, we may not be able to obtain satisfactory and timely replacement services on economically attractive terms, or at all. Some of these agreements may be terminated upon relatively short notice. The loss, termination or expiration of these contracts or our inability to renew them or negotiate contracts with other providers at comparable rates could harm our business. Our reliance on others to provide essential services on our behalf also gives us less control over the efficiency, timeliness and quality of these services. In addition, our plans for developing and implementing our information and billing systems rely to some extent on the design, development and delivery of products and services by third-party vendors. Our right to use these systems is dependent on license agreements with third-party vendors. Since we rely on third-party vendors to provide some of these services, any switch or disruption by our vendors could be costly and affect operating efficiencies. If we lose the right to install our equipment on wireless cell sites, or are unable to renew expiring leases for wireless cell sites on favorable terms or at all, our business and operating results could be adversely impacted. Our base stations are installed on leased cell site facilities. A significant portion of these cell sites are leased from a small number of large cell site companies under master agreements governing the general terms of our use of that company’s cell sites. If a master agreement with one of these cell site companies were to terminate, the cell site company were to experience severe financial difficulties or file for bankruptcy or if one of these cell site companies were unable to support our use of its cell sites, we would have to find new sites or rebuild the affected portion of our network. In addition, the concentration of our cell site leases with a limited number of cell site companies could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition if we are unable to renew our expiring leases with these cell site companies either on terms comparable to those we have today or at all. In addition, the tower industry has continued to consolidate. If any of the companies from which we lease towers or distributed antenna systems, or DAS systems, were to consolidate with other tower or DAS systems companies, they may have the ability to raise prices which could materially affect our profitability. If any of the cell site leasing companies or DAS system providers with which we do business were to experience severe financial difficulties, or file for bankruptcy protection, our ability to use cell sites leased from that company could be adversely affected. If a material number of cell sites were no longer available for our use, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. We may be unable to obtain the roaming and other services we need from other carriers to remain competitive. Many of our competitors have regional or national networks which enable them to offer automatic roaming and long distance telephone services to their subscribers at a lower cost than we can offer. We do not have a national network, and we must pay fees to other carriers who provide roaming services and who carry long distance calls made by our subscribers. We currently have roaming agreements with several other carriers which allow our customers to roam on those carriers’ network. The roaming agreements, however, do not cover all geographic areas where our customers may seek service when they travel, generally cover voice but not data services, and at least one 40 Table of Contents such agreement may be terminated on relatively short notice. In addition, we believe the rates charged by the carriers to us in some instances are higher than the rates they charge to certain other roaming partners. The FCC recently initiated a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comments on whether automatic roaming services are considered common carrier services, whether carriers have an obligation to offer automatic roaming services to other carriers, whether carriers have an obligation to provide non-voice automatic roaming services, and what rates a carrier may charge for roaming services. We are unable to predict with any certainty the likely outcome of this proceeding. The FCC previously has initiated roaming proceedings to address similar issues but repeatedly has failed to resolve these issues. Our current and future customers may desire that we offer automatic roaming services when they travel outside the areas we serve which we may be unable to obtain or provide cost effectively. If we are unable to obtain roaming agreements at reasonable rates, then we may be unable to effectively compete and may lose customers and revenues. A recent ruling from the Copyright Office of the Library of Congress may have an adverse effect on our distribution strategy. The Copyright Office of the Library of Congress, or the Copyright Office, recently released final rules on its triennial review of the exemptions to certain provisions of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA. A section of the DMCA prohibits anyone other than a copyright owner from circumventing technological measures employed to protect a copyrighted work, or access control. In addition, the DMCA provides that the Copyright Office may exempt certain activities which otherwise might be prohibited by that section of the DMCA for a period of three years when users are (or in the next three years are likely to be) adversely affected by the prohibition on their ability to make noninfringing uses of a class of copyrighted work. Many carriers, including us, routinely place software locks on wireless handsets, which prevent a customer from using a wireless handset sold by one carrier on another carrier’s system. In its triennial review, the Copyright Office determined that these software locks on wireless handsets are access controls which adversely affect the ability of consumers to make noninfringing use of the software on their wireless handsets. As a result, the Copyright Office found that a person could circumvent such software locks and other firmware that enable wireless handsets to connect to a wireless telephone network when such circumvention is accomplished for the sole purpose of lawfully connecting the wireless handset to another wireless telephone network. A wireless carrier has filed suit in the United States District Court in Florida to reverse the Copyright Office’s decision. This exemption is effective from November 27, 2006 through October 27, 2009 unless extended by the Copyright Office. This ruling, if upheld, could allow our customers to use their wireless handsets on networks of other carriers. This ruling may also allow our customers who are dissatisfied with our service to utilize the services of our competitors without having to purchase a new handset. The ability of our customers to leave our service and use their wireless handsets on other carriers’ networks may have an adverse material impact on our business. In addition, since we provide a subsidy for handsets to our distribution partners that is incurred in advance, we may experience higher distribution costs resulting from wireless handsets not being activated or maintained on our network, which costs may be material. We may incur higher than anticipated intercarrier compensation costs, which could increase our costs and reduce our profit margin. When our customers use our service to call customers of other carriers, we generally are required to pay the carrier that serves the called party and any intermediary or transit carrier for the use of their network. Similarly, when a customer of another carrier calls one of our customers, that carrier generally is required to pay us for the use of our network. While we generally have been successful in negotiating agreements with other carriers that establish acceptable compensation arrangements, some carriers have claimed a right to unilaterally impose charges on us that we consider to be unreasonably high. The FCC has determined that certain unilateral termination charges imposed prior to April 2005 may be appropriate. We have requested clarification of this order. We cannot assure you that the FCC will rule in our favor. An adverse ruling or FCC inaction could result in some carriers successfully collecting such fees from us, which could increase our costs and affect our financial performance. In the meantime, certain carriers are threatening to pursue or have initiated claims against us for termination payments and the likely outcome of these claims is uncertain. A finding by the FCC that we are liable for additional terminating compensation payments could subject us to additional claims by other carriers. In addition, certain transit carriers have taken the position that they can charge “market” rates for transit services, which may in some instances be significantly higher than our current rates. We may be obligated to pay these higher rates and/or purchase services from others or engage in direct connection, which may result in higher costs which could materially affect our costs and financial results. 41 Table of Contents Concerns about whether wireless telephones pose health and safety risks may lead to the adoption of new regulations, to lawsuits and to a decrease in demand for our services, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues. Media reports and some studies have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets are linked to various health concerns, including cancer, or interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Additional studies have been undertaken to determine whether the suggestions from those reports and studies are accurate. In addition, lawsuits have been filed against other participants in the wireless industry alleging various adverse health consequences as a result of wireless phone usage. While many of these lawsuits have been dismissed on various grounds, including a lack of scientific evidence linking wireless handsets with such adverse health consequences, future lawsuits could be filed based on new evidence or in different jurisdictions. If any such suits do succeed, or if plaintiffs are successful in negotiating settlements, it is likely additional suits would be filed. Additionally, certain states in which we offer or may offer service have passed or may pass legislation seeking to require that all wireless telephones include an earpiece that would enable the use of wireless telephones without holding them against the user’s head. While it is not possible to predict whether any additional states in which we conduct business will pass similar legislation, such legislation could increase the cost of our wireless handsets and other operating expenses. If consumers’ health concerns over radio frequency emissions increase, consumers may be discouraged from using wireless handsets, and regulators may impose restrictions or increased requirements on the location and operation of cell sites or the use or design of wireless telephones. Such new restrictions or requirements could expose wireless providers to further litigation, which, even if not successful, may be costly to defend, or could increase our cost of handsets and equipment. In addition, compliance with such new requirements, and the associated costs, could adversely affect our business. The actual or perceived risk of radio frequency emissions could also adversely affect us through a reduction in customers or a reduction in the availability of financing in the future. In addition to health concerns, safety concerns have been raised with respect to the use of wireless handsets while driving. Certain states and municipalities in which we provide service or plan to provide service have passed laws prohibiting the use of wireless phones while driving or requiring the use of wireless headsets. If additional state and local governments in areas where we conduct business adopt regulations restricting the use of wireless handsets while driving, we could have reduced demand for our services. A system failure could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers. To be successful, we must provide our customers reliable service. Some of the risks to our network and infrastructure which may prevent us from providing reliable service include: • physical damage to outside plant facilities; • power surges or outages; • equipment failure; • vendor or supplier failures or delays; • software defects; • human error; • disruptions beyond our control, including disruptions caused by terrorist activities, theft, or natural disasters; and • failures in operational support systems. Network disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and incur expenses. Further, our costs to replace or repair the network may be substantial, thus causing our costs to provide service to increase. We may also experience higher churn as our competitors systems may not experience similar problems. 42 Table of Contents Unauthorized use of, or interference with, our network could disrupt service and increase our costs. We may incur costs associated with the unauthorized use of our network including administrative and capital costs associated with detecting, monitoring and reducing the incidence of fraud. Fraudulent use of our network may impact interconnection and long distance costs, capacity costs, administrative costs, fraud prevention costs and payments to other carriers for fraudulent roaming. Such increased costs could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Security breaches related to our physical facilities, computer networks, and informational databases may cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our physical facilities and information systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, theft, attacks by hackers, or similar disruptive problems. If hackers gain improper access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential personal information concerning our subscribers. In addition, misuse of our customer information could result in more substantial harm perpetrated by third-parties. This could damage our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters We are dependent on our FCC licenses, and our ability to provide service to our customers and generate revenues could be harmed by adverse regulatory action or changes to existing laws or rules. The FCC regulates most aspects of our business, including the licensing, construction, modification, operation, use, ownership, control, sale, roaming arrangements and interconnection arrangements of wireless communications systems, as do some state and local regulatory agencies. We can make no assurances that the FCC or the state and local agencies having jurisdiction over our business will not adopt regulations or take other actions that would adversely affect our business by imposing new costs or requiring changes in our current or planned operations, or that the Communications Act, from which the FCC obtains its authority, will not be amended in a manner materially adverse to us. Taken together or individually, new or changed regulatory requirements affecting any or all of the wireless, local, and long distance industries may harm our business and restrict the manner in which we operate our business. The enactment of new adverse legislation, regulation or regulatory requirements may slow our growth and have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that changes in current or future regulations adopted by the FCC or state regulators, or other legislative, administrative or judicial initiatives relating to the communications industry, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, pending congressional legislative efforts to reform the Communications Act may cause major industry and regulatory changes that are difficult to predict and which may have material adverse consequences to us. Some of our principal assets are our FCC licenses which we use to provide our services. The loss of any of these licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our FCC licenses are subject to revocation if the FCC finds we are not in compliance with its rules or the Communications Act’s requirements. We also could be subject to fines and forfeitures for such non-compliance, which could adversely affect our business. For example, absent a waiver, failure to comply with the FCC’s Enhanced-911, or E-911, requirements, privacy rules, lighting and painting regulations, employment regulations, Customer Proprietary Network Information, or CPNI, protection rules, hearing aid-compatibility rules, number portability requirements, law enforcement cooperation, rate averaging or other existing or new regulatory mandates could subject us to significant penalties or a revocation of our FCC licenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a failure to comply with these requirements or the FCC’s construction requirements could result in revocation of the licenses and/or fines and forfeitures, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. The structure of the transaction with Royal Street creates several risks because we do not control Royal Street and do not own or control the licenses it holds. We have agreements with Royal Street that are intended to allow us to actively participate in the development of the Royal Street licenses and networks, and we have the right to acquire on a wholesale basis 85% of the services provided by the Royal Street systems and to resell these services on a retail basis under our brand in 43 Table of Contents accordance with applicable laws and regulations. There are, nonetheless, risks inherent in the fact that we do not own or control Royal Street or the Royal Street licenses. C9 Wireless, LLC, or C9, an unaffiliated third party, has the ability to put all or part of its ownership interest in Royal Street Communications to us, but, due to regulatory restrictions, we have no corresponding right to call C9’s ownership interest in Royal Street Communications. We can give no assurance that C9 will exercise its put rights or, if it does, when such exercise may occur. Further, these put rights expire in June 2012. Subject to certain non-controlling investor protections in Royal Street Communication’s limited liability company agreement, C9 also has control over the operations of Royal Street because it has the right to elect three of the five members of Royal Street Communication’s management committee, which has the full power to direct the management of Royal Street. The FCC’s rules also restrict our ability to acquire or control Royal Street licenses during the period that Royal Street must maintain its eligibility as a very small business designated entity, or DE, which is currently through December 2010. Thus, we cannot be certain that the Royal Street licenses will be developed in a manner fully consistent with our business plan or that C9 will act in ways that benefit us. Royal Street acquired certain of its PCS licenses as a DE entitled to a 25% discount. As a result, Royal Street received a bidding credit equal to approximately $94 million for its PCS licenses. If Royal Street is found to have lost its status as a DE it would be required to repay the FCC the amount of the bidding credit on a five-year straight-line basis beginning on the grant date of the license. If Royal Street were required to pay this amount, it could have a material adverse effect on us due to our non-controlling 85% limited liability company member interest in Royal Street. In addition, if Royal Street is found to have lost its status as a DE, it could lose some or all of the licenses only available to DEs, which includes most of its licenses in Florida. If Royal Street lost those licenses, it could have a material adverse effect on us because we would lose access to the Orlando metropolitan area and certain portions of northern Florida. Certain recent regulatory developments pertaining to the DE program indicate that the FCC plans to be proactive in assuring that DEs abide by the FCC’s control requirements. The FCC has the right to audit the compliance of DEs with FCC rules governing their operations, and there have been recent indications that it intends to exercise that authority. In addition, the Royal Street business plan may become so closely aligned with our business plan that there is a risk the FCC may find Royal Street to have relinquished control over its licenses in violation of FCC requirements. If the FCC were to determine that Royal Street has failed to exercise the requisite control over its licenses, the result could be the loss of closed licenses, which are licenses that the FCC only offered to qualified DEs, the loss of bidding credits, which effectively lowered the purchase price for the open licenses, and fines and forfeitures, which amounts may be material. In making the changes to the DE rules, the FCC concluded that certain relationships between a DE licensee and its investors would in the future be deemed impermissible material relationships based on a new FCC view that these relationships, by their very nature, are generally inconsistent with an applicant’s or licensee’s ability to achieve or maintain designated entity eligibility and inconsistent with Congress’ legislative intent. The FCC cited wholesale service arrangements as an example of an impermissible material relationship, but indicated that previously approved arrangements of this nature would be allowed to continue. While the FCC has grandfathered the existing arrangements between Royal Street and us, there can be no assurance that any changes that may be required of those arrangements in the future will not cause the FCC to determine that the changes would trigger the loss of DE eligibility for Royal Street and require the reimbursement of the bidding credits received by Royal Street and loss of any licenses covering geographic areas which are not sufficiently constructed that were available initially only to DEs. Further, the FCC has opened a Notice of Further Proposed Rulemaking seeking to determine what additional changes, if any, may be required or appropriate to its DE program. There can be no assurance that these changes will not be applied to the current arrangements between Royal Street and us. Any of these results could be materially adverse to our business. We may not be able to continue to offer our services if the FCC does not renew our licenses when they expire. Our current PCS licenses began to expire in January 2007. We have filed applications to renew our PCS licenses for additional ten-year periods by filing renewal applications with the FCC as soon as the filing windows were opened. A number of the renewal applications have been granted, including all of the licenses that expired in January 2007. The remainder of the applications are currently pending or the filing window has not yet opened. Renewal applications are subject to FCC review and potentially public comment to ensure that licensees meet their licensing requirements and comply with other applicable FCC mandates. If we fail to file for renewal of any particular license at the appropriate time or fail to meet any regulatory requirements for renewal, including 44 Table of Contents construction and substantial service requirements, we could be denied a license renewal and, accordingly, our ability to continue to provide service in the geographic area covered by such license would be adversely affected. In addition, many of our licenses are subject to interim or final construction requirements. While we or the prior licensee have met the five-year construction benchmark, there is no guarantee that the FCC will find our construction sufficient to meet the applicable construction requirement, in which case the FCC could terminate our license and our ability to continue to provide service in that license area would be adversely affected. For some of our PCS licenses, we also have a 10 year construction obligation and for our AWS licenses we have a 15 year construction obligation. For all PCS and AWS licenses the FCC requires that a licensee provide substantial service in order to receive a renewal expectancy. There is no guarantee that the FCC will find our or the prior licensees’ system construction to meet any ten-year build-out requirement or construction requirements for renewal. Additionally, while incumbent licensees may enjoy a certain renewal expectancy if they provide substantial service, there is no guarantee that the FCC will conclude that we are providing substantial service, that we are entitled to a renewal expectancy, or will renew all or any of our licenses, or that the FCC will not grant the renewal with conditions that could materially and adversely affect our business. Failure to have our licenses renewed would materially and adversely affect our business. The value of our licenses may drop in the future as a result of volatility in the marketplace and the sale of additional spectrum by the FCC. The market value of FCC licenses has been subject to significant volatility in the past and Congress has mandated that the FCC bring an additional substantial amount of spectrum to the market by auction in the next several years. The likely impact of these future auctions on license values is uncertain. For example, Congress has mandated that the FCC auction 60 MHz of spectrum in the 700 MHz band in early 2008 and another 40 MHz of AWS spectrum is in the process of being assigned for wireless broadband services and is expected to be auctioned in the future by the FCC. There can be no assurance of the market value of our FCC licenses or that the market value of our FCC licenses will not be volatile in the future. If the value of our licenses were to decline significantly, we could be forced to record non-cash impairment charges which could impact our ability to borrow additional funds. A significant impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our operating income and on the carrying value of our licenses on our balance sheet. The FCC may license additional spectrum which may not be appropriate for or available to us or which may allow new competitors to enter our markets. The FCC periodically makes additional spectrum available for wireless use. For instance, the FCC recently allocated and auctioned an additional 90 MHz of spectrum for AWS. The AWS band plan made some licenses available in small (Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) and Rural Service Area (RSA)) license areas, although the predominant amount of spectrum remains allocated on a regional basis in combinations of 10 MHz and 20 MHz spectrum blocks. This band plan tended to favor large incumbent carriers with nationwide footprints and presented challenges for us in acquiring additional spectrum. The FCC also has allocated an additional 40 MHz of spectrum devoted to AWS. It is in the process of considering the channel assignment policies for 20 MHz of this spectrum and has indicated that it will initiate a further proceeding with regard to the remaining 20 MHz in the future. The FCC also is in the process of taking comments on the appropriate geographic license areas and channel blocks for an additional 60 MHz of spectrum in the 700 MHz band. Specifically, on August 10, 2006, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comment on possible changes to the 700 MHz band plan, including possible changes in the service area and channel block sizes for the 60 MHz of as yet unauctioned 700 MHz spectrum. We, along with other small, regional and rural carriers, filed comments advocating changes to the current 700 MHz bandplan to create a greater number of licenses with smaller spectrum blocks and geographic area sizes. Several national wireless carriers support the current plan and other interested parties have made band plan and licensing proposals that differ from ours by favoring larger license areas, larger license blocks and the use of combinatorial bidding, which we do not favor, to enable applicants to more easily assemble a nationwide foot print. In addition, one commenter advocates reassigning 30 MHz of the 700 MHz band which now is slated for commercial broadband use, to public safety use to create a nationwide, interoperable broadband network that public safety users can access on a priority basis. Another commenter advocates allocating 10 MHz of the 700 MHz band, which now is slated for commercial broadband use, on a nationwide basis, in accordance with specific public safety rules that would force the licensee to fund the construction of a nationwide broadband infrastructure, offer service only on a wholesale basis, and provide public safety with priority access to the 10 MHz of spectrum during emergencies. In September 2006, the FCC also sought comment on proposals to increase the flexibility of guard band licensees in the 700 MHz spectrum. Furthermore, in December 2006, the FCC sought comment on the possible implementation of a 45 Table of Contents nationwide broadband interoperable network in the 700 MHz band allocated for public safety use, which also could be used by commercial service providers on a secondary basis. We cannot predict the likely outcome of those proceedings or whether they will benefit or adversely affect us. There are a series of risks associated with any new allocation of broadband spectrum by the FCC. First, there is no assurance that the spectrum made available by the FCC will be appropriate for or complementary to our business plan and system requirements. Second, depending upon the quantity, nature and cost of the new spectrum, it is possible that we will not be granted any of the new spectrum and, therefore, we may have difficulty in providing new services. This could adversely affect the valuation of the licenses we already hold. Third, we may be unable to purchase additional spectrum or the prices paid for such spectrum may negatively affect our ability to be competitive in the market. Fourth, new spectrum may allow new competitors to enter our markets and impact our ability to grow our business and compete effectively in our market. Fifth, new spectrum may be sold at prices lower than we paid at past auctions or in private transactions, thus adversely affecting the value of our existing assets. Sixth, the clearing obligations for existing licensees on new spectrum may take longer or cost more than anticipated. Seventh, our competitors may be able to use this new spectrum to provide products and services that we cannot provide using our existing spectrum. Eighth, there can be no assurance that our competitors will not use certain FCC programs, such as its designated entity program or the proposed nationwide interoperable networks for public safety use, to purchase or acquire spectrum at materially lower prices than what we are required to pay. Any of these risks, if they occur, may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to numerous surcharges and fees from federal, state and local governments, and the applicability and amount of these fees is subject to great uncertainty and may prove to be material to our financial results. Telecommunications providers pay a variety of surcharges and fees on their gross revenues from interstate and intrastate services. Interstate surcharges include federal Universal Service Fund fees and common carrier regulatory fees. In addition, state regulators and local governments impose surcharges, taxes and fees on our services and the applicability of these surcharges and fees to our services is uncertain in many cases and jurisdictions may argue as to whether we have correctly assessed and remitted those monies. The division of our services between interstate services and intrastate services is a matter of interpretation and may in the future be contested by the FCC or state authorities. In addition, periodic revisions by state and federal regulators may increase the surcharges and fees we currently pay. The Federal government and many states apply transaction-based taxes to sales of our products and services and to our purchases of telecommunications services from various carriers. It is possible that our transaction based tax liabilities could change in the future. We may or may not be able to recover some or all of those taxes from our customers and the amount of taxes may deter demand for our services. Spectrum for which we have been granted licenses as a result of AWS Auction 66 is subject to certain legal challenges, which may ultimately result in the FCC revoking our licenses. We have paid the full purchase price of approximately $1.4 billion to the FCC for the licenses we were granted as a result of Auction 66, even though there are ongoing uncertainties regarding some aspects of the final auction rules. In April 2006, the FCC adopted an Order relating to its DE program, or the DE Order. This Order was modified by the FCC in an Order on Reconsideration which largely upheld the revised DE rules but clarified that the FCC’s revised unjust enrichment rules would only apply to licenses initially granted after April 25, 2006. Several interested parties filed an appeal in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit on June 7, 2006, of the DE Order. The appeal challenges the DE Order on both substantive and procedural grounds. Among other claims, the petitions contest the FCC’s effort to apply the revised rules to applications for the AWS Auction 66 and seeks to overturn the results of Auction 66. We are unable at this time to predict the likely outcome of the court action. We also are unable to predict the likelihood that the litigation will result in any changes to the DE Order or to the DE program, and, if there are changes, whether or not any such changes will be beneficial or detrimental to our interests. If the court overturns the results of Auction 66, there may be a delay in us receiving a refund of our payments. Further, the FCC may appeal any decision overturning Auction 66 and not refund any amounts paid until the appeal is final. In such instance, we may be forced to pay interest on the payments made to the FCC without receiving any interest on such payments from the FCC. If the results of Auction 66 were overturned and we receive a refund, the delay in the return of our money and the loss of any amounts spent to develop the licenses in the interim may affect our financial results and the loss of the licenses may affect our business plan. Additionally, such refund would be without interest. In the meantime we would have been obligated to pay interest to our lenders on the amounts we advanced to the FCC during the interim period and such interest amounts may be material. 46 Table of Contents We may be delayed in starting operations in the Auction 66 Markets because the incumbent licensees may have unreasonable demands for relocation or may refuse to relocate. The spectrum allocated for AWS currently is utilized by a variety of categories of existing licensees (Broadband Radio Service, Fixed Service) as well as governmental users. The FCC rules provide that a portion of the money raised in Auction 66 will be used to reimburse the relocation costs of certain governmental users from the AWS band. However, not all governmental users are obligated to relocate. To foster the relocation of non-governmental incumbent licensees, the FCC also adopted a transition and cost sharing plan under which incumbent users can be reimbursed for relocating out of the AWS band with the costs of relocation being shared by AWS licensees benefiting from the relocation. The FCC has established rules requiring the new AWS licensee and the non-governmental incumbent user to negotiate voluntarily for up to three years before the non-governmental incumbent licensee is subject to mandatory relocation. We are not able to determine with any certainty the costs we may incur to relocate the non-governmental incumbent licenses in the Auction 66 Markets or the time it will take to clear the AWS spectrum in those areas. If any federal government users refuse to relocate out of the AWS band in a metropolitan area where we have been granted a license, we may be delayed or prevented from serving certain geographic areas or customers within the metropolitan area and such inability may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, and our future prospects. In addition, if any of the incumbent users refuse to voluntarily relocate, we may be delayed in using the AWS spectrum granted to us and such delay may have a material adverse effect on our ability to serve the metropolitan areas, our financial performance, and our future prospects. The FCC may adopt rules requiring new point-to-multipoint emergency alert capabilities that would require us to make costly investments in new network equipment and consumer handsets. In 2004, the FCC initiated a proceeding to update and modernize its systems for distributing emergency broadcast alerts. Television stations, radio broadcasters and cable systems currently are required to maintain emergency broadcast equipment capable of retransmitting emergency messages received from a federal agency. As part of its attempts to modernize the emergency alert system, the FCC in its proceeding is addressing the feasibility of requiring wireless providers, such as us, to distribute emergency information through our wireless networks. Unlike broadcast and cable networks, however, our infrastructure and protocols — like those of all other similarly-situated wireless broadband PCS carriers — are optimized for the delivery of individual messages on a point-to-point basis, and not for delivery of messages on a point-to-multipoint basis, such as all subscribers within a defined geographic area. While multiple proposals have been discussed in the FCC proceeding, including limited proposals to use existing SMS capabilities on a short-term basis, the FCC has not yet ruled and therefore we are not able to assess the short- and long-term costs of meeting any future FCC requirements to provide emergency and alert service, should the FCC adopt such requirements. Congress recently passed the Warning, Alert, and Response Network Act, or the Act, which was signed into law. In the Act, Congress provided for the establishment, within 60 days of enactment, of an advisory committee to provide recommendations to the FCC on, and the FCC is required to complete a proceeding to adopt, relevant technical standards, protocols, procedures and other technical requirements based on such recommendations necessary to enable alerting capability for commercial mobile radio service, or CMRS, providers that voluntarily elect to transmit emergency alerts. Under the Act, a CMRS carrier can elect not to participate in providing such alerting capability. If a CMRS carrier elects to participate, the carrier may not charge separately for the alerting capability and the CMRS carrier’s liability related to or any harm resulting from the transmission of, or failure to transmit, an emergency is limited. Within a relatively short period of time after receiving the recommendations from the advisory committee, the FCC is obligated to complete its rulemaking implementing such rules. Adoption of such requirements, however, could require us to purchase new or additional equipment and may also require consumers to purchase new handsets. Until the FCC rules, we do not know if it will adopt such requirements, and if it does, what their impact will be on our network and service. FCC approval for the sale of our stock, if required, may not be forthcoming or may result in adverse conditions to the business or to the holders of our stock. If the sale of our stock would cause a change in control of us under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended and the FCC’s rules, regulations or policies promulgated thereunder, the prior approval of the FCC would be required prior to any such sale. There can be no assurance that, at the time the sale is contemplated, the FCC would grant such an approval, or that the FCC would grant such an approval without adverse conditions. 47 Table of Contents General Matters We are currently controlled by a limited number of stockholders, and their interests may be different from yours. A significant portion of the voting power of our capital stock is concentrated in the hands of a few shareholders who also are either members of our board of directors or can appoint directors to the board. M/C Venture Partners, Accel Partners, TA Associates, Madison Dearborn Partners, and Mr. Roger D. Linquist, our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board, all can appoint members to our board of directors and these stockholders, along with the holders of our Series D Preferred Stock as a class, elect a majority of our directors. In addition, all of our directors collectively own or control in excess of 50% of the voting power of the shares of our capital stock on an as-converted basis. Stockholders holding over 10% of the voting power also hold collectively in excess of 38% of the voting power of our capital stock. These stockholders will have the ability to significantly influence whether required consents can be obtained and thus influence our ability to enter into significant corporate transactions and these stockholders may have different interests than the other holders of our common stock. Ownership of shares of our common stock, Series D Preferred Stock and/or Series E Preferred Stock is an illiquid investment. Although we have filed a registration statement for an initial public offering of our common stock and have applied to list our stock on the New York Stock Exchange upon completion of the offering, there is currently no established trading market for the shares of our common stock, Series D Preferred Stock and Series E Preferred Stock. There can be no assurance that our initial public offering will be successful or that a trading market will develop. Holders of shares of common stock and preferred stock are subject to the transfer limitations contained in the Second Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement, dated August 30, 2005, as amended, by and between us and certain of our stockholders, including, among other things, co-sale rights of other stockholders. The co-sale rights make it less likely that a stockholder desiring to sell his, her or its equity interest will be able to sell any amount of its investment in excess of the percentage ownership of us held by such stockholder. As such, a continuing investment in the shares of common stock and/or preferred stock may result in a lack of liquidity with respect to such stock for an indefinite period of time. Our stockholder rights plan could prevent a change in control of our Company in instances in which some stockholders may believe a change in control is in their best interests. In connection with our planned initial public offering, our board of directors has approved entering into a rights agreement that establishes our stockholder rights plan, or Rights Plan. Pursuant to the Rights Plan, we will issue to our stockholders one preferred stock purchase right for each outstanding share of our common stock as of March 27, 2007. Each right, when exercisable, will entitle its holder to purchase from us a unit consisting of one one-thousandth of a share of series A junior participating preferred stock at a purchase price to be determined by our board of directors at the time the Rights Plan was adopted. Our Rights Plan is intended to protect stockholders in the event of an unfair or coercive offer to acquire our Company and to provide our board of directors with adequate time to evaluate unsolicited offers. The Rights Plan may have anti-takeover effects. The Rights Plan will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms that our board of directors does not believe are in our best interests and those of our stockholders and may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. Conflicts of interest may arise because some of our directors are principals of our stockholders, and we have waived our rights to certain corporate opportunities. Our board of directors includes representatives from Accel Partners, TA Associates, Madison Dearborn Capital Partners and M/C Venture Partners. Those stockholders and their respective affiliates may invest in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us or companies in which they are currently invested may already compete with us. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of those stockholders or their respective affiliates and the interests of our other stockholders arise, these directors may not be disinterested. Under Delaware law, transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest are generally permissible so long as (1) the material facts relating to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are 48 Table of Contents disclosed to our board of directors and a majority of our disinterested directors approves the transaction, (2) the material facts relating to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our stockholders and a majority of our disinterested stockholders approves the transaction, or (3) the transaction is otherwise fair to us. Also, pursuant to the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our non-employee directors, including the representatives from Accel Partners, TA Associates, Madison Dearborn Capital Partners and M/C Venture Partners, are not required to offer us any corporate opportunity of which they become aware and could take any such opportunity for themselves or offer it to other companies in which they have an investment, unless such opportunity is expressly offered to them in their capacity as a director of our Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 