Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the Company: 9 Table of Contents An investment in our common stock is very risky. You may lose the entire amount of your investment. Prior to making an investment decision, you should carefully review this entire prospectus and consider the following risk factors: The Company has become a development stage company with cash and investments, certain international licensing agreements and a participation in future WPT and PPT brand revenues, but has no operating history on which investors can evaluate its ability to achieve stated business objectives. Now that the Transaction is closed, substantially all of the Company’s operating assets other than cash, investments and certain other assets have been sold to Buyer. We should now be considered a development stage company with no historic operating results. We will generate revenues from our international licensing agreements of Season Seven of the WPT television series (through Q2 2010), our participation in Buyer’s revenue generated by the business and assets we sold to Buyer, and we will have general and administrative expenses to remain a public company and to search for a new company to develop or acquire. There is no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of acquiring or developing a new business. The Company has not decided upon a specific merger, asset acquisition, reorganization or other business combination and cannot guarantee that the Company will be able to successfully consummate any such transaction. Buyer or alternatively its parent company, ElectraWorks Ltd., may not honor all of their obligations in connection with the Transaction. Buyer has made significant representations, warranties and commitments to the Company about various matters including the commitment to pay the Company 5% of future gross gaming revenues less certain taxes and 5% of other future gross revenues less certain taxes and costs earned with the purchased assets. Buyer has agreed that the future gaming and other revenue-based participation amount will be at least $3 million over the three year period following the close of the asset purchase agreement, or otherwise Buyer will make up the shortfall to $3 million at the end of the period. ElectraWorks Ltd. (“Parent”) has guaranteed all of Buyer’s obligations in connection with the Transaction. Buyer or alternatively Parent may not honor all of their obligations in connection with the Transaction. The valuation of the Royalty Stream is based on assumption that may turn out to be invalid or untrue. We engaged BDO Valuation Advisors, LLC (“BDO”) to ascertain the value of the Royalty Stream, which is recorded on our balance sheet as of January 3, 2010. BDO’s valuation of the Royalty Stream was based on assumptions and projections based on our historical and prospective financial statements, as well as assumptions based on future events that may turn out to be invalid or untrue. Therefore, the value of the Royalty Stream over time may differ significantly from the value recorded on our balance sheet, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. You will not receive protections afforded stockholders of certain blank check companies. Until we acquire or develop a new business, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under U.S. securities laws. Our cash and investments were not, however, obtained through an initial public offering with the intention of being used to acquire or develop a business like other blank check companies. Companies that complete an initial public offering and have less than $5.0 million of net tangible assets are regulated by SEC 10 Table of Contents Rule 419 that is designed to protect stockholders in blank check companies. Accordingly, Company stockholders will not receive the benefits or protections of that rule. Among other things, this means that our common stock remains immediately tradable; at least 90% of the initial public offering proceeds are not held in an escrow account; investments are not restricted to deposits under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, money market funds meeting the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940 or investments that are direct obligations of or guaranteed by the U.S.; investors will not have their investment refunded if they disapprove of a proposed acquisition; we are not obligated to spend at lease 80% of the funds held in escrow for an acquisition; and we will have longer than 18 months to complete a business combination. Large blank check special purpose acquisition companies that complete an initial public offering and have more than $5.0 million of net tangible assets are also not protected by Rule 419. These companies, however, during the initial public offering process usually agree to restrictions in their certificate of incorporation that are similar to restrictions contained in Rule 419. Among other things, large blank check special purpose acquisition companies generally agree to place 85% or more of the initial public offering proceeds in an escrow account; investments are generally restricted to money market funds meeting the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940 or short-term U.S. government securities such as treasury bills; investors generally have their investment refunded if they disapprove of a proposed acquisition; they are generally obligated to spend 80% of the funds held in escrow for the acquisition and they generally have 18 to 24 months to complete a business combination. Our cash and investments were not, however, obtained through an initial public offering with the intention of being used to acquire or develop a new business like large blank check special purpose acquisition companies and we are not similarly restricted. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5.0 million or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: · make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents that identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and that describe the market for these “penny stocks,” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effect customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. 11 Table of Contents Until the Company selects a particular industry or target business with which to complete a business combination, you will be unable to ascertain the merits or risks of the industry or business in which we may ultimately operate. We intend to develop or acquire a company with principal business operations in an industry that we believe will provide significant opportunities for growth and we are not limited to any particular industry or type of business. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business or businesses with which we may ultimately enter a business combination. Although we will evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that all of the significant risks present in that target business will be properly assessed. Even if we properly assess those risks, some of them may be outside of our control or ability to affect. Resources will be expended in researching potential acquisitions that might not be consummated. The investigation of target businesses and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention in addition to costs for accountants, attorneys and others. We will incur operating losses, resulting from payroll, rent and other overhead fees. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the business combination for any number of reasons including those beyond our control. If an acquired business does not perform up to expectations, our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted. In order to meet our disclosure and financial reporting obligations under federal securities laws, and in order to develop and seek to execute strategic plans for how we can increase the revenues and/or profitability of a target business, realize operating synergies or capitalize on market opportunities, we must conduct a due diligence investigation of one or more target businesses. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot guarantee you that this diligence will surface all material issues or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our diligence fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our common stock. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining debt financing. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. 12 Table of Contents Rule 3a-2 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 allows companies that have a bona fide intent to engage primarily in a business other than that of investing in securities up to a one year period to engage in that other business activity. This exception may only be used once during a three-year period. We plan to seek the exemption under Rule 3a-2 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 to avoid being deemed to be an investment company. We can invest in U.S. government securities and other investments that qualify for an exception under Rule 3a-1 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 of the definition of what is an investment security if we believe that we may be deemed to be an investment company. By qualifying under this exception, we do not believe that our anticipated business activities will subject us to the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940. One part of our current investment portfolio, however, is a $3,850,000 investment in auction rate securities and related rights (“ARS”) to put the securities to the broker holding the securities during the period from June 30, 2010 to July 2, 2012, that could be deemed an investment security under the Investment Company Act of 1940. We may not be able to sell the ARS near par value until June 30, 2010 and invest the proceeds in investments that qualify for the exception under Rule 3a-1 of the Investment Company Act of 1940. We may be deemed to be an investment company, as defined under Sections 3(a)(1)(A) and (C) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, if, prior to the consummation of a business combination, we are viewed as engaging in the business of investing in securities or we own investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of our total assets. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: · restrictions on the nature of and custodial requirements for holding our investments; and · restrictions on our issuance of securities which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. If we become subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional costs and expenses and changes in our basis, format and periodic frequency of accounting and other required disclosures to investors. There can be no assurance that we are not deemed to be an investment company, as defined under Sections 3(a)(1)(A) and (C) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 or that we will qualify for the exemptions under Rule 3a-1 or Rule 3a-2 of the Investment Company Act of 1940. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and could cause a change in control of our ownership. 13 Table of Contents Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 100 million shares of common stock, par value $.001 per share, and 20 million shares of preferred stock, par value $.001 per share. There are approximately 76 million authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of the shares upon full exercise of our outstanding stock options). All of the 20 million shares of preferred stock are available for issuance. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or our preferred stock: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors; · may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if we issue preferred stock with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; · may cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards; and · may adversely affect the market price for our common stock. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness (even if we make all principal and interest payments when due) if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and · our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding. We may incur additional impairment charges to our auction rate securities portfolio and we are dependent on UBS AG to repurchase these investments from us. As of January 3, 2010, we had $3,800,000 of principal invested in ARS. The types of ARS investments that we own are backed by student loans, are guaranteed under the Federal Family Education Loan Program and are AAA or Aaa rated. The estimated fair value of our ARS holdings at January 3, 2010 was $3,455,000, which reflects a $345,000 impairment loss. We entered into an agreement with UBS that requires UBS to buy our ARS at par value during the period from June 30, 2010 to July 2, 2012. We have valued that right at $345,000 at January 3, 2010. We have given UBS the right to sell our ARS before that period if they are able to find a buyer that is willing to pay par value 14 Table of Contents for our ARS. UBS has provided a $2,661,000 line of credit to us, secured by the ARS held by them, which we drew down in February 2009. At January 3, 2010, $2,549,000 was outstanding under the line of credit. UBS’s obligation to repurchase our ARS is not secured by their assets and does not require UBS to obtain any financing to support their performance obligations. UBS has disclaimed any assurance that they will have sufficient financial resources to satisfy their obligations and the obligations are not guaranteed by any other party. If uncertainties in the capital and credit markets continue, these markets deteriorate further or we experience any ratings downgrades on any ARS investments in our portfolio, we may need to further impair the value of our ARS portfolio, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are also dependant on UBS to repurchase our ARS portfolio at par value and that obligation is subject to performance risk on the part of UBS. A substantial amount of our assets consists of cash and cash equivalents, which are on deposit with financial institutions in which the value of those assets may exceed the amount of Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”)or similar insurance held by those financial institutions. As a result of closing the Transaction, substantially all of our assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, which are deposited with various financial institutions. Global weakness in the worldwide commercial and investment banking systems is continuing, and as a result, the risk of asset impairment and/or closure of financial institutions remains high. Although we have deposited and/or invested our cash assets with multiple financial institutions to maximize our FDIC insurance coverage, this coverage is currently limited to $250,000 per institution. If any of the financial institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents were to fail or otherwise be unable to return our assets to us, we could lose a substantial amount of our cash and cash equivalents. The loss of the services of Steven Lipscomb or other key employees or our failure to attract key individuals could adversely affect our business. We are highly dependent on the services of Steven Lipscomb, who currently serves as our President and Chief Executive Officer. We do not currently have an employment contract with Mr. Lipscomb and he may elect to decrease the level of his involvement with us or terminate his employment with us altogether. Members of our Board of Directors own a large number of the outstanding shares of our common stock and are able to significantly influence our management and operations. Three members of our Board own 7,992,294 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 38% of our voting power as of March 25, 2010. As a result, these three individuals have a significant impact on the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the future merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentrated ownership could discourage others from pursuing a potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction. As a result, the return on investment in our common stock through the market price of our common stock or ultimate sale of our business could be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Our Board of Directors’ ability to issue undesignated preferred stock and the existence of anti-takeover provisions may depress the value of our common stock. Our authorized capital includes 20 million shares of undesignated preferred stock. Our Board has the power to issue any or all of the shares of preferred stock, including the authority to establish one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences, rights and limitations of such class or series, without seeking stockholder approval, subject to certain limitations on this power under Nasdaq listing requirements. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law regarding “business combinations.” We may, in the future, consider adopting additional anti-takeover measures. The authority of our Board to issue undesignated stock and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law, as well as any future anti-takeover measures adopted by us, may, in certain circumstances, delay, deter or prevent takeover attempts and other changes in control of our Company that are not approved by our Board. As a result, our stockholders may lose opportunities to dispose of their shares at favorable prices generally available in takeover attempts or that may be available under a merger proposal and the market price, voting and other rights of the holders of common stock may also be affected. Our common stock trades only in an illiquid trading market. Trading of our common stock is conducted on the over-the-counter bulletin board. This has an adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts’ and the media’s coverage of us and our common stock. This may result in lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for our common stock. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 