ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We may not be able to execute on our strategic plan and reverse our declining profitability. The key driver of our business is the number of tax returns prepared by our system. In each of our last two fiscal years, the number of tax returns prepared by our system declined as compared to the prior fiscal year and our profitability has declined in each of the last two fiscal years accordingly. The factors that are being assessed as having contributed to the decline in fiscal 2009, include our customers’ overall experience, our locations, our pricing, our overall marketing effectiveness, especially our local marketing, online encroachment and our early season product execution. If we are not able to execute on our strategic plan to attract and retain customers and increase the number of tax returns prepared by our system, our revenues and profits could continue to decline. Our failure to reverse the decreasing number of tax returns being prepared by our system and the associated decline in our profitability could also discourage our franchisees from expanding their business within our network or renewing their franchise agreements with us and discourage new franchisees from entering our network, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to improve our distribution system. Building a stronger distribution system is necessary to drive the growth of our business by maximizing the performance of the locations that we already possess and expanding our existing networks. We have entered into an agreement with Wal-Mart pursuant to which we were granted the exclusive right to provide tax preparation services within Wal-Mart stores during the 2010 and 2011 tax seasons. This arrangement affords us the opportunity to add a significant number of new, incremental Wal-Mart locations to our overall distribution network. If we are unsuccessful in having our operators offer services in these locations or too many of these locations are operated by our company-owned operations our revenues and our profitability could decline. Our strategy for selling new territories, strengthening our presence in the Hispanic market and expanding our alliance and partnership activities may not succeed, causing our revenues or profitability to decline. Our primarily fixed cost structure may impact our profitability. We have a fixed cost structure that anticipates a certain level of marketing and advertising expenditures based on an anticipated tax return volume. Our efforts to reduce our cost structure, including decreasing the cost structure of our company-owned stores, increasing the cost efficiency and quality of our third party relationships in delivering technology solutions and improving overall organizational productivity may not succeed, causing our margins and profitability to decline. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. Our continued success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key employees. Competition for executive, managerial and skilled personnel in our industry remains intense. We may experience increased compensation costs in order to attract and retain executives, managers and other skilled employees. We may not be able to retain our existing management, fill new positions or vacancies or attract or retain the management and personnel necessary to operate our business effectively. Although we strive to be an employer of choice, we may not be able to continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel which would cause our business to suffer. Government initiatives that simplify tax return preparation could reduce the need for our services as a third party tax return preparer. Many taxpayers seek assistance from paid tax return preparers such as us because of the level of complexity involved in the tax return preparation and filing process. From time to time, government officials propose measures seeking to simplify the preparation and filing of tax returns or to provide additional assistance with 9 Table of Contents respect to preparing and filing such tax returns. The passage of any measures that significantly simplify tax return preparation or otherwise reduce the need for a third party tax return preparer could reduce demand for our services, causing our revenues or profitability to decline. Initiatives that improve the timing and efficiency of processing tax returns could reduce the demand for financial products available to our customers and demand for our services. Our performance depends in part on our customers’ interest in obtaining the various financial products available through our offices. The federal government and various state governments have, from time to time, announced initiatives designed to modernize their operations and improve the timing and efficiency of processing tax returns and delivery of tax refunds. If tax authorities are able to increase the speed and efficiency with which they process tax returns and deliver tax refunds, the demand for financial products and demand for our tax return preparation services could be reduced, causing our revenues or profitability to decline. Changes in the tax law that result in a decreased number of tax returns filed could harm our business. From time to time, the United States Treasury Department and the IRS adopt policy and rule changes and other initiatives that result in a decrease in the number of tax returns filed. Similar changes in the tax law could reduce demand for our services, causing our revenues or profitability to decline. Delays in the passage of tax laws and their implementation by the federal or state governments could harm our business. The enactment of tax legislation occurring late in the calendar year could result in the beginning of tax filing season being delayed. Any such delays could impact our revenues and profitability in any given quarter or fiscal year. Our success is tied to the operations of our franchisees, yet our ability to exercise control over their operations is limited. Our financial success depends on our franchisees and the manner in which they operate and develop their offices. However, our ability to control the operations of our franchisees is limited because their businesses are independently owned and operated. Franchisees retain control over the employment and management of all personnel, including the large number of seasonal employees required during the tax season. Although we can exercise control over our franchisees and their operations to a certain extent under the terms of our franchise agreements to, among other things, maintain signage and equipment, standardize operating procedures, approve suppliers, distributors and products, protect the goodwill of our intellectual property and require compliance with law and our compliance standards, the quality of their operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Consequently, our franchisees may not operate their offices in a manner consistent with our philosophy and standards or may not increase the level of revenues generated compared to prior tax seasons. While we ultimately can take action to terminate franchisees that do not comply with the standards contained in our franchise agreements, and even though we have implemented thorough compliance and monitoring functions, we may not be able to identify problems and take action quickly enough and, as a result, our image and reputation may suffer, causing our revenues or profitability to decline. We may be held responsible by third parties, regulators or courts for the actions of, or failures to act by, our franchisees or their employees, which exposes us to possible fines, other liabilities and negative publicity. Our agreements with our franchisees require that they understand and comply with all laws and regulations applicable to their businesses. Although our franchisees are independently owned and operated and have a significant amount of flexibility in running their operations, third parties, regulators or courts may seek to hold us 10 Table of Contents responsible for the actions or failures to act by our franchisees or their employees. In addition, we are parties to agreements with retailers, such as Wal-Mart, and, to a certain extent, financial institutions that provide financial products to our customers, under which we may, in certain circumstances, indemnify third parties for our and our franchisees’ failure to perform obligations and/or comply with laws and regulations applicable to us or them. There are also occasions when our and our franchisees’ activities are not perceived to be distinguishable, and we may be held liable for the activities of our franchisees or their employees. Failure to comply with laws and regulations by our franchisees may expose us to possible fines, other liabilities, lawsuits and negative publicity which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal and state legislators and regulators have increasingly taken an active role in regulating financial products such as RALs, and the continuation of this trend could impede or prevent our ability to facilitate these financial products and reduce demand for our services and harm our business. From time to time, government officials at the federal and state levels introduce and enact legislation and regulations proposing to regulate or prevent the facilitation of RALs and other financial products. Certain of the proposed legislation and regulations could, if adopted, increase costs to us, our franchisees and the financial institutions that provide our financial products, or could negatively impact or eliminate the ability of financial institutions to provide RALs and other financial products through tax return preparation offices, which could cause our revenues or profitability to decline. Many states have statutes regulating, through licensing and other requirements, the activities of brokering loans and providing credit repair services to consumers as well as payday loan laws and local usury laws. Certain state regulators are interpreting these laws in a manner that could adversely affect the manner in which RALs and other financial products are facilitated, or permitted, or result in fines or penalties to us or our franchisees. Some states are introducing and enacting legislation that would seek to directly apply such laws to RAL facilitators. Additional states may interpret these laws in a manner that is adverse to how we currently conduct our business or how we have conducted our business in the past and we may be required to change business practices or otherwise comply with these statutes or it could result in fines or penalties or other payments related to past conduct. We from time to time receive inquiries from various state regulatory agencies regarding the facilitation of RALs and other financial products. We have in certain states paid fines, penalties and other payments, as well as agreed to injunctive relief, to resolve these matters. In addition, consumer advocacy groups have increasingly called for a legislative and regulatory response to the perceived inequity of these types of financial products. Increased regulatory activity in this area could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure by us, our franchisees or the financial institutions that provide financial products to our customers through us and our franchisees to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, including with respect to tax return preparation or financial products, could result in substantial sanctions against us or require changes to our business practices which could harm our profitability and reputation. Our tax return preparation business, including our franchise operations and facilitation of financial products such as RALs, are subject to extensive regulation and oversight in the United States by the IRS, the FTC and by federal and state regulatory and law enforcement agencies. If governmental agencies having jurisdiction over our operations were to conclude that our business practices, the practices of our franchisees, or those of the financial institutions, violate applicable laws, we could become subject to sanctions which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These sanctions may include, without limitation: (i) civil monetary damages and penalties; (ii) criminal penalties; and (iii) injunctions or other restrictions on the manner in which we conduct our business. In addition, the financial institutions that provide financial products such as RALs to our customers are also subject to significant regulation and oversight by federal and state regulators, including banking regulators. The failure of these financial institutions to comply with the regulatory requirements of federal and state government 11 Table of Contents regulatory bodies, including banking and consumer protection laws, could affect their ability to continue to provide financial products to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customers’ inability to obtain financial products through our tax return preparation offices could cause our revenues or profitability to decline. We also may be required to change business practices which could alter the way RALs and other financial products are facilitated which could cause our revenues or profitability to decline. Our tax return preparation compliance program may not be successful in detecting all problems in our network. Although our tax return preparation compliance program seeks to monitor the activities of our network, it is unlikely to detect every problem. While we have implemented a variety of measures to enhance tax return preparation compliance as well as our monitoring of these activities, there can be no assurance that franchisees and tax preparers will follow these procedures. Failure to detect tax return preparation compliance issues could harm our reputation and expose us to the risk of government investigation or litigation which could cause our revenues or profitability to decline. Changes in the law that result in increased regulation of tax return preparers could make it more difficult to find qualified tax preparers and could harm our business. From time to time, the federal government and various states consider regulations regarding the education, testing, licensing, certification and registration of tax return preparers. The IRS has announced that it will focus on a new model for tax return preparer regulation. Regulations of tax return preparers could impact our ability to find an adequate number of tax return preparers to meet the demands of our customers and impose additional costs on us to train tax return preparers, which could cause our revenues and profitability to decline. Our facilitation of RALs and other financial products exposes us to the risk of significant losses as a result of litigation defense and resolution costs and such lawsuits could damage our reputation. As a facilitator of RALs and other financial products, we have been, and continue to be, subject to individual and class action lawsuits. These lawsuits have alleged, among other claims, violation of law and claims of fraud, unfair competition, misleading or deceptive statements, violation of credit services statutes, and breach of fiduciary duty on the part of the tax return preparers for failing to, among other things, properly disclose the terms of the financial product. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” Given the large number of financial products, including RALs, we facilitate every year and the inherent uncertainties of the United States legal system, we could experience significant losses as a result of litigation defense and resolution costs, which could cause our profitability to decline. Adverse publicity related to these lawsuits could also damage our reputation, which could cause our revenues and profitability to decline. We are frequently a party to litigation that is costly to defend and consumes the time of our management. Defending litigation consumes the time of our management and is expensive. In addition, litigation is unpredictable and we may not prevail even in cases where we strongly believe a plaintiff’s case has no valid claims. If we do not prevail in litigation we may be required to pay substantial monetary damages or alter our business operations. Regardless of the outcome, litigation is expensive and consumes the time of our management and may ultimately reduce our income. 12 Table of Contents Our insurance coverage may not cover all risks associated with our business. We have various insurance policies related to the risks associated with our business, including errors and omissions insurance and directors and officers insurance. However, in the event of a claim there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be sufficient or that our insurance companies will cover the matters claimed. The failure of adequate insurance coverage or recovery could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with laws and regulations that protect our customers’ personal and financial information could result in significant fines, harm our brand and reputation and expose us to litigation defense and resolution costs. We transmit and store a large volume of our customers’ personal and financial information in the course of supporting our products and services. Privacy concerns relating to the disclosure and safeguarding of such personal and financial information have drawn increased attention from federal and state governments. The IRS generally prohibits the use and disclosure by tax return preparers of tax return information without the prior written consent of the taxpayer. In addition, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and other FTC regulations require income tax return preparers to adopt and disclose customer privacy policies and provide customers with a reasonable opportunity to opt out of having personal information disclosed to unaffiliated third parties for marketing purposes. Federal and state law also requires us to safeguard our customers’ financial information, including credit card information. Although we have established security procedures to protect against identity theft and the theft of our customers’ personal and financial information, breaches of our customers’ privacy may occur. To the extent the measures we and/or our franchisees and business partners have implemented are breached or if there is an inappropriate disclosure of confidential or personal information and/or data, we may become subject to litigation or administrative sanctions, which could result in significant fines, penalties or damages and harm to our brand and reputation. Even if we were not held liable, a security breach or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or personal information and/or data could harm our reputation. In addition, we may be required to invest additional resources to protect us against damages caused by these actual or perceived disruptions or security breaches in the future. In addition, changes in these federal and state regulatory requirements could result in more stringent requirements and could result in a need to change business practices, including how information is disclosed. These changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results depend on the effectiveness of our marketing and advertising programs and franchisee support of these programs. Our revenues are heavily influenced by brand marketing and advertising. If our marketing and advertising programs are unsuccessful in the future, we may fail to retain existing customers and attract new customers which could result in a decline in our revenues or profitability. Moreover, because franchisees contribute to our marketing fund based on a percentage of their gross sales, our marketing fund expenditures are dependent upon sales volumes of our franchisees. If these sales continue to decline, as occurred during the last two tax seasons, there will be a reduced amount available for our marketing and advertising programs. The support of our franchisees is critical for the success of our marketing programs and any new strategic initiatives we seek to undertake. While we can mandate certain strategic initiatives through enforcement of our franchise agreements, we need the active support of our franchisees if the implementation of our marketing programs and strategic initiatives is to be successful. Although we believe that our current relationships with our franchisees are generally good, there can be no assurance that our franchisees will continue to support our marketing programs and strategic initiatives. The failure of our franchisees to support our marketing programs and strategic initiatives would adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Our operating results depend on the success and growth of our franchise system. The success and growth of our franchise system depends on our maintaining a satisfactory working relationship with our existing franchisees and attracting new franchisees to our network. Lawsuits and other disputes with our franchisees, or disputes between our franchisees and our financial partners, could discourage our franchisees from expanding their business within our network or lead to negative publicity, which could discourage new franchisees from entering our network or existing franchisees from renewing their franchise agreements, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In each of fiscal year 2008 and 2009, we had lower territory sales as compared to the prior fiscal year. The failure to grow our network could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 1999 and 2000, we offered our franchisees the opportunity to renew their franchise relationship with us before their franchise agreement expired. In these early renewal programs, 93% of our franchisees entered into a new franchise agreement for a new 10-year term, and, as a result, approximately a third of our existing franchise agreements come up for renewal in 2009 or 2010. Our inability to renew a significant portion of these franchise agreements on terms satisfactory to our franchisees and us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is, to some extent, dependent upon our customers’ ability to obtain financial products through our offices. Our tax return preparation business is, to some extent, dependent on our customers’ ability to obtain financial products through our tax return preparation offices. The financial products we facilitate are specialized financial products and relatively few financial institutions offer them. We currently have contractual arrangements with SBB&T and Republic to provide these financial products. Our agreements with SBB&T and Republic expire on October 31, 2010. If these arrangements were to terminate, and we were unable to enter into an alternative relationship with one or more other financial institutions on acceptable terms or at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we earn revenues under our agreements with the providers of financial products to our customers. Changes in the industry, how financial products are permitted to be provided or the level of demand for these products by our customers could result in the termination of these agreements or the financial product providers seeking to amend the agreements on terms which may not be favorable to us, either of which could cause our revenues or profitability to decline. Disruptions in our relationship with Wal-Mart or other large retailers and shopping malls could negatively affect our growth and profitability. The failure to successfully execute our operating plan under our agreement with Wal-Mart pursuant to which we were granted the exclusive right to provide tax preparation services within Wal-Mart stores during the 2010 and 2011 tax seasons, the termination of this agreement or the inability to renew the agreement on satisfactory terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also have offices in other retail-partner locations, typically retail stores and shopping malls. In the event we are unable to negotiate favorable agreements with these or comparable retailers or shopping malls or they close a significant number of stores, especially immediately prior to or during the tax season, or our operators are unsuccessful in opening these locations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The highly seasonal nature of our business presents a number of financial risks and operational challenges which if we fail to meet could materially affect our business. Our business is highly seasonal. We generate substantially all our revenues during the period from January 1 through April 30. The concentration of our revenue-generating activity during this relatively short period presents a number of operational challenges for us and our franchisees, including: (i) cash and resource 14 Table of Contents management during the first eight months of our fiscal year, when we generally operate at a loss and incur fixed costs and costs of preparing for the upcoming tax season; (ii) flexible staffing, because the number of employees at our network’s offices during the peak of the tax season is exponentially higher than at any other time; (iii) accurate forecasting of revenues and expenses; and (iv) ensuring optimal uninterrupted operations during tax season. If we were unable to meet these challenges or we were to experience significant business interruptions during the tax season, which may be caused by labor shortages, systems failures, work stoppages, adverse weather, computer viruses, computer hackers, health epidemics or other events, many of which are beyond our control, we could experience a loss of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition in our business that may negatively impact our revenues, profitability and market position. The paid tax return preparation market is highly competitive. Our network competes with tens of thousands of paid tax return preparers and regional and national accounting firms and financial service institutions that prepare tax returns as part of their businesses. Some of these firms are larger and better capitalized. We also face increased competitive challenges from the online and software self preparer market, including Free File Alliance, a consortium of the IRS and online preparation services that provides free online tax return preparation and filing, and from volunteer organizations that prepare tax returns at no cost for low-income taxpayers. The availability of these alternatives may reduce demand for our products and limit the amount of fees that we can charge. Competitors may develop or offer more attractive or lower cost products and services than ours which could erode our customer base. In addition, an increase in use of free tax return preparation services could result in a loss of our customers and could cause revenues or profitability to decline. Additionally, federal and state governments may in the future become direct competitors to our tax offerings. Were federal and state governments to provide their own software and electronic filing services to taxpayers at no charge it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business relies on technology systems and electronic communications, which, if disrupted, could significantly affect our business. Our ability to file tax returns electronically and to facilitate financial products depends on our ability to electronically communicate with all of our network’s offices, the IRS and the financial institutions that provide these financial products. Our electronic communications network is subject to disruptions of various magnitudes and durations. Any severe disruption of our network or electronic communications, especially during the tax season, could impair our ability to complete our customers’ tax filings, to facilitate financial products and to provide technology services to the financial institutions providing financial products or to maintain our operations, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may harm our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third party allegations of infringement may be costly. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our trademarks or other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. The actions we take to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights may not be adequate. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. There are no assurances that we will be able to prevent infringement of our intellectual property rights or misappropriation of our proprietary information. Any infringement or 15 Table of Contents misappropriation could harm any competitive advantage we currently derive or may derive from our proprietary rights. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us. Any claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could require us to design around a third party’s patent or to license alternative technology from another party. In addition, litigation is time-consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of our time and resources. Any claims from third parties may also result in limitations on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” We are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. We are a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, all our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries. As a holding company, we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements or other obligations. If our subsidiaries are unable to pay us dividends and make other payments to us when needed, we will be unable to satisfy our obligations. Our credit facility contains restrictive covenants and other requirements that may limit our business flexibility by imposing operating and financial restrictions on our operations. The agreement governing our credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictive covenants that will require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests. In addition, our credit facility contains various customary restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, (i) incur additional indebtedness or guarantees, (ii) create liens or other encumbrances on our property, (iii) enter into a merger or similar transaction, (iv) sell or transfer property except in the ordinary course of business and (v) make acquisitions. Effective April 27, 2009, our amended credit facility prohibits us from paying dividends and repurchasing shares of our common stock for the remainder of the term of the agreement. This amendment to the credit facility resulted in a portion of the facility being converted into an amortizing term loan which requires certain mandatory payments in April 2010 and April 2011 and also requires us to prepay 50% of Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the amended credit facility), if any, for fiscal years 2010 and 2011. Our ability to comply with the covenants, ratios, tests or mandatory payments in our credit facility may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. A breach of any of these covenants, ratios, tests or mandatory payments could result in a default under our credit facility. In addition, these covenants may prevent us from incurring additional indebtedness to expand our operations and execute our business strategy, including making acquisitions. Our floating rate debt financing exposes us to interest rate risk. We may borrow amounts under our credit facility that bear interest at rates that vary with prevailing market interest rates. Accordingly, a rise in market interest rates will adversely affect our financial results. We expect to draw most heavily on this credit facility from May through February of each year and then repay a significant portion of the borrowings by the end of each tax season. Therefore, a significant rise in interest rates during our off-season will have a disproportionate impact on our profitability. Because the tax season is relatively short and straddles two quarters, our quarterly results may not be indicative of our performance, which may increase the volatility of the trading price of our common stock. We experience quarterly variations in revenues and operating income as a result of many factors, including the highly seasonal nature of the tax return preparation business, the timing of off-season activities and the hiring of personnel. Due to the foregoing factors, our quarter-to-quarter results vary significantly. In addition, because our peak period straddles the third and fourth quarters and a variety of factors may result in a delay or acceleration in the number of tax returns processed in January, year-to-year quarterly comparisons are not as meaningful as year-to-year tax season comparisons. To the extent our quarterly results vary significantly from year to year, our stock price may be subject to significant volatility. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to certain provisions that may have the effect of hindering, delaying or preventing third party takeovers, which may prevent our shareholders from receiving premium prices for their shares in an unsolicited takeover and make it more difficult for third parties to replace our current management. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and our rights plan contain several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions include, among other things, the elimination of stockholder action by written consent, advance notice for raising business or making nominations at meetings and “blank check” preferred stock. Blank check preferred stock enables our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to designate and issue additional series of preferred stock with such dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, including the right to issue convertible securities with no limitations on conversion, as our board of directors may determine are appropriate, including rights to dividends and proceeds in a liquidation that are senior to the common stock. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting common stock. We are also subject to certain provisions of Delaware law which could delay, deter or prevent us from entering into an acquisition, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder unless specific conditions are met. These provisions also may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock. In addition, our stockholder rights plan entitles our stockholders to acquire shares of our common stock at a price equal to 50% of the then current market value in limited circumstances when a third party acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock (excluding as a result of share repurchases by us) or announces its intent to commence a tender offer for at least 15% of our common stock, in each case, in a transaction that our board of directors does not approve. Because, under these limited circumstances, all of our stockholders would become entitled to affect discounted purchases of our common stock, other than the person or group that caused the rights to become exercisable, the existence of these rights would significantly increase the cost of acquiring control of us without the support of our board of directors. The existence of the rights plan could therefore deter potential acquirers and thereby reduce the likelihood that a stockholder will receive a premium for his or her common stock in an acquisition. Our Board of Directors has decided to recommend the redemption of our stockholder rights plan in a vote at our 2009 annual stockholders’ meeting. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to detect fraud or report our financial results accurately, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to detect and prevent fraud. We periodically assess our system of internal controls, and the internal controls of service providers upon which we rely, to review their effectiveness and identify potential areas of improvement. These assessments may conclude that enhancements, modifications or changes to our system of internal controls are necessary. Performing assessments of internal controls, implementing necessary changes, and maintaining an effective internal controls process is expensive and requires considerable management attention. Internal control systems are designed in part upon assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and all such systems, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. If we fail to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls or prevent fraud, we could suffer losses, could be subject to costly litigation, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and our brand and operating results could be harmed, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we and our independent registered public accounting firm must certify the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting annually. Identification of material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting by us or our independent registered public accounting firm could adversely affect our competitive position in our business, and the market price for our common stock. Goodwill impairment charges can cause significant fluctuation in our net income. We may incur impairment charges related to the goodwill already recorded and to goodwill arising out of future acquisitions. Any impairment of the value of our goodwill could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results. The credit market crisis may adversely affect our business and financial performance. The credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented volatility and disruption causing many lenders and institutional investors to cease providing funding to even the most credit worthy borrowers or to other financial institutions. The credit crisis could limit the ability of our financial partners’ to fund, securitize or sell the financial products that are made available to our customers through our offices. The disruptions in the credit markets may also require us to take efforts to support our financial partners as we did in agreeing to make payments to MetaBank to offset loan losses significantly in excess of MetaBank’s projected losses it incurs related to one of the line of credit products it provides. If the credit crisis prevents our financial partners from providing financial products to our customers, limits the financial products offered or results in us having to incur further financial obligations to support our financial partners, our revenues or profitability could decline. The cost and availability of funds could also adversely impact our franchisees ability to grow and operate their businesses which could cause our revenues or profitability to decline. In addition, continued disruptions in the credit markets could adversely affect our ability to sell territories to new or existing franchisees, causing our revenues or profitability to decline. Continued disruptions in the credit market could also negatively impact the ability of our lending syndicate to make funds available to us under our credit facility, or prevent us from successfully amending our credit facility on terms acceptable to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The terms of any amendment to our credit facility could result in an increased cost of borrowing, a reduction in the amount of credit available under the facility and further restrictions on the operation of our business, included making dividend payments, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. There were no unresolved staff comments. 