Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in us involves a degree of risk, including the risks described below. You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. If any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or treatment of unitholders could be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We depend upon Holly and particularly its Navajo Refinery for a majority of our revenues; if those revenues were significantly reduced or if Holly’s financial condition materially deteriorated, there would be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2008, Holly accounted for 72% of the revenues of our petroleum product and crude pipelines and 70% of the revenues of our terminals and truck loading racks. We expect to continue to derive a majority of our revenues from Holly for the foreseeable future. If Holly satisfies only its minimum obligations under the Holly PTA, Holly IPA and Holly CPTA or is unable to meet its minimum annual payment commitment for any reason, including due to prolonged downtime or a shutdown at the Navajo Refinery or the Woods Cross Refinery, our revenues and cash flow would decline. Any significant curtailing of production at the Navajo Refinery could, by reducing throughput in our pipelines and terminals, result in our realizing materially lower levels of revenues and cash flow for the duration of the shutdown. For the year ended December 31, 2008, production from the Navajo Refinery accounted for 67% of the throughput volumes transported by our refined product and crude pipelines. The Navajo Refinery also received 100% of the petroleum products shipped on our Intermediate Pipelines. Operations at the Navajo Refinery could be partially or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as the result of: • competition from other refineries and pipelines that may be able to supply the refinery’s end-user markets on a more cost-effective basis; • operational problems such as catastrophic events at the refinery, labor difficulties or environmental proceedings or other litigation that compel the cessation of all or a portion of the operations at the refinery; • planned maintenance or capital projects; -13- Table of Contents • increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations, such as the Environmental Protection Agency’s gasoline and diesel sulfur control requirements that limit the concentration of sulfur in motor gasoline and diesel fuel for both on-road and non-road usage as well as various state and federal emission requirements that may affect the refinery itself; • an inability to obtain crude oil for the refinery at competitive prices; or • a general reduction in demand for refined products in the area due to: • a local or national recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by businesses and consumers on gasoline and diesel fuel; • higher gasoline prices due to higher crude oil prices, higher taxes or stricter environmental laws or regulations; or • a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient or alternative fuel vehicles or an increase in fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation either mandating or encouraging higher fuel economy or the use of alternative fuel or otherwise. The magnitude of the effect on us of any shutdown would depend on the length of the shutdown and the extent of the refinery operations affected by the shutdown. We have no control over the factors that may lead to a shutdown or the measures Holly may take in response to a shutdown. Holly makes all decisions at the Navajo Refinery concerning levels of production, regulatory compliance, refinery turnarounds (planned shutdowns of individual process units within the refinery to perform major maintenance activities), labor relations, environmental remediation and capital expenditures; is responsible for all related costs; and is under no contractual obligation to us to maintain operations at the Navajo Refinery. Furthermore, Holly’s obligations under the Holly PTA and Holly IPA would be temporarily suspended during the occurrence of a force majeure that renders performance impossible with respect to an asset for at least 30 days. If such an event were to continue for a year, we or Holly could terminate the agreements. The occurrence of any of these events could reduce our revenues and cash flows. We depend on Alon and particularly its Big Spring Refinery for a substantial portion of our revenues; if those revenues were significantly reduced, there would be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2008, Alon accounted for 16% of the combined revenues of our petroleum product and crude pipelines and of our terminals and truck loading racks, including revenues we received from Alon under a capacity lease agreement. On February 18, 2008, Alon experienced an explosion and fire at its Big Spring refinery that resulted in the shutdown of production. In early April, Alon reopened its Big Spring refinery and resumed production at one-half of refinery capacity until late September when production was restored to full capacity. Lost production and reduced operations attributable to this incident resulted in a significant decrease in third party shipments and related revenues on our refined product pipelines during the first nine months of 2008. As a result of related contractual minimum commitments and resulting shortfall billings, the incidents did not materially affect our distributable cash flow. Another decline in production at Alon’s Big Spring Refinery would materially reduce the volume of refined products we transport and terminal for Alon. As a result, our revenues would be materially adversely affected. The Big Spring Refinery could partially or completely shut down its operations, temporarily or permanently, due to factors affecting its ability to produce refined products or for planned maintenance or capital projects. Such factors would include the factors discussed above under the discussion of risk factors for the Navajo Refinery. The magnitude of the effect on us of any shutdown depends on the length of the shutdown and the extent of the refinery operations affected. We have no control over the factors that may lead to a shutdown or -14- Table of Contents the measures Alon may take in response to a shutdown. Alon makes all decisions and is responsible for all costs at the Big Spring Refinery concerning levels of production, regulatory compliance, refinery turnarounds, labor relations, environmental remediation and capital expenditures. In addition, under the Alon PTA, if we are unable to transport or terminal refined products that Alon is prepared to ship, then Alon has the right to reduce its minimum volume commitment to us during the period of interruption. If a force majeure event occurs beyond the control of either of us, we or Alon could terminate the Alon pipelines and terminals agreement after the expiration of certain time periods. The occurrence of any of these events could reduce our revenues and cash flows. We are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. As stated above, we receive substantial revenues from both Holly and Alon under their respective pipelines and terminals agreements. In addition, a subsidiary of BP Plc (“BP”) is our largest shipper on the Rio Grande Pipeline, a joint venture in which we own a 70% interest and from which we derived 8% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. If any of our key customers default on their obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Competition from other pipelines that may be able to supply our shippers’ customers with refined products at a lower price could cause us to reduce our rates or could reduce our revenues. We and our shippers could face increased competition if other pipelines are able to competitively supply our shippers’ end-user markets with refined products. The Longhorn Pipeline is a 72,000 bpd common carrier pipeline that delivers refined products utilizing a direct route from the Texas Gulf Coast to El Paso and, through interconnections with third-party common carrier pipelines, into the Arizona market. Longhorn Partners Pipeline, L.P., owner of the Longhorn Pipeline, has put the pipeline up-for-sale. Although, Longhorn Partners Pipeline, L.P. did not complete a previously planned 72,000 bpd to 125,000 bpd capacity expansion project, a subsequent owner could resume and ultimately complete this planned expansion project under its own initiative. Increased supplies of refined product delivered by the Longhorn Pipeline and Kinder Morgan’s El Paso to Phoenix pipeline could result in additional downward pressure on wholesale refined product prices and refined product margins in El Paso and related markets. Additionally, further increases in products from Gulf Coast refiners entering the El Paso and Arizona markets on this pipeline and a resulting increase in the demand for shipping product on the interconnecting common carrier pipelines could cause a decline in the demand for refined product from Holly and/or Alon. This could reduce our opportunity to earn revenues from Holly and Alon in excess of their minimum volume commitment obligations. An additional factor that could affect some of Holly’s and Alon’s markets is excess pipeline capacity from the West Coast into our shippers’ Arizona markets on the pipeline from the West Coast to Phoenix. Additional increases in shipments of refined products from the West Coast into our shippers’ Arizona markets could result in additional downward pressure on refined product prices that, if sustained over the long term, could influence product shipments by Holly and Alon to these markets. A material decrease in the supply, or a material increase in the price, of crude oil available to Holly’s and Alon’s refineries and a corresponding decrease in demand for refined products in the markets served by our pipelines and terminals, could materially reduce our revenues. The volume of refined products we transport in our refined products pipelines depends on the level of production of refined products from Holly’s and Alon’s refineries, which, in turn, depends on the availability of attractively-priced crude oil produced in the areas accessible to those refineries. In order to maintain or increase production levels at their refineries, our shippers must continually contract for new crude oil supplies. A material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply their refineries, as a result of depressed commodity prices, decreased demand, lack of drilling activity, natural production -15- Table of Contents declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil our shippers refine, absent the availability of transported crude oil to offset such declines. Such an event would result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products transported through our pipelines and therefore a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. In addition, the future growth of our shippers’ operations will depend in part upon whether our shippers can contract for additional supplies of crude oil at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in their currently connected supplies. Fluctuations in crude oil prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as crude oil prices decrease. We and our shippers have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of operations, the amount of reserves underlying the wells and the rate at which production from a well will decline, or producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, geological considerations, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital. Similarly, a material increase in the price of crude oil supplied to our shippers’ refineries without an increase in the market value of the products produced by the refineries, either temporary or permanent, which caused a reduction in the production of refined products at the refineries, would cause a reduction in the volumes of refined products we transport, and our cash flow could be adversely affected. Finally, our business depends in large part on the demand for the various petroleum products we gather, transport and store in the markets we serve. Reductions in that demand adversely affect our business. Market demand varies based upon the different end uses of the petroleum products we gather, transport and store. We cannot predict the impact of future fuel conservation measures, alternate fuel requirements, government regulation, technological advances in fuel economy and energy-generation devices, exploration and production activities, and actions by foreign nations, any of which could reduce the demand for the petroleum products in the areas we serve. We may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors outside our control, including competition from other pipelines and the demand for refined products in the markets that we serve. Alon’s obligations to lease capacity on the Artesia-Orla-El Paso pipeline have remaining terms that expire beginning in 2012 through 2018. Our pipelines and terminals agreements with Holly and Alon expire beginning in 2019 through 2023. Additionally, Rio Grande executed a 5-year throughput agreement with PMI Trading Ltd. in January 2009 that expires 2014. This contract can be cancelled by either party following 180 days notice after June 30, 2011. Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to product quality specifications, environmental protection and operational safety that could require us to make substantial expenditures. Our pipelines and terminal operations are subject to increasingly strict environmental and safety laws and regulations. Also, the transportation and storage of refined products produces a risk that refined products and other hydrocarbons may be suddenly or gradually released into the environment, potentially causing substantial expenditures for a response action, significant government penalties, liability to government agencies for natural resources damages, personal injury or property damages to private parties and significant business interruption. We own or lease a number of properties that have been used to store or distribute refined products for many years. Many of these properties have also been operated by third parties whose handling, disposal, or release of hydrocarbons and other wastes were not under our control. If we were to incur a significant liability pursuant to environmental laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on us. We are also subject to the requirements of OSHA, and comparable state statutes. Any violation of OSHA could impose substantial costs on us. New environmental laws and regulations, including new regulations relating to alternative energy sources and the risk of global climate change, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, increased governmental enforcement or other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen -16- Table of Contents expenditures. There is growing consensus that some form of regulation will be forthcoming at the federal level in the United States with respect to greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides). Also, as a result of the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in April 2007 in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA, the EPA may be required to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources (e.g., cars and trucks) even if Congress does not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of greenhouse gases. New legislation or regulatory programs that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas where we conduct business could adversely affect our operations and demand for our services. Furthermore, the costs of environmental and safety regulations are already significant and additional or more stringent regulation could increase these costs or could otherwise adversely affect our business. Petroleum products that we store and transport are sold by our customers for consumption into the public market. Various federal, state and local agencies have the authority to prescribe specific product quality specifications of refined products. Changes in product quality specifications or blending requirements could reduce our throughput volume, require us to incur additional handling costs or require capital expenditures. For example, different product specifications for different markets impact the fungibility of the products in our system and could require the construction of additional storage. If we are unable to recover these costs through increased revenues, our cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions could be adversely affected. In addition, changes in the product quality of the products we receive on our petroleum products pipeline system could reduce or eliminate our ability to blend products. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. These events might result in a loss of equipment or life, injury, or extensive property damage, as well as an interruption in our operations. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates and exclusions from coverage may limit our ability to recover the amount of the full loss in all situations. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could increase. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Any reduction in the capacity of, or the allocations to, our shippers on interconnecting, third-party pipelines could cause a reduction of volumes transported in our pipelines and through our terminals. Holly, Alon and the other users of our pipelines and terminals are dependent upon connections to third-party pipelines to receive and deliver crude oil and refined products. Any reduction of capacities of these interconnecting pipelines due to testing, line repair, reduced operating pressures, or other causes could result in reduced volumes transported in our pipelines or through our terminals. Similarly, if additional shippers begin transporting volumes of refined products over interconnecting pipelines, the allocations to existing shippers in these pipelines would be reduced, which could also reduce volumes transported in our pipelines or through our terminals. For example, the common carrier pipelines used by Holly to serve the Arizona and Albuquerque markets are currently operated at or near capacity and are subject to proration. As a result, the volumes of refined product that Holly and other shippers have been able to deliver to these markets have been limited. The flow of additional products into El Paso for shipment to Arizona could further exacerbate such constraints on deliveries to Arizona. Any reduction in volumes transported in our pipelines or through our terminals could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows. If our assumptions concerning population growth are inaccurate or if Holly’s growth strategy is not successful, our ability to grow may be adversely affected. -17- Table of Contents Our growth strategy is dependent upon: • the accuracy of our assumption that many of the markets that we currently serve or have plans to serve in the Southwestern and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States will experience population growth that is higher than the national average; and • the willingness and ability of Holly to capture a share of this additional demand in its existing markets and to identify and penetrate new markets in the Southwestern and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States. If our assumptions about growth in market demand prove incorrect, Holly may not have any incentive to increase refinery capacity and production or shift additional throughput to our pipelines, which would adversely affect our growth strategy. Furthermore, Holly is under no obligation to pursue a growth strategy. If Holly chooses not to gain, or is unable to gain additional customers in new or existing markets in the Southwestern and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States, our growth strategy would be adversely affected. Moreover, Holly may not make acquisitions that would provide acquisition opportunities to us; or, if those opportunities arise, they may not be financed by us or on terms attractive to us. Finally, Holly also will be subject to integration risks with respect to any new acquisitions it chooses to make. Growing our business by constructing new pipelines and terminals, or expanding existing ones, subjects us to construction risks. One of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new pipelines and terminals or the expansion of existing ones. The construction of a new pipeline or the expansion of an existing pipeline, by adding horsepower or pump stations or by adding a second pipeline along an existing pipeline, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control. These projects may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. In addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we build a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in demand for refined products in a region in which such growth does not materialize. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Rate regulation may not allow us to recover the full amount of increases in our costs. The FERC regulates the tariff rates for interstate movements on our pipeline systems. The primary rate-making methodology of the FERC is price indexing. We use this methodology in all of our interstate markets. The indexing method allows a pipeline to increase its rates based on a percentage change in the producer price index for finished goods. If the index falls, we will be required to reduce our rates that are based on the FERC’s price indexing methodology if they exceed the new maximum allowable rate. In addition, changes in the index might not be large enough to fully reflect actual increases in our costs. The FERC’s rate-making methodologies may limit our ability to set rates based on our true costs or may delay the use of rates that reflect increased costs. Any of the foregoing would adversely affect our revenues and cash flow. If our interstate or intrastate tariff rates are successfully challenged, we could be required to reduce our tariff rates, which would reduce our revenues. Under the FERC indexing methodology contained in the Code of Federal Regulations at 18 CFR 342-3, our interstate pipeline tariff rates are deemed just and reasonable. If a party with an economic interest were to file either a protest or a complaint against our tariff rates, or the FERC were to initiate an investigation of our rates, then our existing rates could be subject to detailed review. If our rates were found to be in excess of levels justified by our cost of service, the FERC could order us to reduce our rates, and to refund the amount by which the rates were determined to be excessive, plus interest. In -18- Table of Contents addition, a state commission could also investigate our intrastate rates or our terms and conditions of service on its own initiative or at the urging of a shipper or other interested party. If a state commission found that our rates exceeded levels justified by our cost of service, the state commission could order us to reduce our rates. Any such reductions may result in lower revenues and cash flows if additional volumes and / or capacity are unavailable to offset such rate reductions. Holly and Alon have agreed not to challenge, or to cause others to challenge or assist others in challenging, our tariff rates in effect during the terms of their respective pipelines and terminals agreements. These agreements do not prevent other current or future shippers from challenging our tariff rates. Potential changes to current petroleum pipeline rate-making methods and procedures may impact the federal and state regulations under which we will operate in the future. The regulatory agencies that regulate our systems periodically implement new rules, regulations and terms and conditions of services subject to their jurisdiction. New initiatives or orders may adversely affect the rates charged for our services. If the FERC’s petroleum pipeline rate-making methodology changes, the new methodology could result in tariffs that generate lower revenues and cash flow. Furthermore, competition from other pipeline systems may prevent us from raising our tariff rates even if regulatory agencies permit us to do so. The fees we charge to third parties under transportation and storage agreements may not escalate sufficiently to cover increases in our costs, and the agreements may not be renewed or may be suspended in some circumstances. Our costs may increase at a rate greater than the rate that the fees we charge to third parties increase pursuant to our contracts with them. Furthermore, third parties may not renew their contracts with us. Additionally, some third parties’ obligations under their agreements with us may be permanently or temporarily reduced upon the occurrence of certain events, some of which are beyond our control, including force majeure events wherein the supply of crude oil or refined products is curtailed or cut off. Force majeure events include (but are not limited to) revolutions, wars, acts of enemies, embargoes, import or export restrictions, strikes, lockouts, fires, storms, floods, acts of God, explosions and mechanical or physical failures of our equipment or facilities or those of third parties. If the escalation of fees is insufficient to cover increased costs, if third parties do not renew or extend their contracts with us or if any third party suspends or terminates its contracts with us, our financial results would be negatively impacted. Terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks or domestic vandalism, have resulted in increased costs to our business. Continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. The long-term impact of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, and the threat of future terrorist attacks, on the energy transportation industry in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. Increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks or vandalism have resulted in increased costs to our business. Uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks could make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital including our ability to repay or refinance debt. Our leverage may limit our ability to borrow additional funds, comply with the terms of our indebtedness or capitalize on business opportunities. -19- Table of Contents As of December 31, 2008, the principal amount of our total outstanding debt was $385.0 million. Our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates above current levels. Various limitations in our Credit Agreement and the indenture for our Senior Notes may reduce our ability to incur additional debt, to engage in some transactions and to capitalize on business opportunities. Any subsequent refinancing of our current indebtedness or any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions. Our leverage could have important consequences. We will require substantial cash flow to meet our payment obligations with respect to our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments, to refinance our obligations with respect to our indebtedness or our ability to obtain additional financing in the future will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors. We believe that we will have sufficient cash flow from operations and available borrowings under our Credit Agreement to service our indebtedness. However, a significant downturn in our business or other development adversely affecting our cash flow could materially impair our ability to service our indebtedness. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to refinance all or a portion of our debt or sell assets. We cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance our existing indebtedness at maturity or otherwise or sell assets on terms that are commercially reasonable. The instruments governing our debt contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain beneficial transactions. The agreements governing our debt generally require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants including the maintenance of certain financial ratios and restrictions on incurring additional debt, entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets, making investments and granting liens. Additionally, our contribution agreements with Alon, and our purchase and contribution agreements with Holly with respect to the Intermediate Pipelines and the Crude Pipelines and Tankage Assets restrict us from selling the pipelines and terminals acquired from Alon or Holly, as applicable, and from prepaying more than $30.0 million of the Senior Notes until 2015 and any of the $171.0 million borrowed under the Credit Agreement for the purchase of the Crude Pipelines and Tankage assets until 2018, subject to certain limited exceptions. Our leverage may adversely affect our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general partnership requirements, future acquisitions, construction or development activities, or to otherwise fully realize the value of our assets and opportunities because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness or to comply with any restrictive terms of our indebtedness. Our leverage may also make our results of operations more susceptible to adverse economic and industry conditions by limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and may place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that have less debt. We may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile due to a variety of factors, including significant write-offs in the financial services sector and the current weak economic conditions. As a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished significantly. In particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduced, or in some cases ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. In addition, lending counterparties under existing revolving credit facilities and other debt instruments may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due. Moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future -20- Table of Contents acquisitions or announced and future pipeline construction projects, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We may not be able to fully execute our growth strategy if we encounter illiquid capital markets or increased competition for investment opportunities. Our strategy contemplates growth through the development and acquisition of crude, intermediate and refined products transportation and storage assets while maintaining a strong balance sheet. This strategy includes constructing and acquiring additional assets and businesses to enhance our ability to compete effectively and diversifying our asset portfolio, thereby providing more stable cash flow. We regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding, and are currently contemplating and/or pursuing, potential joint ventures, stand alone projects or other transactions that we believe will present opportunities to realize synergies, expand our role in our chosen businesses and increase our market position. We will require substantial new capital to finance the future development and acquisition of assets and businesses. Any limitations on our access to capital will impair our ability to execute this strategy. If the cost of such capital becomes too expensive, our ability to develop or acquire accretive assets will be limited. We may not be able to raise the necessary funds on satisfactory terms, if at all. The primary factors that influence our cost of equity include market conditions, fees we pay to underwriters and other offering costs, which include amounts we pay for legal and accounting services. The primary factors influencing our cost of borrowing include interest rates, credit spreads, covenants, underwriting or loan origination fees and similar charges we pay to lenders. In addition, we are experiencing increased competition for the types of assets and businesses we have historically purchased or acquired. Increased competition for a limited pool of assets could result in our losing to other bidders more often or acquiring assets at less attractive prices. Either occurrence would limit our ability to fully execute our growth strategy. Our inability to execute our growth strategy may materially adversely affect our ability to maintain or pay higher distributions in the future. Ongoing maintenance of effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could cause us to incur additional expenditures of time and financial resources. We regularly document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on our controls over financial reporting. If, in the future, we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time; we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to incur substantial expenditures of management time and financial resources to identify and correct any such failure. We may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations of any future acquisitions with our operations, and in realizing all or any part of the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions. From time to time, we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and businesses. Acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with -21- Table of Contents different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Also, following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. Due to our lack of asset diversification, adverse developments in our businesses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. We rely exclusively on the revenues generated from our business. Due to our lack of asset diversification, an adverse development in our business could have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets. We do not own all of the land on which our pipeline systems and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our pipeline systems and facilities are located, and we are, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. We obtain the right to construct and operate pipelines on land owned by third parties and government agencies for specified periods of time. If we were to lose these rights through an inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, we may be required to relocate our pipelines and our business could be adversely affected. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of obtaining new rights-of-way or renewing existing rights-of-way increases, it may adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to unitholders. Our business may suffer if any of our key senior executives or other key employees discontinues employment with us. Furthermore, a shortage of skilled labor or disruptions in our labor force may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity. Our future success depends to a large extent on the services of our key senior executives and key senior employees. Our business depends on our continuing ability to recruit, train and retain highly qualified employees in all areas of our operations, including accounting, business operations, finance and other key back-office and mid-office personnel. The competition for these employees is intense, and the loss of these executives or employees could harm our business. If any of these executives or other key personnel resign or become unable to continue in their present roles and are not adequately replaced, our business operations could be materially adversely affected. We do not maintain any “key man” life insurance for any executives. Furthermore, our operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. In certain cases we have the right to be indemnified by third parties for environmental liabilities, and our results of operation and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected if a third party fails to satisfy an indemnification obligation owed to us. In connection with our past acquisitions of pipelines, tankage, terminals and related assets from Holly and Alon, we have entered into environmental agreements with them pursuant to which they have agreed to indemnify us for certain pre-closing environmental liabilities discovered within specified time periods after the date of the applicable acquisition. These indemnities continue through 2014 for the assets contributed to us by Holly at our initial public offering, through 2015 for the Intermediate Pipelines acquired from Holly and the refined products pipelines, tankage and terminals acquired from Alon, and through 2023 for the Crude Pipelines and Tankage Assets acquired from Holly. Other third parties are also obligated to indemnify us for ongoing remediation pursuant to separate indemnification obligations. Our results of operation and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected in the future if Holly, Alon, or other third parties fail to satisfy an indemnification obligation owed to us. RISKS TO COMMON UNITHOLDERS Holly and its affiliates have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests. -22- Table of Contents Currently, Holly indirectly owns the 2% general partner interest and a 44% limited partner interest in us and owns and controls our general partner, HEP Logistics Holdings, L.P. Conflicts of interest may arise between Holly and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, the general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over our interests. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • Holly, as a shipper on our pipelines, has an economic incentive not to cause us to seek higher tariff rates or terminalling fees, even if such higher rates or terminalling fees would reflect rates that could be obtained in arm’s-length, third-party transactions; • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Holly to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, including whether to increase or decrease refinery production, whether to shut down or reconfigure a refinery, or what markets to pursue or grow. Holly’s directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of Holly; • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Holly, in resolving conflicts of interest; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by Holly and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of our asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures and borrowings, each of which can affect the amount of cash available to us; and • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates, including the pipelines and terminals agreement with Holly. Cost reimbursements, which will be determined by our general partner, and fees due our general partner and its affiliates for services provided, are substantial. Under our Omnibus Agreement, we are currently obligated to pay Holly an administrative fee of $2.3 million per year for the provision by Holly or its affiliates of various general and administrative services for our benefit. The administrative fee may increase if we make an acquisition that requires an increase in the level of general and administrative services that we receive from Holly or its affiliates. Our general partner will determine the amount of general and administrative expenses that will be properly allocated to us in accordance with the terms of our partnership agreement. In addition, our general partner and its affiliates are entitled to reimbursement for all other expenses they incur on our behalf, including the salaries of and the cost of employee benefits for employees of Holly Logistic Services, L.L.C. who provide services to us. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including officers and directors of the general partner, for all expenses incurred on our behalf, plus the administrative fee. The reimbursement of expenses and the payment of fees could adversely affect our ability to make distributions. The general partner has sole discretion to determine the amount of these expenses. Our general partner and its affiliates also may provide us other services for which we are charged fees as determined by our general partner. Even if unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without its consent. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or the board of directors of our -23- Table of Contents general partner’s general partner and have no right to elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner’s general partner on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner’s general partner is chosen by the members of our general partner’s general partner. Furthermore, if unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove the general partner. Unitholders will be unable to remove the general partner without its consent because the general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to prevent its removal. Also, if the general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by the general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. A removal of the general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect the common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding the general partner liable for actual fraud, gross negligence, or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of the general partner because of the unitholders’ dissatisfaction with the general partner’s performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period. Furthermore, unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than the general partner, its affiliates, their transferees, and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of the general partner’s general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the partners of our general partner from transferring their respective partnership interests in our general partner to a third party. The new partners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of the general partner of our general partner with their own choices and to control the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. We may issue additional common units without unitholder approval, which would dilute an existing unitholder’s ownership interests. During the subordination period, our general partner, without the approval of our unitholders, may cause us to issue up to 3,500,000 additional common units. Our general partner may also cause us to issue an unlimited number of additional common units or other equity securities of equal rank with the common units, without unitholder approval, in a number of circumstances such as: • the issuance of common units in connection with acquisitions or capital improvements that increase cash flow from operations per unit on an estimated pro forma basis; • issuances of common units to repay indebtedness, the cost of which to service is greater than the distribution obligations associated with the units issued in connection with the repayment of the indebtedness; -24- Table of Contents • the conversion of subordinated units into common units; • the conversion of units of equal rank with the common units into common units under some circumstances; • in the event of a combination or subdivision of common units; • issuances of common units under our employee benefit plans; or • the conversion of the general partner interest and the incentive distribution rights into common units as a result of the withdrawal or removal of our general partner. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline, After the end of the subordination period that is currently expected to end as of July 1, 2009, provided there is no significant decrease in our operating performance, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders. Our partnership agreement does not give our unitholders the right to approve our` issuance of equity securities ranking junior to the common units at any time. In establishing cash reserves, our general partner may reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that it establishes are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party, or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available to make the required payments to our debt holders or to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units every quarter. Holly and its affiliates may engage in limited competition with us. Holly and its affiliates may engage in limited competition with us. Pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement among us, Holly and our general partner, Holly and its affiliates agreed not to engage in the business of operating intermediate or refined product pipelines or terminals, crude oil pipelines or terminals, truck racks or crude oil gathering systems in the continental United States. The Omnibus Agreement, however, does not apply to: • any business operated by Holly or any of its subsidiaries at the closing of our initial public offering; -25- Table of Contents • any business or asset that Holly or any of it subsidiaries acquires or constructs that has a fair market value or construction cost of less than $5.0 million; and any business or asset that Holly or any of its subsidiaries acquires or constructs that has a fair market value or construction cost of $5.0 million or more if we have been offered the opportunity to purchase the business or asset at fair market value, and we decline to do so with the concurrence of our conflicts committee. In the event that Holly or its affiliates no longer control our partnership or there is a change of control of Holly, the non-competition provisions of the omnibus agreement will terminate. Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to make cash distributions, even where the purpose or effect of the borrowing benefits our general partner or its affiliates. In some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds from affiliates of Holly or from third parties in order to permit the payment of cash distributions. These borrowings are permitted even if the purpose and effect of the borrowing is to enable us to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions, or to hasten the expiration of the subordination period. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require a holder of units to sell its common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, a holder of common units may be required to sell its units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on its investment. A common unitholder may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of its units. A unitholder may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder actions constitute control of our business. Under Delaware law, a unitholder could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if a court determined that the right of unitholders to remove our general partner or to take other action under our partnership agreement constituted participation in the “control” of our business. Our general partner generally has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. In addition, Section 17-607 and 17-804 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that under some circumstances, a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. TAX RISKS TO COMMON UNITHOLDERS Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. -26- Table of Contents Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business (or a change in current law) could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%. Distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation, possibly on a retroactive basis. At the federal level, legislation has been proposed that would eliminate partnership tax treatment for certain publicly traded partnerships. It could be amended prior to enactment in a manner that does apply to us. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. At the state level, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of such a tax on us by Texas and, if applicable, by any other state will reduce the cash available for distribution to unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we have taken or may take on tax matters. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Unitholders will be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders are treated as partners to whom we allocate taxable income, which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, they are required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability resulting from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If a unitholder sells its common units, it will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and its tax basis in those common units. A unitholder’s amount realized will be measured by the sum of the cash and the fair market value of other property, if any, received by the unitholder, plus its share of our nonrecourse liabilities. Because the amount realized will include the unitholder’s share of our -27- Table of Contents nonrecourse liabilities, the gain recognized by the unitholder on the sale of its units could result in a tax liability in excess of any cash it receives from the sale. Distributions in excess of a unitholder’s allocable share of our net taxable income (“excess distributions”) decrease the unitholder’s tax basis in its common units, which includes its share of nonrecourse liabilities. Such excess distributions with respect to the units sold become taxable income to the unitholder if it sells such units at a price greater than its tax basis in those units, even if the price the unitholder receives is less than its original cost. Moreover, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to a unitholder. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder’s tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, it would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, it may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a -28- Table of Contents short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. We may adopt certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The reporting of partnership tax information is complicated and subject to audits. We furnish each unitholder with a Schedule K-1 that sets forth the unitholder’s share of our income, gains, losses and deductions. We cannot guarantee that these schedules will be prepared in a manner that conforms in all respects to statutory or regulatory requirements or to administrative pronouncements of the IRS. Further, our tax return may be audited, which could result in an audit of a unitholder’s individual tax return and increased liabilities for taxes because of adjustments resulting from the audit. There are limits on the deductibility of our losses that may adversely affect our unitholders. There are a number of limitations that may prevent unitholders from using their allocable share of our losses as a deduction against unrelated income. In the case of taxpayers subject to the passive loss rules (generally, individuals and closely-held corporations), any losses generated by us will only be available to offset our future income and cannot be used to offset income from other activities, including other passive activities or investments. Unused losses may be deducted when the unitholder disposes of its entire investment in us in a fully taxable transaction with an unrelated party. A unitholder’s share of our net passive income may be offset by unused losses from us carried over from prior years, but not by losses from other passive activities, including losses from other publicly traded partnerships. Other limitations that may further restrict the deductibility of our losses by a unitholder include the at-risk rules and the prohibition against loss allocations in excess of the unitholder’s tax basis in its units. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in its taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a -29- Table of Contents new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. Unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, such as state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance, or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property. Unitholders likely will be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own property and conduct business in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado, Utah, Idaho, Oklahoma and Washington. We may own property or conduct business in other states or foreign countries in the future. It is the unitholder’s responsibility to file all federal, state, local, and foreign tax returns. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved SEC staff comments. 