Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below. Any of the factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Also, you should be aware that the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, of which we are not yet aware, or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. You should also refer to the other information contained in and incorporated by reference into this report. Risks Related To Our Business We are an early stage company. We may never attain profitability. The business of acquiring, exploring for, developing and producing hydrocarbon reserves is inherently risky. We have a limited operating history for you to consider in evaluating our business and prospects. Our operations are therefore subject to all of the risks inherent in acquiring, exploring for, developing and producing hydrocarbon reserves, particularly in light of our limited experience in undertaking such activities. We may never overcome these obstacles. Our business is speculative and dependent upon the implementation of our business plan and our ability to enter into agreements with third parties for the rights to exploit potential oil and natural gas reserves on terms that will be commercially viable for us. Our lack of diversification will increase the risk of an investment in us and our financial condition and results of operations may deteriorate if we fail to diversify. Our business is focused on a limited number of properties in Montana, North Dakota, Colorado and Wyoming. We do not intend to limit our focus to any single geographic area because we want to remain flexible and intend to pursue the best opportunities available to us, which may be outside Montana, North Dakota, Colorado and Wyoming as well. We have committed and expect to continue to commit funds to joint ventures with Hancock Enterprises and other parties to acquire and develop acreage. Our required capital commitment may grow if the opportunity presents itself and depends upon the results of initial testing and development activities. Larger companies have the ability to manage their risk by diversification. However, we will lack diversification in terms of both the nature and geographic scope of our business. As a result, we will likely be impacted more acutely by factors 10 Table of Contents affecting our industry or the regions in which we operate than if our business were more diversified enhancing our risk profile. If we cannot diversify our operations, our financial condition and results of operations could deteriorate. Strategic relationships upon which we may rely are subject to change, which may diminish our ability to conduct our operations. Our ability to successfully acquire additional properties, to discover reserves, to participate in exploration opportunities and to identify and enter into commercial arrangements with customers depend on developing and maintaining close working relationships with industry participants, our ability to select and evaluate suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. These realities are subject to change and may impair our ability to grow. To further develop our business, we will endeavor to use the business relationships of our management to enter into strategic relationships, which may take the form of joint ventures with other private parties and contractual arrangements with other oil and gas companies, including those that supply equipment and other resources that we will use in our business. We have entered into a joint venture with Hancock Enterprises for the acreage acquisition phase of our business. Our ability to successfully operate that joint venture depends on a variety of factors, many of which will be entirely outside our control. We may not be able to establish this and other strategic relationships, or if established, we may not be able to maintain them. In addition, the dynamics of our relationships with strategic partners may require us to incur expenses or undertake activities we would not otherwise be inclined to undertake in order to fulfill our obligations to these partners or maintain our relationships. If our strategic relationships are not established or maintained, our business prospects may be limited, which could diminish our ability to conduct our operations. Competition in obtaining rights to explore and develop oil and gas reserves and to market our production may impair our business. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. Other oil and gas companies may seek to acquire oil and gas leases and other properties and services we intend to target with our investments. This competition is increasingly intense as prices of oil and natural gas on the commodities markets have risen in recent years. Additionally, other companies engaged in our line of business may compete with us from time to time in obtaining capital from investors or in funding joint ventures with our prospective partners. Competitors include a variety of potential investors and larger companies, which, in particular, may have access to greater resources, may be more successful in the recruitment and retention of qualified employees and may conduct their own refining and petroleum marketing operations, which may give them a competitive advantage. In addition, actual or potential competitors may be strengthened through the acquisition of additional assets and interests. If we are unable to compete effectively or adequately respond to competitive pressures, this inability may materially adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth, which may harm our profitability. Our strategy envisions expanding our business. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our financial results could be adversely affected. Growth may place a strain on our management systems and resources. We must continue to refine and expand our business development capabilities, our systems and processes and our access to financing sources. As we grow, we must continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. We may not be able to: •meet our capital needs; •expand our systems effectively or efficiently or in a timely manner; 11 Table of Contents •allocate our human resources optimally; •identify and hire qualified employees or retain valued employees; or •incorporate effectively the components of any business that we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth. If we are unable to manage our growth, our operations and our financial results could be adversely affected by inefficiency, which could diminish our profitability. Our business may suffer if we do not attract and retain talented personnel. Our success will depend in large measure on the abilities, expertise, judgment, discretion, integrity and good faith of our management and other personnel in conducting our business. We have a small management team, and the loss of key individuals or the inability to attract suitably qualified staff could materially adversely impact our business. Our success depends on the ability of our management, employees and exploration partners to interpret market and geological data correctly and to interpret and respond to economic market and other conditions in order to locate and adopt appropriate investment opportunities, monitor such investments, and ultimately, if required, to successfully divest such investments. Further, our key personnel may not continue their association or employment with us, or replacement personnel with comparable skills may not be found. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business may be adversely affected. Our hedging activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our net income, which may adversely affect our business. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas production, we may enter into oil and natural gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of expected production that we fund. Such transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: •production is less than expected; •there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; or •the counterparties to our hedging agreements fail to perform under the contracts. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related To Our Industry Our exploration for oil and gas is risky and may not be commercially successful, and the advanced technologies we use cannot eliminate exploration risk, which could impair our ability to generate revenues from our operations. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploration program. Oil and gas exploration involves a high degree of risk. These risks are more acute in the early stages of exploration. Our ability to generate a return on our investments, revenues and our resulting financial performance are significantly affected by the prices we receive for oil and natural gas produced from wells on our acreage. Especially in recent years, the prices at which oil and natural gas trade in the open market have experienced significant volatility, and will likely continue to fluctuate in the foreseeable future due to a variety of influences including, but not limited to, the following: •domestic and foreign demand for oil and natural gas by both refineries and end users; •the introduction of alternative forms of fuel to replace or compete with oil and natural gas; •domestic and foreign reserves and supply of oil and natural gas; •competitive measures implemented by our competitors and domestic and foreign governmental bodies; •weather conditions; and •domestic and foreign economic volatility and stability. A significant decrease in oil and natural gas prices could also adversely impact our ability to raise additional capital to pursue future drilling activities. Our expenditures on exploration may not result in new discoveries of oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. It is difficult to project the costs of implementing an exploratory drilling program due to the inherent uncertainties of drilling in unknown formations, the costs associated with encountering various drilling conditions, such as over-pressured zones and tools lost in the hole, and changes in drilling plans and locations as a result of prior exploratory wells or additional seismic data and interpretations thereof. Even when used and properly interpreted, three-dimensional (3-D) seismic data and visualization techniques only assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. They do not allow the interpreter to know conclusively if hydrocarbons are present or economically producible. In addition, the use of three-dimensional (3-D) seismic data becomes less reliable when used at increasing depths. We could incur losses as a result of expenditures on unsuccessful wells. If exploration costs exceed estimates, or if exploration efforts do not produce results which meet expectations, the exploration efforts may not be commercially successful, which could adversely impact our ability to generate revenues from our operations. We may not be able to develop oil and gas reserves on an economically viable basis, and our reserves and production may decline as a result. If, together with our partners, we succeed in discovering oil and/or natural gas reserves, these reserves may not be capable of the production levels we project or in sufficient quantities to be commercially viable. On a long-term basis, our viability depends on our ability to find or acquire, develop and commercially produce additional oil and natural gas reserves. Without the addition of reserves through acquisition, exploration or development activities, our reserves and production will decline over time as reserves are produced. Our future reserves will depend not only on our ability to develop then-existing properties, but also on our ability to identify and acquire additional suitable 13 Table of Contents producing properties or prospects, to find markets for the oil and natural gas we may develop and to effectively distribute our production. Future oil and gas exploration may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Completion of a well does not assure a profit on the investment or recovery of drilling, completion and operating costs. In addition, drilling hazards or environmental damage could greatly increase the cost of operations, and various field operating conditions may adversely affect the production from successful wells. These conditions include delays in obtaining governmental approvals or consents, shut-downs of connected wells resulting from extreme weather conditions, problems in storage and distribution and adverse geological and mechanical conditions. We will not be able to eliminate these conditions completely in any case. Therefore, these conditions could diminish our revenue and cash flow levels and result in the impairment of our oil and natural gas interests. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves that we make may be inaccurate and actual revenues may be lower than financial projections. We will make estimates of oil and natural gas reserves that we target, upon which we will base financial projections. We will make these reserve estimates using various assumptions, including assumptions as to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Some of these assumptions are inherently subjective, and the accuracy of the reserve estimates relies in part on the ability of our management team, engineers and other advisors to make accurate assumptions. Economic factors beyond our control, such as interest rates, will also impact the value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex, and will require us to use significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each property. As a result, the reserve estimates will be inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from estimates. If actual production results vary substantially from reserve estimates, this could materially reduce revenues and result in the impairment of our oil and natural gas interests. Prices and markets for oil and natural gas are unpredictable and tend to fluctuate significantly, which could reduce profitability, growth and the value of our business. Oil and natural gas are commodities whose prices are determined based on world demand, supply and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. World prices for oil and natural gas have fluctuated widely in recent years, and we expect that prices will fluctuate in the future. Price fluctuations will have a significant impact upon our revenue, the return from our reserves and on our financial condition generally. Price fluctuations for oil and natural gas commodities may also impact the investment market for companies engaged in the oil and gas industry. Prices may not remain at current levels. Decreases in the prices of oil and natural gas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, the future results of our operations and quantities of reserves recoverable on an economic basis. Penalties we may incur could impair our business. Failure to comply with government regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties, could require us to forfeit property rights, and may affect the value of our assets. We may also be required to take corrective actions, such as installing additional equipment or taking other actions, each of which could require us to make substantial capital expenditures. We could also be required to indemnify our employees in connection with any expenses or liabilities that they may incur individually in connection with regulatory action against them. As a result, our future business prospects could 14 Table of Contents deteriorate due to regulatory constraints, and our profitability could be impaired by our obligation to provide such indemnification to our employees. Environmental risks may adversely affect our business. All phases of the oil and gas business present environmental risks and hazards and are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of federal, state and municipal laws and regulations. Environmental legislation provides for, among other things, restrictions and prohibitions on spills, releases or emissions of various substances produced in association with oil and gas operations. The legislation also requires that wells and facility sites be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Compliance with such legislation can require significant expenditures and a breach may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, some of which may be material. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner in which we expect may result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability and potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. The discharge of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to liabilities to governments and third parties and may require us to incur costs to remedy such discharge. The application of environmental laws to our business may cause us to curtail our production or increase the costs of our production, development or exploration activities. Challenges to our properties may impact our financial condition. Title to oil and gas interests is often not capable of conclusive determination without incurring substantial expense. Title defects may exist in many of our oil and gas interests. In addition, we may be unable to obtain adequate insurance for title defects, on a commercially reasonable basis or at all. If title defects do exist, it is possible that we may lose all or a portion of our right, title and interests in and to the properties to which the title defects relate. If our property rights are reduced, our ability to conduct our exploration, development and production activities may be impaired. We will rely on technology to conduct our business and our technology could become ineffective or obsolete. We rely on technology, including geographic and seismic analysis techniques and economic models, to develop our reserve estimates and to guide our exploration, development and production activities. We will be required to continually enhance and update our technology to maintain our efficacy and to avoid obsolescence. The costs of doing so may be substantial, and may be higher than the costs that we anticipated for technology maintenance and development. If we are unable to maintain the efficacy of our technology, our ability to manage our business and to compete may be impaired. Further, even if we are able to maintain technical effectiveness, our technology may not be the most efficient means of reaching our objectives, in which case we may incur higher operating costs than we would were our technology more efficient. Our acreage price assumptions may not be accurate. We use estimates for acreage prices. These numbers may not accurately represent the market. Actual acreage prices may be higher or lower by significant amounts. The market for acreage has traditionally been illiquid and non-transparent as well as volatile. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Owning Voyager Common Stock Voyager's Board of Directors' ability to issue undesignated preferred stock and the existence of anti-takeover provisions may depress the value of our common stock. Voyager's authorized capital includes 20 million shares of undesignated preferred stock. Voyager's Board has the power to issue any or all of the shares of preferred stock, including the authority to establish one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences, rights and limitations of such class or series, without seeking stockholder approval. Further, as a Delaware corporation, Voyager is subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law regarding "business combinations." The Voyager Board may, in the future, consider adopting additional anti-takeover measures. The authority of Voyager's Board to issue undesignated stock and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law, as well as any future anti-takeover measures adopted by Voyager, may, in certain circumstances, delay, deter or prevent takeover attempts and other changes in control of Voyager that are not approved by the Board. As a result, Voyager's stockholders may lose opportunities to dispose of their shares at favorable prices generally available in takeover attempts or that may be available under a merger proposal and the market price, voting and other rights of the holders of common stock may also be affected. Voyager does not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. Voyager does not intend to declare dividends for the foreseeable future, as it anticipates that it will reinvest any future earnings in the development and growth of the Company's business. Therefore, stockholders of Voyager will not receive any funds unless they sell their common stock or warrants, and stockholders may be unable to sell their shares and warrants on favorable terms or at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 