Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the following risk factors in evaluating our business, financial condition and operating results or an investment in our common stock. Many of these risks are beyond our control. Although we describe below and elsewhere in this Annual Report the risks we consider to be the most material, there may be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results in the future. In addition, past performance may not be reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. If any of the events, conditions or risks described below, individually or in combination, were to occur, our business, financial condition and operating results and/or cash flow could be materially adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Our business strategy may not succeed in the long term. Our business strategy has been to offer unlimited wireless broadband mobile services predominately on a paid-in-advance basis for flat monthly rates without requiring a long-term service contract or a credit check. Our service plans may not continue to meet customer demands, competitive offers, or could prove to be unsuccessful in the long term. A number of other wireless broadband mobile carriers, resellers and MVNOs are offering, or in the future may offer, services plans similar to, or competitive with, our service plans with more extensive geographic coverage than ours, more features, greater speeds, and other differentiating features. If our business strategy is unsuccessful, we may be forced to alter our service offerings, cost structure and geographic focus, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we have a disproportionate number of our customers on our lower priced service plans, if our customers do not purchase our service plans in the mix we anticipate, or if our customers use more services, such as roaming, domestic or international long distance, that we purchase from third parties than we anticipate, it could result in lower revenues, higher expenses, and lower profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. From time to time, we evaluate our products, service offerings and the demands of our target customers and may, as a result, amend, change, discontinue or adjust our products and service offerings or initiate or offer new permanent, trial or promotional product or service offerings. These new or changed product and service offerings may not meet customer demands, competitive offers, or may not succeed in the long term, or prove to be profitable. These new or changed product and service offerings may result in reduced revenues, increased expenses, lower profitability, and other adverse financial or operational consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our tax inclusive plans make us susceptible to increases in taxes and regulatory fees. We offer service plans that include applicable taxes and regulatory fees for a flat fee. The government and regulatory agencies may increase the taxes and regulatory fees payable on our services and we may currently be at a greater risk from such increases because of budget shortfalls and regulatory policies. We do not have control over changes in tax rates, laws, regulations or rulings, or federal and state tax assessments. If the government or regulatory agencies increase the taxes or regulatory fees that are attributable to our services, or change the services on which such taxes or regulatory fees are to be paid, it could negatively impact the profitability of our services. If we attempted to pass through such increased taxes and regulatory fees to our customers, we could experience increased churn, decreased revenues or fewer customer additions. If we experience lower profitability, lower margins, increased churn, or lower sales, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our inability to maintain or strengthen our brands may reduce our ability to retain and attract customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. With increased competition in the wireless telecommunications industry, in particular in the fixed-price, unlimited use of paid-in-advance services, we believe marketing and promotional activities are critical to the success of the business and a strong brand and image is an essential part of our marketing activities. Developing, promoting and maintaining our brand and image requires a consistent capital investment and expense and there can be no assurance that this investment in our brand and image or the promotion of our brand and image will be successful. If we fail to develop, promote and maintain a strong brand and image or we are unsuccessful in promoting our brands it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. A failure to meet the demands of our customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Customer demand for our products and services could be impacted by numerous factors including the different types of products and services offered, service content, features, data speeds, technology, coverage, compatible handset options, distribution, service areas, network operability and quality, customer perceptions, customer care levels and the prices and range of service plans and products. Managing these factors and customers’ expectations of these factors is essential in attracting and retaining customers. We continually incur costs in order to improve and enhance our products and services to remain competitive and to keep up with our customer demand, which include costs to expand the capacity and coverage of our network, costs to replace or migrate to new technology platforms, 28 Table of Contents vendors or services, costs to enhance or upgrade our networks, including costs to upgrade to long term evolution, or 4G LTE, or other fourth generation technologies, costs to purchase additional spectrum and necessary infrastructure equipment, costs to implement new or different services, service plans, handsets and related accessories to meet customer needs and costs to secure the necessary governmental approvals and renewals for our operations. Delays or failure to purchase additional spectrum or to make these enhancements to our products, services or network, could limit our ability to meet our customer demands or customer expectations. Further, even if we continually upgrade and maintain our networks and enhance our products and services, there can be no assurance that our existing customers will not switch to another wireless provider or that we will be able to attract new customers. If we are unable to meet our customer demands or customer expectations, including providing customers with reliable and compatible network devices, or manage our sales, distribution, advertising, customer support, billing and collection, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining customers, which could increase our churn and operating costs and decrease our revenue, resulting in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Similarly, if our vendors deliver 4G LTE products and services that do not work as anticipated, fail to meet customer expectations, or fail to operate properly, we may not receive revenue on our investment in 4G LTE. For example, if a 4G LTE handset is lacking in certain features that our customers expect, our existing and potential customers may not purchase the handsets. Further, we presently provide limited subsidies for handsets to our customers, so the price of the handset may also reduce the demand for the handsets and we will incur an expense equal to the difference between the price we pay for the handset and the price we receive from the customer. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may not be successful in continuing to grow our customer base. Our business plan assumes continued growth in our customer base. Our ability to grow our customer base and achieve the customer penetration levels that we currently believe are possible with our business model in our markets is subject to a number of risks, including: • customer demand for our products and services and our inability to meet those customer expectations and demands; • our inability or our supplier’s inability to obtain or offer and provide products or services which our current or prospective customers demand, want, expect or need; • increased competition from existing competitors or new competitors; • our inability to differentiate our services from the services offered by our competitors; • higher than anticipated churn in our markets or lower than anticipated gross adds in our markets; • our inability to increase our network capacity in areas we currently serve to meet increasing customer demand; • our inability to offer competitive data services; • limitations in our customer service, billing and other systems; • our inability to manage inventory and adequately forecast our inventory needs, such as handset quantity, quality and type; • our inability to provide service in areas demanded by our current and prospective customers; • our inability to attract and retain indirect agents and dealers for our products and services; • our inability to increase the relevant coverage areas in our existing markets, to expand our roaming arrangements to areas that are important to our customers or to allow us to offer services at rates which are attractive to our current and prospective customers; • unfavorable United States economic conditions, which may have a disproportionate negative impact on certain portions of our customer base including an impact on their ability to buy new handsets or pay for our services; 29 Table of Contents • changes in the demographics of our markets; and • adverse changes in the legislative and regulatory environment that may limit our ability to differentiate our services or grow our customer base. If we are unable to achieve the aggregate levels of customer penetration that we currently believe are possible with our business model, our ability to continue to increase our customer base and revenues at the rates we currently expect may be limited and we may fail to achieve additional economies of scale. Any failure to achieve the penetration levels we currently believe are possible with our business model and to successfully increase our customer base could limit our ability to repay our indebtedness and may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business is seasonal and our operating results for future periods will be affected negatively if we fail to have strong customer growth in the first and fourth quarters. Our business is seasonal and reflective of promotional activity, competition in the industry and the existing economic conditions. Our largest numbers of subscribers are typically added in the first and fourth quarters. However, sales activity and churn can be strongly affected by the launch of new and surrounding metropolitan areas, by the introduction of new price plans, and by, promotional activity, all of which can reduce or outweigh certain seasonal effects. If we fail to meet our expectations for customer additions in the first or fourth quarter, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results for future periods. Failing to manage our churn rate or experiencing a higher rate of customer turnover than we have forecasted could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our customers do not have long-term contracts and can discontinue their service at any time without penalty or advance notice to us. In addition, as handset prices continue to decline, they become more disposable for our customers, who may then change wireless providers or phones, increasing our churn. Our rate of customer churn can be affected by a number of factors, including the following: • network issues, including network coverage, network reliability, technology upgrades, dropped and blocked calls, data speeds, network responsiveness, and network availability; • geographic coverage, including roaming coverage at affordable rates, which has historically been less extensive than our competitors; • affordability and general economic conditions; • supplier or vendor failures; • customer perceptions of and demand for our products, services and offerings; • customer care concerns, including reliance on automated customer service solutions that do not provide customers with the one on one attention they desire; • our ability to differentiate our services from our competitors; • our rate of growth; • our rate plans, distribution model, and incentives to our direct dealers and agents; • handset, application, and content selection and issues, including lack of access, or early access, to the newest handsets, innovative wireless applications, and content, handset prices and handset problems; • the types, make-up and nature of our service plans and our marketing and promotional offers; • wireless number portability requirements that allow customers to keep their wireless phone numbers when switching between service providers; 30 Table of Contents • our inability to offer bundled services or services offered by our competitors; • our lack of 4G LTE broadband wireless network over all of our current CDMA service area and in our roaming service areas; • delays or problems in our roll-out of 4G LTE; and • competition and competitive offers by other wireless broadband mobile service providers. We cannot assure you that our strategies to address customer churn will be successful. In addition, we may not be able to profitably replace customers who leave our service or replace them at all. If we experience a churn rate higher than we expect or fail to replace lost customers, we could experience reduced revenues and increased marketing costs to attract replacement customers required to sustain our business plan, which could reduce our profit margin and could reduce the cash available to construct and operate new metropolitan areas, to expand coverage and capacity in existing metropolitan areas, or to upgrade our networks to 4G LTE, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our operations require continued capital expenditures and a failure to access additional capital could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business strategy involves expanding into and competing in major metropolitan areas, all of which have significant established competition from other providers. To compete effectively, we must continue to upgrade and enhance our network and services. As a result, we have invested and expect to continue to invest a significant amount of capital in the future to construct, maintain, upgrade and operate our network, billing, customer care and information systems, to implement our business plans, including our 4G LTE network, and to support future growth of our wireless business. No assurance can be given that our future capital expenditures will generate a positive return or that we will have adequate capital available to finance future upgrades and enhancements to our network. Historically, we have been able to finance our growth and build out of our existing and planned metropolitan areas and fund capital expenditures and service our debt from cash internally generated from our operations and various debt and equity offerings. If our current cash and excess internally generated cash flows are insufficient to fund our business plan, improve and expand our network infrastructure and services, participate in new opportunities, engage in acquisitions of additional spectrum or businesses or participate in future FCC auctions, or service our debt, we may be forced to sell additional equity, seek additional debt financing, borrow additional amounts under our existing senior secured credit facility, refinance our existing indebtedness, sell markets or spectrum, or delay certain of our planned expansion or other initiatives, additions of capacity, and technological advances. Our senior secured credit facility and indentures and supplemental indentures governing our senior notes, permit us, subject to specific limitations and restrictions, to incur additional indebtedness. Our senior secured credit facility includes a presently undrawn revolving line of credit that is to be funded by a number of commercial and investment banks. However, worldwide economic conditions, a banking crisis, or tightening capital markets may affect whether our lenders are able to honor their commitments to fund our revolving line of credit should we need to draw on such line of credit to pursue new opportunities, engage in acquisitions, or purchase additional spectrum. Additionally, we may require additional capital to fund our long-term business plan, including operating losses associated with new markets and businesses, network expansion and upgrades, servicing of our debt, possible spectrum acquisitions or other business combinations or acquisitions. Our success and viability will depend on our ability to maintain and increase revenues and to raise additional capital, when and if needed, on reasonable terms. We may not have the cash or be able to arrange additional financing, whether debt, equity or otherwise, to fund our future needs on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our ability to arrange additional financing will depend on, among other factors, our credit ratings, the prospects for our business, our leverage, financial and operating performance, general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory conditions, consumer credit conditions, consumer confidence, unemployment rates and prevailing capital market conditions. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Failure to obtain suitable financing when needed could, among other things, result in our inability to continue to expand our businesses as planned or to meet competitive challenges; forego strategic opportunities; delay and/or reduce network deployments, upgrades, and capital 31 Table of Contents expenditures, operations, spectrum acquisitions and investments; and restructure or refinance our indebtedness prior to maturity or sell additional equity or seek additional debt financing. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our working capital and other liquidity needs, or at all. Further, as our operations grow, it may be more difficult to adapt and modify our business plan based on the availability of funding. If we incur significant additional indebtedness, or if we do not continue to generate sufficient cash from our operations, our credit ratings could be adversely affected, which would likely increase our future borrowing costs and could affect our ability to access additional capital. We face intense competition from other telecommunications providers and new entrants in the marketplace. We compete directly in each of our markets with wireless, wireline, cable, satellite, Internet and other communications service providers. Many of our current and prospective competitors are, or are affiliated with, major companies that have better developed brands, networks and support systems, and substantially greater financial, technical, personnel, marketing and lobbying resources and bargaining power than we have. Some have greater access to capital, cash reserves, and spectrum holdings; longer-established brands with better name recognition; larger geographic coverage areas, roaming territories, and third-party distribution networks; unique intellectual property; exclusive distributorship arrangements for certain popular brands of handsets, applications and content and a larger market share; and more advanced technology than we have, all of which may affect our ability to compete successfully. These competitors often have established relationships with a larger base of current and potential customers and, due to their size and bargaining power, may obtain discounts for features, either directly or indirectly through resellers, equipment, handsets, either directly or indirectly through resellers, content, and services. Further, as the growth in the post-pay sector of the wireless industry continues to decrease, many of the largest nationwide competitors with ample resources have or are entering into the paid-in-advance sector of the wireless industry, either directly or indirectly through resellers, significantly increasing competition and pushing down prices with aggressive sales and marketing campaigns. These advantages may allow our competitors to offer services (including, handset subsidies, higher commissions to distributors and dealers, broader geographic coverage, more facilities or services, and greater bundled features and content) we do not and cannot offer, offer lower prices, market to broader customer segments, and offer service over larger geographic areas, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Further concentration of the market may result in our having one or two competitors with such market power that our ability to compete may be adversely affected. Some of our competitors have, or may in the future, take advantage of governmental loan, grant or credit programs, or universal service fund payments which may allow them to offer services for lower prices, have lower costs, or provide service in areas that may be uneconomical for us to serve without taking advantage of such programs. If we choose not to, or are unable to, participate in such governmental programs and our competitors participate in such programs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. We may face additional competition from existing or new entrants as a result of future FCC auctions of spectrum and/or through legislative change or actions by the FCC allowing the development of new products and services by existing competitors and allowing other non-telecommunications businesses to enter the industry. The FCC in the past has taken, and may in the future take, steps to make additional spectrum available for wireless services. Any auction and licensing of new spectrum, or relaxation of requirements on existing spectrum licenses may result in new competitors and/or allow existing competitors to acquire additional, or make use of existing, spectrum, which could allow them to offer services that we may not be able to offer, or offer on a competitive basis, with the licenses we hold due to technological or economic constraints. For example, in March 2010, the FCC released its National Broadband Plan which recommends that the FCC make available 500 MHz of spectrum for broadband wireless services within the next ten years of which 300 MHz is recommended to be made newly available for mobile use within five years. Of this 300 MHz of spectrum, 70 MHz is recommended to come through the auction of allocated, but unassigned spectrum, which could occur within the next 18 months. In addition, 110 MHz is recommended to become available through the revision of existing technical and service rules for wireless communication services, or WCS, and mobile satellite services which also could occur within the next 18 months. Further, 120 MHz of spectrum may become available from digital television broadcasters through an incentive auction which is recommended to be held in 24 to 36 months, assuming the FCC receives congressional 32 Table of Contents authority to hold such an incentive auction. The FCC also has taken recent actions, and may take further actions, to impose new construction requirements on broadband spectrum licenses. For example, the revision of the WCS has been, and mobile satellite service rules may be, coupled with more stringent build out requirements. And, as it did in approving a recent transaction involving satellite service provider Skyterra (now known as LightSquared), the Commission may condition its approval of a license transfer by requiring the acquirer to meet new stringent ancillary terrestrial equipment coverage requirements. Stringent construction requirements could be detrimental to us by fostering increased competition at an earlier date. Also, the FCC has taken, and in the future may take, regulatory actions designed to provide greater capacity and flexibility to other licensees, including our competitors, and could allow companies that are not currently our competitors to offer competing products and services. In addition, some companies in non-telecommunications businesses, including cable, energy companies and utility companies, also are expanding their services to offer communications and broadband services. Moreover, some companies in non-regulated portions of the telecommunications business, such as Internet search engine companies, are offering products and services that compete with our more highly regulated services. We cannot control most of these factors and the continuing consolidation and resulting economies of scale and access to greater resources and additional competition could result in greater product, service, pricing and cost disadvantages to us which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The continuing consolidation in the wireless industry through mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures is creating increased competition and marketing initiatives. Joint ventures, mergers and strategic alliances in the wireless industry have resulted in, and if the trend continues, will continue to foster, larger competitors competing for a limited number of customers. Currently, two of the largest wireless broadband mobile carriers currently hold in excess of 60% of all wireless subscribers in the industry and may have dominant market power. With the increased competition and with the effect of the aggregate penetration of wireless services in all markets, which has made it more difficult to attract and retain customers, our operating results could be adversely affected by such larger competitors with greater resources and means to compete and our ability to grow may be hindered. Our competitors have licensed spectrum which is not always in the same bands as our spectrum and the extent to which future handsets will be compatible across all bands of spectrum is uncertain. Accordingly, we may not achieve the same economies of scale with respect to the future handsets as we enjoy today. Many of our competitors with greater access to capital and production and distribution resources also have entered into or may enter into exclusive deals with vendors and suppliers, including handset vendors, wireless application developers and content providers, or may cause such venders to only develop products, or services useable on their spectrum. As handset, application, and content selection and pricing are increasingly important to customers, the lack of availability to us of some of the latest and most popular handsets, applications, and content, whether as a result of exclusive dealings or volume discounting, could put us at a significant competitive disadvantage and could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain our customers, especially as our competitors continue to offer aggressively handset promotions. Similarly, we believe we pay more, on average, than other national carriers for our handsets and if this continues and new technologies force us to offer new handsets and services, we could be forced to further subsidize the price of our handsets and pay higher sales commissions on the sale or upgrade of handsets, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We may face increasing competitive pricing and service bundling, which could adversely impact our ability to attract and retain customers and the profitability of our services. The competitive pressures of the wireless telecommunications industry have caused, and may continue to cause, other carriers to offer unlimited service plans or service plans with increasingly large bundles of minutes of use or unlimited use at increasingly lower prices or fixed monthly prices on a national coverage basis. All of our national wireless broadband mobile competitors and certain of our regional competitors and MVNOs currently are offering unlimited fixed-rate service plans in the areas where we operate. In addition, other wireless broadband mobile competitors may offer unlimited fixed-rate service plans as well. Since we primarily serve major metropolitan areas where the national wireless broadband mobile carriers and MVNOs are also offering services and we believe the overall post-paid market is experiencing slowing growth, we anticipate increased competition in the paid-in-advance sector of the wireless broadband mobile industry, which may subject us to greater commercial disadvantages. Further, market prices for wireless broadband mobile services in general, and for fixed-price, unlimited use of paid-in-advance services in particular, have declined over time and we anticipate will continue to decline with increased competition, including competition from carriers and MVNOs. Moreover, certain carriers we compete against, or may compete against in the future, offer additional services, such as wireline phone service, cable or satellite television, media and Internet, and are capable of bundling their wireless services with these other services in a package of services that we may not be able to duplicate at competitive prices. In response to all the competitive 33 Table of Contents offerings in the marketplace and falling market prices, we have added, and in the future may be required to add, additional select features to our existing service plans, change the geographic areas included in our roaming, long-distance and other products and services, reduce our prices, and change our service plans. We may also consider additional targeted promotional activities, reduced pricing, subsidizing the cost of handsets, or increasing commission payments to our indirect dealers as we evaluate and respond to the competitive environment going forward. We cannot control the pricing decisions of our competitors and many may continue to reduce pricing, which combined with discounts afforded such competitors and their bundled feature capability, we expect that this increased competition may result in more competitive pricing, slower growth, higher costs and increased churn of our customer base, as well as the possibility of having to change our service plans in response to customer demands, preferences and demographic trends, increase our handset subsidies, increase our dealer payments, and increase our marketing and distribution costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Failure to respond timely to competition and marketing strategies could reduce revenue, market share and net income, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may not be able to respond quickly or effectively to new marketing and sales initiatives launched by our competitors. Many of our competitors have far greater resources, including sales and marketing resources with far larger marketing budgets, than we do. We do not know and cannot anticipate what sales and marketing initiatives our competitors may launch or the magnitude of their efforts, including offers of discounted or free services and reimbursement of cancellation fees. As a result, our response may be ineffective after our competitors have already launched their sales and marketing initiatives, may be delayed by longer lead-time elements in our business system, such as network resources and billing software, we may be unable or unwilling to spend the amounts necessary to effectively respond to such new marketing and sales initiatives, and we may have increased marketing and distribution costs as such special or promotional initiatives can result in significant expenses and the initiative may not result in retention of customers beyond the promotion, which failure to retain such customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Further, our business model is premised on the company achieving and maintaining a low cost structure, which we achieve by centralizing certain sales and marketing activities and designing and implementing major sales and marketing efforts across all of the metropolitan areas we serve. Such centralization may allow our competitors to offer local or regional marketing initiatives and promotions to which we do not or cannot effectively respond. Further, in general, we also do not spend as much on advertising and marketing as some of our competitors. We generally have had, and anticipate in the future having, less sales and marketing resources than our competitors, and we have spent, and anticipate spending, less on advertising and marketing than our competitors. We generally do not have the resources to respond to all advertising and marketing initiatives of our competitors and consequently our efforts may be ineffective, or our response may be inadequate to the competitive initiatives, which may allow our competitors to gain competitive share and to have an effect on our brand and sales and marketing efforts. We may not have time to conduct extensive customer focus groups or sales trials before launching our sales and marketing initiatives companywide. As a result, our initial sales and marketing initiatives may not adequately respond to our competitors’ sales and marketing initiatives or meet customer expectations or demands. If we are unable to respond quickly enough or effectively to new marketing and sales initiatives launched by our competitors, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. We may not successfully manage our handset inventories to meet the demands of our customers. Our marketing and purchasing personnel are required to coordinate their activities to ensure that our distribution channels have adequate sales stock of handsets and other add ons to support our sales and marketing initiatives. Management of inventory balances requires accurate forecasting of customer growth and demand. If we fail to maintain an adequate sales stock of the appropriate model and type of handsets to meet the demands and preferences of our customers and to support our sales and marketing initiatives, we could have excess customer demand for handsets with only a limited supply or an excess supply of handsets for which we have limited or no demand. Additionally, we may fail to predict and select the appropriate handsets for our marketing and sales initiatives resulting in us not meeting our customer’s demands, lost sales opportunities or a buildup of inventory that could not be sold easily. Any failure to manage and control our supply inventories could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow and our business, financial condition, and operating results. 34 Table of Contents We may not be able to respond to the rapid technological changes occurring in the wireless industry. The wireless telecommunications industry has been, and we believe will continue to be, characterized by significant technological change, including the rapid development and introduction of new technologies, products, and services, such as voice-over Internet protocol, or VoIP, push-to-talk services, location-based services, such as global positioning satellite, or GPS, mapping technology, social networking services, and high speed data services, including streaming audio, streaming video, mobile gaming, mobile banking, music and file downloads, advertisement paid services, video conferencing and other applications. These technological advances, evolving industry standards, ongoing improvements in the capacity and the quality of digital technology, such as the implementation and development of 3G technology, wideband technologies such as WiFi which do not rely on FCC-licensed spectrum, or the development of 4G technology, such as 4G LTE or WiMax, and the development of data and broadband capabilities, could cause the technology used by us on our wireless broadband mobile network to become less competitive or obsolete. Additionally, VoIP is an emerging technological trend that could result in a decrease in demand for switched telephone services, such as those we currently provide. The resulting technological development of WiFi or WiMax enabled handsets permitting customers to communicate using voice and data services with their handset using this VoIP technology in any area equipped with a wireless Internet connection, or hot spots, could potentially allow more carriers to offer larger bundles of minutes while retaining low prices and the ability to offer attractive roaming rates. The number of hot spots in the U.S. is growing rapidly, with some major cities and urban areas approaching universal coverage. Further, the development of new equipment, such as femtocells, could allow our competitors to offer increased usage without increased cost thus reducing our cost advantage. As a result, competitors using more traditional and commercially proven technological advances to provide service or using more efficient, less expensive technologies (including those not yet developed), may have a competitive advantage over us by retaining and increasing their customer base, realizing certain economies of scale, and receiving greater support from equipment and other manufacturers. As the CDMA infrastructure of our network becomes less popular or obsolete, the cost of compatible equipment and technology may also increase and we may also be subject to significant write-offs or changes in estimated useful life. Our continued success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate or adapt to these and future technological changes and to offer, on a timely basis, products and services that meet customer demands. For us to keep pace with these technological changes and remain competitive, we may continue to make significant capital expenditures in our networks, acquire additional spectrum, and design and offer new services. Customer acceptance of the products, applications, content, and services that we offer will continually be affected by technology-based differences in our product and service offerings and those offered by our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will obtain access to new technology on a timely basis, on satisfactory terms, or on our spectrum, or that we will have adequate spectrum, or be able to acquire additional spectrum, to offer new services or implement new technologies. If we do not offer these applications, content, or services, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining customers. Further, we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. We also cannot be certain that the choices we make regarding technology and new service offerings will prove to be successful in the marketplace or will achieve their intended results. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are dependent on certain network technology improvements, which may not occur or may be materially delayed. Most national wireless broadband mobile carriers have greater spectrum capacity than we do that can be used to support 3G and 4G services. These national wireless broadband mobile carriers currently are investing substantial capital to deploy the necessary equipment to deliver 3G or 4G enhanced services, and have invested in additional spectrum to deliver 4G LTE services. Two of our national wireless broadband mobile competitors acquired a significant portion of the 700 MHz spectrum auctioned by the FCC. We hold a 700 MHz license which is in a different spectrum block than the 700 MHz licenses held by the two largest national wireless broadband mobile competitors, which presents certain risks because some equipment manufacturers are focusing their 700 MHz equipment development efforts on the channel blocks held by the major carriers, and the 700 MHz equipment made by these manufacturers will not be cross-compatible for use on the 700 MHz channel block we hold. As a result, we may be unable to use, or may be materially delayed in using, our 700 MHz spectrum. And, we may have higher costs for devices and equipment for our 700 MHz spectrum and the prospects for both inbound and outbound roaming may be limited on 700 MHz spectrum. Further, we are deploying 4G LTE on PCS and AWS spectrum so unless our customer’s handsets are capable of using the 700 MHz spectrum on which our competitors are deploying 4G LTE, our customers will not be able to roam on their networks for 4G LTE services. This may affect our ability to offer roaming on 4G LTE broadband services. The national wireless broadband mobile carriers in many instances 35 Table of Contents on average have more spectrum in each of the metropolitan areas in which we operate, or plan to operate, and may have spectrum with better propagation characteristics. We have deployed and are selling 4G LTE services in all except one of our major metropolitan areas. Our decision to develop 4G LTE technology has and will continue to require significant capital expenditures. In some cases, because of the limited amount of spectrum available to us in certain metropolitan areas, we will be required to deploy 4G LTE on 1.4 or 3 MHz channels adjacent to our existing CDMA network in those metropolitan areas. This deployment will require engineering solutions, which may not work as anticipated, or which may take longer to deploy than anticipated. We currently are dependent on a limited number of infrastructure and equipment providers to assist us in the development and deployment of our 4G LTE network and to manufacture equipment for use on our network. Our plans to upgrade our network to 4G LTE technology may result in additional risks and expenditures such as, among other things: • inability to timely develop and engineer design and network changes for the deployment and offering of 4G LTE services; • reliance on existing engineering staff in each of our metropolitan markets to oversee our 4G LTE deployment; • delay in the deployment of our 4G LTE networks due to lack of necessary equipment and products being designed and manufactured or due to limited staffing resources and lack of proper coordination across all our markets; • network and system compatibility issues; • unanticipated and unforeseen costs or higher costs attributable to the lack of experience with 4G LTE technology and the implementation of the deployment of 4G LTE technology and the maintenance of the 4G LTE technology and network; • inability to acquire or lease additional cell sites or lease additional space at existing cell sites needed for expansion; • obtaining necessary permits and regulatory approvals or third-party approvals for network construction, implementation and deployment; • possible quality and reliability issues of the 4G LTE network once deployed due to integration, compatibility or coverage concerns; • dependency on a limited number of providers for necessary engineering, design and manufacture of technology, equipment and products compatible with 4G LTE technology; and • ongoing improvements with digital technology and shorter development cycles for new equipment, technology and products with the everchanging customer requirements and preferences. In the meantime, our limited spectrum may require us to lease more cell sites to provide equivalent service, spend greater capital compared to our competitors, deploy more expensive network equipment, such as six-sector antennas, make more extensive use of DAS systems, deploy equipment sooner, or make us more dependent on technological development, than our competitors. There can be no assurance that we can lease adequate tower sites or additional spectrum, have access to DAS systems, or that our suppliers will undertake the necessary and timely technological developments. Moreover, once deployed on a commercial basis, our 4G LTE technology may not perform as expected or deliver the quality and types of services or performance we expect. We cannot assure you that necessary quantities of equipment and compatible devices will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or will operate on our network or will provide the customer with the quality and quantity of features desired, nor that when delivered such equipment and devices will be at cost-effective prices. If the anticipated development and deployment of our 4G LTE technology improvements are not achieved, or are not achieved in the projected timeframes, or at the costs we anticipate or can afford, or are not developed by our existing suppliers, we may not have adequate spectrum in certain metropolitan areas, which may limit our ability to increase our customer base, may inhibit our ability to achieve additional economies of scale, may limit our ability to offer new services offered by our competitors, may require us to spend considerably more capital and incur more 36 Table of Contents operating expenses than our competitors with more spectrum, and may force us to purchase additional spectrum at a potentially material cost. If our network infrastructure vendors do not supply such improvements, or materially delay the delivery of such improvements, and other network equipment manufacturers are able to develop such technology, we may be at a material competitive disadvantage to our competitors and we may be required to change network infrastructure vendors, which would result in lost time and expense. Further, our 4G LTE expansion may result in the degradation of our existing services. There can be no assurance that we can deploy and implement our 4G LTE services timely and at a level that will meet customer expectations, provide wireless broadband mobile data service on a profitable basis, that we will be able to enter into roaming arrangements for 3G/4G services on economical terms or at all, or that vendors will develop and make available to companies of our size popular applications and handsets with features, functionality and pricing desired by customers. These risks could reduce our customer growth, increase our costs of providing services and increase our churn, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may be unable to expand our 4G LTE services beyond our existing service area to meet customer expectations. We do not anticipate being able initially, and may not in the future be able, to provide 4G LTE service outside our existing service areas. Since at this time a limited number of carriers have publicly announced that they are planning to deploy 4G LTE in the near future, the number of potential roaming partners for 4G LTE will be extremely limited and are currently deploying 4G LTE on spectrum that is different than the spectrum we are deploying 4G LTE on. In addition, the current automatic roaming requirements do not include data roaming. Other carriers have in the past, and may in the future, be reluctant to provide data roaming to us at all or on terms we consider to be acceptable. In addition, some of the carriers who currently provide roaming to us may be delayed in deploying, decide not to deploy, or be unable to deploy 4G LTE, which would limit our ability to provide 4G LTE services to our customers when they roam. Further, since 4G LTE is relatively new and carriers may attempt to differentiate their services using 4G LTE, carriers may be reluctant to allow roaming at all or at prices that would make roaming cost effective for our customers. If our customers or potential customers demand 4G LTE services on a nationwide basis or our competitors offer 4G services on a nationwide basis, we may be unable to meet customer expectations or demands and we may attract less than the anticipated number of 4G LTE customers or we may experience higher than anticipated levels of churn. If we do not attract the number of 4G LTE customers we anticipate, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financials and results of operations. We may have difficulty meeting the demands placed on our network by data products. We are increasingly selling, and may in the future sell even larger numbers of, handsets and devices, such as devices using the Android operating system, that are placing, and may in the future place, a higher demand on our existing CDMA and 4G LTE networks than handsets we have historically sold. We may not be able to satisfy the demands that these devices place on our network, we may not be able to profitably provide the data services used by these devices, and these devices may cause network congestion and issues with respect to our existing customers. If we are unable to satisfy the demands of these new devices in our existing CDMA and 4G LTE networks, we are unable to offer these services profitably, or these devices cause network congestion and issues with respect to our existing customers, we may lose customers. In addition, in order to meet the demands of these new devices we may be required to spend significant capital to build additional network capacity, lease additional sites, build additional DAS systems, purchase additional spectrum, or undertake other costs and expenses which could increase our costs. If we experience any of these problems or have to undertake additional costs and expenses to meet the demands placed on our network by these devices, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may be unable to successfully develop and incorporate wireless data services profitably into our service offerings in the future. Wireless broadband mobile data services are increasingly becoming a meaningful component of many wireless broadband mobile carriers’ strategies and financial results. Considerable demand has been shown for high-speed data services offered by other carriers. The national wireless broadband mobile carriers have invested (and we expect will continue to invest) significant resources to develop and deliver these new data services to their customers. As market prices for wireless voice services continue to decline, if we are unable to offer such new data services or offer such services on competitive terms, we may not have sufficient revenue to offset the decline in wireless voice revenues. Similarly, as customers increasingly demand wireless broadband mobile data services as part of the core feature set of their wireless services, the failure to offer such services or offer them on a competitive basis with our competitors could reduce sales and increase churn. Currently, we offer certain limited wireless data services that are not as robust as those offered by some of our competitors and may never be. 37 Table of Contents While we anticipate that our 4G LTE network will have sufficient capacity to meet the anticipated needs of our customers, we have limited experience with our customers’ demands for high-speed data services, the number of customers for such services, or new services we plan to launch in the future. In order for our 4G LTE deployment to be successful, we will need to design and implement new data sales and marketing initiatives, including new services to support our deployment of 4G LTE. In addition, we have not and may not gain access to certain of the applications or proprietary data content available to national wireless broadband mobile operators. If we are unable in the future to successfully incorporate the most advanced wireless data services, including certain 4G LTE technologies, into our service offerings or gain access to popular applications and content, our customer additions and ARPU could decrease and our churn could increase. Studies suggest that, while the volume of mobile data users will increase exponentially, the profitability of such services will decline or evaporate as we may be unable to maintain or improve our ARPU or our margins. We could experience higher than anticipated usage of our 1xRTT and 4G LTE services that could result in performance of our 1xRTT or our 4G LTE services not meeting customer expectations. As a result, we may be required to spend additional capital to increase the capacity of our 1xRTT and 4G LTE networks or purchase additional spectrum or limit usage by our customers of 1xRTT and 4G LTE services. Since we have limited spectrum in some of our metropolitan areas, we may be unable to meet customer demand for service, which may lead to us having to limit service in those metropolitan areas, limit usage or applications useable by customers, or adopt tiered pricing service plans. If we are unable to meet the customer demand for our 1xRTT and 4G LTE data services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, we rely on third parties to provide us access to most data, music and video content, applications, and access to new handsets to deliver these advanced services. If we are unable to obtain access to such services, content, or applications, incorporate such services, content, or applications, into our service offerings, or purchase handsets, applications, content or services from third parties, at a reasonable cost and on a timely basis in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may be unable to acquire additional spectrum in the future at a reasonable cost. Because we primarily offer unlimited calling and data services for a flat rate, our customers tend, on average, to use our services more than the customers of other wireless broadband mobile carriers. We believe that the average minutes of use and data usage of our customers may continue to rise. We intend to meet this demand by utilizing spectrum-efficient state-of-the-art technologies, such as six-sector cell site technology, 4G LTE, EVRC-B, voice over 4G LTE, or VoLTE, or other 4G LTE handsets and intelligent antennas. Nevertheless, in the future we may need to acquire additional spectrum in order to maintain our quality of service, to meet increasing customer demands or to allow the deployment of these technologies. However, we cannot assure you that additional spectrum will be made available by the FCC, through auction or otherwise, on a timely basis, on terms and conditions or under service rules that we consider to be suitable for our commercial uses, or be compatible with existing spectrum, or that we will be able to acquire additional spectrum at a reasonable cost. In addition, the FCC may impose conditions on the use of new wireless broadband mobile spectrum, such as heightened build-out requirements or open access requirements, that may make it less attractive to, or less economical for, us to acquire such spectrum. If additional spectrum is unavailable on reasonable terms and conditions when needed, unavailable at a reasonable cost, or unavailable without conditions that impose significant costs or restrictions on us, we may not be able to continue to increase our customer base, meet the requirements of our customers’ usage of our services or to offer new services and as a result we could lose customers or revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Further, if we participate in a future FCC auction for additional spectrum, the FCC anti-collusion rules place certain restrictions on business communications and disclosures by participants in an FCC auction. These anti-collusion rules may restrict the normal conduct of our business and/or disclosures relating to an FCC auction, which could last three to six months or more. These restrictions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may undertake mergers, acquisitions or strategic transactions that could result in operating difficulties, dilution and distraction from our business. We may in the future expand the markets in which we operate or the services provided through the acquisition of selected spectrum or operating markets from other telecommunication service providers, the acquisition of additional spectrum from FCC auctions or auctions in other countries, the acquisition of other telecommunication 38 Table of Contents service providers or through other strategic transactions. Any such transactions can entail risk, may require a disproportionate amount of our management and financial resources, may divert management’s attention, and may create various operating difficulties and expenditures, among which may include: • uncertain revenues and expenses, including difficulty in achieving projected synergies, with the result that we may not realize the growth in revenues, anticipated cost structure, profitability, or return on investment that we expect; • difficulty integrating the acquired technologies, services, spectrum, products, operations and personnel of the acquired businesses while maintaining uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; • disruption of ongoing business; • impact on our cash and available credit lines for use in financing future growth and working capital needs; • obligations imposed on us by counterparties in such transactions that limit our ability to obtain additional financing, our ability to compete in geographic areas or specific lines of business, or other aspects of our operational flexibility; • increasing cost and complexity of assuring the implementation and maintenance of adequate internal control and disclosure controls and procedures, and of obtaining the reports and attestations required under the Exchange Act; • loss of or inability to attract and retain key personnel; • impairment of relationships with employees, customers or vendors; • difficulties in consolidating and preparing our financial statements due to poor accounting records, weak financial controls and, in some cases, procedures at acquired entities not based on U.S. GAAP; • inability to predict or anticipate market developments and capital commitments relating to the acquired company, business or technology; and • with respect to any spectrum acquisition in a foreign country, difficulties and expenditures associated with operating in a foreign jurisdiction. The anticipated benefit to us of any strategic transaction, acquisition or merger may never materialize. Future investments, acquisitions or dispositions, or similar arrangements could result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the reduction in our cash reserves, the incurrence of additional debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Any such transactions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Additionally, our expected growth and any acquisitions or business combinations will also require stringent control of costs, diligent management of our network infrastructure and our growth, increased capital requirements, increased costs associated with marketing activities, the attraction and retention of qualified management, technical and sales personnel and the training and management of new personnel, and the design and implementation of financial and management controls. Our growth will, and any acquisitions or business combinations may, challenge the capacity and abilities of existing employees and future employees at all levels of our business and the controls and systems we have implemented. Failure to successfully manage our growth and development or any acquisitions or business combinations could increase our costs and adversely affect our level of service, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Business, political, regulatory and economic factors may significantly affect our operations, the manner in which we conduct our business and slow our rate of growth. In the recent past, the United States economy has deteriorated significantly, unemployment rates have increased and such conditions may continue for the foreseeable future. Our business is being and could be further affected by such economic conditions, unemployment rates, as well as consumer spending, in the areas in which we operate, 39 Table of Contents including Michigan. These factors are outside of our control. If economic conditions and unemployment rates continue to deteriorate, or remain depressed, our existing and future customer base may be disproportionately and adversely affected due to the generally lower per capita income of our customer base (versus the national facility-based wireless broadband mobile carriers). In addition, a number of our customers work in industries which may be disproportionately affected by an economic slowdown or recession, including the auto industry. More generally, adverse changes in the economy are likely to negatively affect our customers’ ability to pay for existing services and to decrease their interest in purchasing new services. These same economic conditions may negatively impact our third-party service providers who experience cash flow problems, liquidity concerns or are unable to obtain or refinance credit such that they may no longer be able to operate. The resulting impact of such economic conditions on our customers, on consumer and discretionary spending and on our product and service providers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products, services and on our business, financial condition and operating results. The FCC, in March 2010, announced its National Broadband Plan. In it, the FCC has indicated that it plans to require all 700 MHz licensees to provide roaming and priority access to public safety first responders. This could cause us to have to provide service to public safety users and to deny service to our own customers at times of national emergency. This could cause our customers using our 700 MHz spectrum to leave our service. Additionally, there have been significant changes in the political climate and in the composition of the FCC as a result of the outcome of recent state elections and the Presidential election in the United States. Several recent actions indicate that the FCC will be proactive in the regulation of wireless services, and we cannot predict with any certainty the nature and extent of the changes in federal, state and local laws, regulations and policy we will face, or the effect of such elections on any pending legislation. For example, changes in the political climate could affect the extent to which further consolidation of wireless carriers will be approved by the government and such changes could reduce our strategic merger and acquisition options. Further, regulatory requirements, such as net neutrality, could impose costs on us or limit our ability to provide our services in a cost effective or profitable way. Any changes in regulation, new policy initiatives, increased taxes or any other changes in state or federal law may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are exposed to counterparty risk in our senior secured credit facility and related interest rate protection agreements. We have entered into interest rate protection agreements to manage the Company’s interest rate risk exposure by fixing a portion of the interest expense we pay under our senior secured credit facility; however, there can be no assurance that these will be effective or that we will be able to continue to enter into these agreements at a reasonable cost. There has been considerable turmoil in the world economy and banking markets, which could affect whether the counterparties to such interest rate protection agreements are able to honor their agreements. If the counterparties fail to honor their commitments, we could experience higher interest rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The investment of our substantial cash balances are subject to risk. We can and have historically invested our substantial cash balances in, among other things, securities issued and fully guaranteed by the United States or any state, highly rated commercial paper and auction rate securities, money market funds meeting certain criteria, and demand deposits. We are exposed to risks resulting from deterioration in the financial condition of financial institutions holding our cash deposits, decisions of the investment managers of the money market funds and defaults in securities underlying the funds. These investments are subject to credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risk. Such risks may result in a loss of liquidity, substantial impairment to our investments, realization of substantial future losses, or a complete loss of the investment in the long-term, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and liquidity. We currently have an exclusive arrangement with our billing services vendor. Amdocs Software Systems Limited and Amdocs, Inc., or Amdocs, subject to certain exclusions, is our exclusive vendor for billing services in North America. If Amdocs does not perform its obligations under the agreement, or ceases to continue to develop, or substantially delays development of, new features or billing services, or ceases to support its existing billing systems, we may be unable to secure alternative billing services from another provider or providers in a timely manner, for a reasonable cost or otherwise, which could cause us, among other things, not to be able to bill our customers, provide customer care, grow our business, report financial results, or manage our business and we may have increased churn, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 40 Table of Contents We may be unable to enforce or protect our intellectual property and intellectual property rights. We own, license, develop and use intellectual property, including trade secrets, in our business. While we engage in measures to protect our intellectual property, such measures offer limited protection and may not prevent the misappropriation of our information or our proprietary rights. Further, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights may require legal action, which may be costly and may not be successful, even if our rights are misappropriated or infringed. We cannot assure you that any patent, trademark or service mark, whether pending or future, or any application for such will be granted or that any existing patent, trademark or service mark will not be infringed, challenged or invalidated or that any such registration will adequately protect our brand, products or image. If any of our intellectual property rights are infringed, challenged or invalidated, the costs associated with the protection and attempted enforcement of our rights and the potential loss of such rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We and our suppliers may be subject to claims of infringement. The technologies used in the telecommunications industry are protected by a wide array of patents and other intellectual property rights. As a result, third parties may assert infringement and misappropriation claims against us or our suppliers from time to time based on our or their general business operations, the equipment, software or services we or they use or provide, or the specific operation of our wireless networks or service. Our suppliers may be subject to infringement or misappropriation claims that if successful could preclude the supplier from supplying us with the products, software, applications, content and services we require to run our business or offer our services, require the supplier to change the products, software, applications, content and services they provide to us in a way which could have a material adverse effect on us, or cause the supplier to increase the charges for their products, software, applications, content and services to us. We also cannot guarantee that we will be fully protected against all losses associated with an infringement or misappropriation claim involving our manufacturers, licensors and suppliers who provide us with the equipment, software, applications, content, and technology that we use in our business. In addition, our suppliers may refuse to, or may be unable to, pay any damages or honor their defense and indemnification obligations to us, which may result in us having to bear such losses. We may also have to buy equipment, software, applications, content and services from other third party suppliers or pay royalties to the holders of intellectual property rights. Moreover, we may be subject to claims that products, software, applications, content and services provided by different vendors which we combine with products, software, applications, content or with services provided by other vendors or with our own products, software, applications, content and services in order to offer products, software, applications, content and services to our customers are infringing on or misappropriating the rights of others, and we may not have any indemnification protection from our vendors for these claims. Further, we have been, and in the future may be, subject to claims that certain business processes we use, services we provide, software, applications or content we license, or products we create may infringe on or misappropriate the rights of third parties, and we may have no indemnification rights from any of our vendors or suppliers. Whether or not an infringement or misappropriation claim is valid or successful, it could adversely affect our business by diverting management’s attention, involve us in costly and time-consuming litigation, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all), require us to pay royalties for prior periods, require us or our suppliers to redesign our or their business operations, processes, systems, software, applications, services or products to avoid claims of infringement or misappropriation, preclude our ability to offer certain products, software, applications, content, and services at all, or require us to purchase products, software, applications, content, and services from different vendors or not sell certain products, software, applications, content, or services. If a claim is found to be valid or if we or our suppliers cannot successfully negotiate a required royalty or license agreement, we could be forced to pay substantial damages, including potentially treble damages, and we could be subject to an injunction that could disrupt our business, prevent us from offering some or all of our products, content, software, applications or services and cause us to incur losses of customers or revenues, any or all of which could be material and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 41 Table of Contents Substantially all of our CDMA network infrastructure equipment is manufactured or provided by a single infrastructure vendor. Substantially all of our broadband PCS and AWS, CDMA network infrastructure equipment is manufactured or provided by Alcatel Lucent. We have entered into an agreement with Alcatel Lucent to provide us with PCS and AWS CDMA system products and services, including without limitation, wireless base stations, switches, power, cable and transmission equipment and services. The agreement does not cover any other non-AWS or non-PCS spectrum we may acquire in the future, including our spectrum in the 700 MHz band or other technologies, such as 4G LTE. A substantial portion of the equipment manufactured or provided by Alcatel Lucent is proprietary, which means that equipment and software from other manufacturers may not work with Alcatel Lucent’s equipment and software, or may require the expenditure of additional capital, which may be material. The communications equipment market has been subject to recent economic turmoil. In addition, we have chosen to purchase our 4G LTE infrastructure from another vendor. Further, our current agreement with Alcatel Lucent expires December 2011, but we have the right to renew the agreement for three additional one year terms. As a result, Alcatel-Lucent may not develop new products or services necessary to us or offer the same level of support as it has done in the past. If Alcatel Lucent ceases to develop, or substantially delays development of, new products, or ceases to support existing CDMA equipment and software, or experiences problems which prevent Alcatel Lucent from performing its obligations under the agreement, we may be required to spend significant amounts of money to replace such CDMA equipment and software, may not be able to offer new products or services, and may not be able to compete effectively in our markets. If we fail to continue purchasing our PCS and AWS CDMA products exclusively from Alcatel Lucent, we may have to pay certain liquidated damages based on the difference in prices between exclusive and non-exclusive prices, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Substantially all of our 4G LTE infrastructure equipment and initial dual mode CDMA/LTE handsets are manufactured or provided by one vendor. We are dependent on third-party providers to manufacture, design and develop compatible systems and devices that will operate on our network. We currently have entered into a non-exclusive agreement to purchase and license most of our 4G LTE system products, licensed materials and services from a single network infrastructure provider. In addition, we currently have executed a non-exclusive agreement with a single handset vendor for the delivery of a dual mode CDMA/4G LTE handset, which was used in the initial launch of our 4G LTE service. As 4G LTE is new, complex technology with little current development, we cannot assure you that these vendors will be successful in their continuing development efforts. In the event that any of our vendors fails to deliver or is delayed in delivering the 4G LTE products, software and services we have contracted to purchase from it, we may be delayed in launching additional 4G LTE services or markets. In addition, if our 4G LTE network infrastructure providers ceases to develop, substantially delays the development of, new 4G LTE products or ceases to support existing 4G LTE equipment and software, or it fails to perform under the agreement, we may be required to spend significant amounts of money to replace such equipment and software, may not be able to offer new products and services, may be delayed in offering additional 4G LTE services, and may not be able to compete effectively in our markets. If any of the foregoing risks occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We use a single provider for most of our domestic and international long distance services. We currently use a single provider for most of the domestic and international long distance services that we provide to our customers under a long-term contract. This arrangement requires us to send a significant portion of our domestic and international long distance traffic to the provider for transmission and termination. If the provider experiences service outages or other problems affecting its services, our customers may have difficulty completing domestic and international calls. As all of our service plans include domestic long distance services, any such disruption could have a significant effect on our customers which may cause them to become dissatisfied with our service. In addition, one of our services also includes international long distance and a disruption in that service or the cessation of service to destinations which our customers want to call, could cause our customers to leave our service. If substantial numbers of customers are dissatisfied or leave our service it could result in higher churn which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 42 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to provide products, software, applications and services that are integral to our business. Sophisticated financial, management, information, network management, and billing systems are vital to our business. We currently rely on internal systems and third-party vendors to develop and to provide all of these systems. We have entered into agreements with third-party suppliers to provide products, software, applications, and services that are integral to our business, such as customer care, product distribution, content development, financial reporting, network management, network infrastructure equipment and services and billing and payment processing. We purchase a substantial portion of the products, software and services from only a few major suppliers and we generally rely on one or two key vendors in each area. Some of these agreements may be terminated upon relatively short notice. In addition, our plans for developing and implementing our financial information and billing systems rely to some extent on the design, development and delivery of products, software, applications, and services by third-party vendors. Our right to use these systems is dependent on agreements with third-party vendors and these systems may not perform as anticipated. If our suppliers terminate their agreements with us, experience interruptions or other problems delivering quality products, software, applications or services to us on a timely basis or at all, or enter bankruptcy, it may cause us to have difficulty providing services to or billing our customers, developing, delivering, and deploying new products (including sufficient volume and types) and services and/or upgrading, maintaining, improving our networks, or generating accurate or timely financial reports and information. If alternative suppliers and vendors become necessary, we may not be able to obtain satisfactory and timely replacement services on economically attractive terms, or at all. The loss, termination or expiration of these agreements or our inability to renew them at all or on favorable terms or negotiate agreements with other providers at comparable rates could harm our business. Our reliance on others to provide essential products, software, applications, and services on our behalf also gives us less control over the efficiency, timeliness and quality of these products, software and services. The success of our business is dependent on the development of products compatible with the services deployed by us. We do not develop or manufacture any products and are dependent on the development of products, content, applications and services by third parties for the services and technology we have deployed and provide on our spectrum. We have elected to deploy 4G LTE on our AWS and PCS spectrum. Several of our competitors have publicly indicated that they plan to deploy 4G LTE on 700 MHz spectrum. There can be no assurance that other licensees, including the national wireless broadband mobile carriers, will not delay or ultimately not deploy 4G LTE on AWS and PCS spectrum. If other wireless broadband mobile licensees, including the large national wireless broadband mobile carriers, do not deploy 4G LTE on AWS and PCS, we may have to pay higher prices for the products that we sell to our subscribers due to the limited number of users, we may not have products available to us at all, or such products may be limited in nature and not have the features and functions our customers expect or demand. In addition, such limitation could result in less technological development on network equipment that we use to offer 4G LTE services, delays in any available technological developments and we could be forced to pay higher prices for any such technological development. In addition, we are dependent on the national wireless broadband carriers continuing to deploy handsets and handset operating systems to which we have access. If the national wireless broadband carriers choose to deploy proprietary handsets or proprietary handset operating systems in lieu of, or substantially in lieu of, handsets and handset operating systems to which we have access, we could experience higher prices for handsets and development of applications for the handsets and handset operating systems we deploy may lag the development on other handsets and handset operating systems. Further any handsets and handset operating systems that we deploy may lag behind the development of other handsets and handset operating systems with which we compete, or may not be developed at all. If we are unable to secure the necessary products at prices which will allow us to be competitive with other carriers of 4G LTE services, we may not be able to meet our customer expectations, demands, or needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. We rely heavily on indirect distribution channels. Unlike many of our competitors that rely upon “big box” retailers and exclusive partners, our business model utilizes and relies upon indirect distribution outlets including a range of local, regional and national mass-market dealers and retailers allowing us to reach the largest number of potential customers in our metropolitan areas at a relatively low cost. Approximately 90% of the sales of our handsets and services occur through these indirect distribution channels. Many of our dealers own and operate more than one location and may operate in more than one of our metropolitan areas. Because these third party dealers are the primary contact between us and our customers in many instances, including accepting payment for our services on our behalf, they play an important role in our ability to grow our business and in customer retention. With the recent deterioration of the United States economy, employment rates, and the credit markets, which may continue for the foreseeable future, some of our dealers and vendors have experienced, and may in the future, experience problems and may be unable to continue their operations or secure funds for their continued operations or to grow their operations. Further, due to the present 43 Table of Contents economic conditions, we may be unable to find participants in our local markets that would qualify or be able to open a location to replace closed operations. Moreover, since we rely on such third parties to provide some of our services, any bankruptcy, termination, switch or disruption in service by such third parties or diminution in the number of such third parties could be costly and affect operating efficiencies and our ability to attract and retain customers which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Additionally, as more of our competitors use third party dealers to market and sell their products and services, competition for dealers is intense and larger competitors are able to offer higher commissions and other benefits. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining dealers and any inability to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We and our indirect dealers face direct competition with some of our other indirect distribution agents and dealers. Many of our indirect distribution outlets, primarily local dealers, are not our exclusive dealers, which means that these dealers may sell other third party products and services in direct competition with us and other indirect dealers in the same location. Additionally, we strive to ensure that our customers have access to a wide variety of products and services within their geographic area, which means some of our dealers may be located within close proximity to one another and compete for the same customer base. As a result of the direct competition we encounter in some of our dealer locations and the potential for competition among our local dealers, we may experience reduced sales in certain geographic areas, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our agreements with our indirect distribution agents may be terminated on relatively short notice. We have agreements with our third party indirect distribution agents to market and sell our products and services. These agreements can be terminated by us or by such indirect distribution agents on relatively short notice. Our competitors are focused on increasing their distribution, and the relatively short termination period may allow our competitors to move our indirect distribution agents to their products and services. In addition, if the economy deteriorates or does not further improve, some of these indirect distribution agents may cease to operate. If we lose our indirect distribution, we may have difficulty finding new companies to distribute our products and services, or we may be forced to increase the amount of payments we make to our indirect distribution agents. If any of these occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operational results. We utilize a limited number of cell site and DAS providers. We currently use, and plan to continue to use, DAS systems in lieu of traditional cell sites to provide service to certain critical portions of certain metropolitan areas. In order to construct DAS systems, the DAS provider will be required to obtain necessary authority from the relevant state and local regulatory authorities and to secure certain agreements, such as right of way agreements, in order to construct or operate the DAS systems. In addition, the DAS system provider may be required to construct a transport network as part of their construction of the DAS systems. These DAS systems may be leased and/or licensed from third party suppliers. We utilize a limited number of DAS system providers. Some of the DAS system providers we are using have not previously constructed or been authorized to construct DAS systems in certain of the areas we plan to build DAS systems so there may be unforeseen obstacles and delays in constructing the DAS systems in those areas. DAS systems also pose particular compliance challenges with regard to any regulatory requirements that may be adopted by the FCC, such as back up power requirements, and may be susceptible to certain weather conditions, such as flooding or power outages. If any of these risks occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to comply with applicable laws, could require us to spend significant amounts of additional capital, could delay or affect our ability to offer our services, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If our master agreement with one of our cell site or DAS providers were to terminate, or if the cell site or DAS system providers were to experience severe financial difficulties or file for bankruptcy, or if one of these cell site or DAS system providers were unable to support our use of its cell sites or DAS systems, we would have to find new sites or rebuild the affected portion of our network. In addition, the concentration of our cell site leases and DAS systems with a limited number of cell site and DAS system providers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results if we are unable to renew our expiring leases or DAS system agreements with these companies either on terms comparable to those we have today or at all. In addition, the tower industry has continued to consolidate. If any of the companies from which we lease towers or DAS systems were to consolidate 44 Table of Contents with other cell site or DAS systems companies, they may be unable to honor obligations to us or have the ability to raise prices, which could materially affect our profitability. If a material number of cell sites or DAS systems were no longer available for our use, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are increasingly focused on providing nationwide service, but we may be unable to obtain the roaming and other services we need from other carriers at rates that allow us to provide such nationwide service and still remain competitive. The market for unlimited paid-in-advance services increasingly requires that carriers provide nationwide coverage for such unlimited paid-in-advance services. In response, our service plans include nationwide services to our customers, which is a small percentage of the total United States population. Many of our competitors have national networks with substantially larger footprints than we have covering substantially all of the United States population and they have international roaming arrangements to more countries, all of which enable them to offer automatic roaming, long distance telephone and 3G and, in the future, 4G LTE services to their subscribers at a lower cost than we can offer and allow them to sustain unlimited fixed-rate local, and nationwide roaming plans on their existing networks over a larger area than we can sustain on an economic basis. We provide a significant portion of our nationwide services utilizing roaming agreements with other third party carriers, which allows our customers to roam on those carriers’ networks to provide voice (and some data) services to areas outside our service areas and to improve coverage within select areas of our footprint. We have entered into agreements with other third party carriers who provide such roaming services to us and who carry long distance calls made by our subscribers. These roaming agreements, however, do not cover all geographic areas where our customers may seek service when they travel, and they generally cover voice but may not cover data services or other advanced service features. These agreements are subject to renewal and termination rights or the rates may be increase substantially, which may require us to pay significant amounts of money for roaming service and we may be unable to provide nationwide coverage to our customers. Additionally, our aggregate roaming costs are highly susceptible to the geographic calling patterns of our customers. As our service plans do not include any incremental roaming charges, as we add customers our roaming expenses will increase. As a result of increasing roaming rates or roaming minutes used by our customers, our consolidated financial results could be negatively impacted. If we are unable to meet our customers’ expectations for nationwide coverage for the services they want, it could reduce the number of new customers we add to our services and may increase our churn. We also may be unable to provide roaming for certain services, such as 4G LTE data, at all or the rates may not be acceptable to our customers. If our customers demand roaming services, such as 4G LTE roaming, and we are unable to provide such roaming at all or at cost effective rates, we could have increased churn, decreased growth, and lower revenue and profits. Further, if the rates we pay for roaming increase, it could reduce the profits we make on our services, or require us to cease providing such services on an unlimited basis. A termination of existing roaming agreements or a significant increase in the prices we pay for roaming could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Further, as the wireless industry has consolidated, which may continue in the future, we may have increased difficulty entering into new roaming agreements with other technically compatible carriers offering comparable quality of service or replacing our existing roaming agreements. In addition, we believe the rates we are charged by certain carriers in some instances are higher than the rates these carriers charge to other roaming partners that may have large call volumes or certain affiliations. Future regulatory changes may also affect our ability to enter into new or maintain existing roaming agreements on competitive terms. Our ability to replicate other carriers’ roaming service offerings at rates that will make us, or allow us to be, competitive is uncertain at this time. The FCC recently clarified that broadband commercial mobile radio service, or CMRS, providers must offer automatic roaming voice and short message service, or SMS, service, both in and out of a requesting carrier’s market, on just, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms, but found that a CMRS provider is not required to offer roaming services if the request is not reasonable. The FCC will presume in the first instance that a request for automatic roaming is reasonable if the requesting carrier provides technologically compatible services. However, in assessing whether a denial is reasonable, the FCC will consider the request based on a totality of the circumstances and may use a number of factors, including the extent of the requesting carrier’s build-out where it holds spectrum, and whether alternative roaming partners are available, to determine whether a particular roaming request can be denied. The FCC also has not extended full roaming rights to roaming services that are classified as information services (such as high-speed wireless Internet access services), or for roaming services that 45 Table of Contents are not classified as CMRS (such as non-interconnected services). If we are unable to enter into or maintain roaming agreements for roaming services that our customers desire at reasonable rates, including in areas where we have licenses or lease spectrum but have not constructed facilities, we may be unable to compete effectively and attract and retain customers, and we may lose revenues. We also may be unable to continue to receive roaming services in areas in which we hold licenses or lease spectrum after the expiration or termination of our existing roaming agreements. We also may be obligated to allow customers of other technically compatible carriers to roam automatically on our systems, which may enhance their ability to compete with us. If these risks occur, they may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Further, our roaming agreements and services may be with certain of our competitors and may create actual or potential conflicts of interest, and may cause the parties to make decisions or take actions that do not reflect the other’s best interests. None of these agreements restricts us from entering into similar arrangements with other parties, but certain rights could be lost or agreements terminated if we enter into a similar relationship. We may incur higher than anticipated intercarrier compensation costs. When our customers use our service to call customers of other carriers, in certain circumstances we are required under the current intercarrier compensation scheme to pay the carrier that serves the called party, and any intermediary or transit carrier, for the use of their networks. However, as a wireless carrier we are not entitled to receive access payments from interexchange carriers who route calls for termination on our network. A longstanding FCC rulemaking proceeding is examining whether a unified intercarrier compensation regime should be established for all traffic exchanged between all carriers, including CMRS carriers such as us. New intercarrier compensation rules, if adopted, may result in increases in the charges we are required to pay other carriers for terminating calls or transiting calls over their networks, increase the costs of, or make it more difficult to negotiate, new agreements with carriers, and decrease the amount of revenue we receive for terminating calls from other carriers on our network. New rules also may be subject to a transition period or policies that are not advantageous to wireless carriers. We resell third party international interexchange services in connection with certain of our international interexchange services. The charges for these services may be subject to change by the terminating or interconnecting carrier, or by the regulatory body or agency having jurisdiction in the applicable foreign country. In the event that the charges change, the terminating or interconnecting carrier may attempt to assess such charges retroactively on us or our third party international interexchange carrier, which charges may be substantial, or we may cease providing service to such foreign destination, which may cause prospective customers to not subscribe to our service or current customers to terminate their service from us. If we are assessed additional charges on a retroactive basis, the use of our services results in significant intercarrier costs, we are unable or unwilling to offer services to certain foreign destinations, or prospective customers do not subscribe to our service or current customers terminate service with us, it could limit our ability to grow our customer base which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Some carriers who terminate calls originated by our customers have sought, and others may seek, to impose termination charges on us that we consider to be unreasonably high and have threatened to pursue, or have initiated or may initiate, claims against us to recover these charges. The outcome of these claims is uncertain. The FCC issued a decision indicating that it intends to defer to state commissions to set the termination rates that wireless carriers must pay to competitive local exchange carriers, or CLECs. We have appealed this decision, but the timing and outcome of the appeal cannot be predicted with certainty. In the meantime, we already have been drawn into multiple state commission proceedings in which CLECs are seeking approval of wireless termination rates that we consider to be excessive. A determination that we are liable for additional or excessive terminating compensation payments could subject us to additional claims by other carriers. Further, legal and business considerations may inhibit our ability or willingness to block traffic to telecommunication carriers who demand unreasonable payments. In addition, certain transit carriers have taken the position that they can charge “market” rates for transit services, which rates may in some instances be significantly higher than our current rates or the rates we are willing to pay. We may be obligated to pay these higher rates and/or purchase services from others, engage in direct connection, or pay terminating compensation charges in the absence of negotiated agreements, which may result in higher costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. 46 Table of Contents A portion of our third-party customer service and technical support providers and a portion of our revenue are derived from geographic areas susceptible to natural and other disasters. Our focus on major metropolitan areas and our use of third party suppliers and service providers, some of which are located in developing nations, such as Mexico, Panama, Antigua and the Philippines, may make our products and services more susceptible to certain events, including political upheavals, war, terrorist attacks, strikes, natural disasters, and pandemics, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The outsourcing of certain customer and technical support lowers our operating costs and adds flexibility, but also adds risk as we rely on these third-party service providers working directly on our behalf with our customers. Customers may react negatively to or have certain perceptions about our use of or their receiving direct customer and technical support from outside the U.S., especially with the current legislative scrutiny and focus on jobs being sent overseas and the security of personal information being sent overseas. In addition, a number of our markets are located in states which have a history of natural disasters that may adversely affect our operations in those states such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, snowstorms, ice storms, or flooding. These national disasters could cause us to have to stop or limit selling and servicing our customers and products, which could increase our churn, reduce our a sales, and negatively affect our revenues. These events also may cause our networks to cease operating for a substantial period of time while we reconstruct or repair them and our competitors may be less affected than we are. Some network outages give rise to regulatory reporting obligations, which subject us to additional burdens and risks, and if we fail to meet such obligations, it could result in fines, forfeitures, consent decrees, corporate monitors or other adverse actions. We cannot provide any assurance that the business interruption insurance and property insurance we have will cover all losses we may experience as a result of such events, that the insurance carrier will be solvent, that rates will remain commercially reasonable that the insurance carrier will not drop us, or that the insurance carrier will pay all claims made by us. If we experience any of these events, we may lose revenue, customers, and experience increased expenses, we may have difficulty attracting new customers in the future, and may have difficulty finding new suppliers and vendors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel. Our business is managed by a small number of key executive officers, including our chief executive officer, Roger Linquist. None of our managing key executives has an employment contract, so any such executive officers may leave at any time subject to forfeiture of any unpaid performance awards and any unvested options or restricted stock. In addition, at this time, the exercise price of a substantial portion of the unvested options of our key executive officers is above, and in some cases significantly above, the current trading prices of our common stock. We believe that our future success depends in substantial part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly knowledgeable, qualified executive, technical and management personnel. We believe that competition for highly qualified management, technical and sales personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will retain our key management, technical and sales employees, that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining other highly qualified management, technical and sales personnel in the future sufficient to support our continued growth, or that we will be successful in replacing any of our key management, technical and sales personnel that may retire or cease to be employed by us. We have experienced occasional difficulties in recruiting qualified personnel and there can be no assurance that we will not experience such difficulties in the future. The departure or retirement of, or our inability to attract or retain, highly qualified executive, technical and management personnel, including the chief executive officer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Recent political changes could have an adverse effect on our relationship with our workforce. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement or represented by an employee union. With the changes in the party affiliation of the President of the United States and the changes in composition of Federal and state legislatures, legislation may be enacted which could impose additional requirements on us or make it easier for union organizing activities. If our employees become represented by an employee union, it may make it more difficult for us to manage our business and to attract and retain new employees and may increase our cost of doing business. Having our employees become represented by an employee union or having additional requirements related to our employees imposed on us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 47 Table of Contents We are subject to numerous surcharges and fees from federal, state and local governments, and the applicability and the amount of these fees is subject to great uncertainty. Telecommunications providers pay a variety of surcharges and fees on their gross revenues from interstate and intrastate services, including federal Universal Service Fund, or USF, fees and common carrier regulatory fees. Some of these fees are based on the division of our services between interstate services and intrastate services, including the divisions associated with the federal USF fees, which is a matter of interpretation and, in the future, may be contested by the FCC or state authorities. The FCC also may change in the future the basis on which federal USF fees are charged and may impose recurring spectrum usage or licensing fees. Many states also apply transaction-based taxes to sales of our products and services and to our purchases of telecommunications services from various carriers. In addition, state regulators and local governments have imposed and may in the future impose various surcharges, taxes and fees on our services. The applicability of these surcharges and fees to our services is uncertain in many cases and jurisdictions may contest whether we have assessed and remitted those monies correctly. Periodically state and federal regulators may increase or change the surcharges and fees we currently pay. We remit all applicable federal, state and local fees, costs and expenses as required, but we do not recover in all instances these regulatory and compliance fees, costs and expenses directly from our customers. If we were to pass on these costs to our customers in the future, it may affect our ability to retain and attract new customers. Because of fiscal budget deficits at many state and local jurisdictions, state and local municipalities may increase taxes and regulatory fees on our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Concerns about whether wireless telephones pose health and safety risks may lead to the adoption of new regulations or lawsuits that could decrease demand for our services. Media reports and some studies have given rise to claims that radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets may be linked to various health concerns, including cancer, or interfere with various electronic medical devices, including air bags, hearing aids and pacemakers. Additional studies have been undertaken to determine whether the claims based on these reports and studies are accurate. In addition, there have been claims made and lawsuits filed that allege that the rechargeable batteries in phones may explode or catch on fire. Further lawsuits have also been filed against various participants in the wireless industry alleging various adverse health consequences as a result of wireless phone usage. While many of these lawsuits have been dismissed on various grounds, including a lack of scientific evidence linking wireless handsets with such adverse health consequences, future lawsuits could be filed based on new evidence or in different jurisdictions. If any lawsuits are filed against us, it could be costly to defend, divert management’s attention from the business, and could subject us to substantial liability. If any such suits do succeed, or if plaintiffs are successful in negotiating settlements, it is likely additional suits would follow. In addition to health concerns, safety concerns have been raised with respect to the use of wireless handsets, including texting, while driving. Certain states and municipalities in which we provide service or plan to provide service have passed or proposed laws prohibiting or restricting the use of wireless phones while driving, prohibiting texting while driving, limiting use of wireless devices while driving by persons under the age of 18, or requiring the use of wireless headsets, and other states and municipalities may do so in the future. If consumers’ health concerns over radio frequency emissions increase or safety concerns increase, consumers may be discouraged from using wireless handsets or services, regulators may impose restrictions or increased requirements on the location and operation of cell sites, the use or design of wireless telephones, may restrict the use of wireless handsets while driving, may require that all wireless telephones include an earpiece that would enable the use of wireless telephones without holding them against the user’s head and may give rise to additional lawsuits. Such legislation or regulation could increase the cost of our wireless handsets, reduce demand for our products and services, increase other operating expenses, or could expose wireless providers to further litigation, including litigation relating to accidents, deaths or serious bodily injury allegedly incurred as a result of wireless telephone use, which, even if not successful, may be costly to defend and could divert management’s attention from our business, and could subject us to significant liability. In addition, compliance with such new requirements, and the associated costs, could adversely affect our business. The actual or perceived risk of radio frequency emissions could adversely affect us through a reduction in customers or a reduction in the availability of financing in the future. If any of these risks occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 48 Table of Contents System failures, security breaches and the unauthorized use of or interference with our network could cause delays or interruptions of service, increase our cost of operations, and result in harm to our business reputation, which could cause us to lose customers. To be successful, we must provide our customers reliable, trustworthy service. We rely upon our networks and the networks of other providers to provide and support all of our services. Some of the risks to our networks and infrastructure, which may prevent us from providing reliable service, include: • physical damage to outside plant facilities; • power surges or outages; • equipment failure; • vendor or supplier failures or delays; • software defects; • viruses, malware, worms, Trojan horses, unsolicited mass advertising, denial of service and other malicious or abusive attacks by hackers; • fraud, including customer credit card fraud, subscription or dealer fraud; • unauthorized use of our or our provider’s networks; • human error; • disruptions beyond our control, including disruptions caused by criminal or terrorist activities, theft, natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, or fire; and • failures in operational support systems. Our network security, processes and strategies are designed to protect and prevent unauthorized access to our network and data on our network. The techniques and tools used to sabotage or gain unauthorized access to networks changes frequently and we may not be able to anticipate or implement adequate prevention measures timely. Network disruptions, whether from natural causes or manmade, may cause interruptions in service, degradation of service, excessive call volumes to call centers, damage to our or our customer’s equipment or reduced capacity for customers, all of which could cause us to lose customers and incur expenses. Some portions of our network are not fully redundant and our disaster relief plans may not be adequate or timely. The resulting interruption or failure to provide our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Further, our administrative and capital costs associated with detecting, monitoring and reducing the incidence of fraud, or the costs to replace or repair the network or facilities (or portions thereof), may be substantial, thus causing our costs to provide service to increase. Fraudulent use of our network may also impact interconnection and long distance costs, capacity costs, roaming costs, administrative costs, fraud prevention costs and payments to other carriers for such fraud. We believe we have instituted safeguards to protect, detect and control such fraud; however, if such safeguards are not successful, such fraud or increased costs could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and impair our service resulting in higher churn as our competitors systems may not experience similar problems. Additionally, our physical facilities and information systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, theft, attacks by hackers, or similar disruptive problems. If hackers gain improper access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete, misappropriate or modify confidential personal information concerning our subscribers. Due to the evolving techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to our systems, we may not be able to implement adequate preventive measures timely or prevent such unauthorized access. In addition, misuse of our customer information could result in harm to our customers and legal actions against us and to additional harm perpetrated by third parties who are given access to the consumer data. The actual or perceived failure to our network security could damage our reputation and public perception of our ability to provide a secure service, which could adversely affect our ability to retain customers, expose us to significant liability, sanctions, fines and litigation and have a resulting material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 49 Table of Contents Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters Our ability to provide service to our customers and generate revenues could be harmed by adverse regulatory action. Our FCC licenses are major assets that we use to provide our services. Our FCC licenses are subject to revocation and we may be subject to fines, forfeitures, penalties or other sanctions, including the imposition of mandatory reporting requirements, license conditions, corporate monitors, forfeiture of existing licenses, and limitations on our ability to participate in future FCC auctions, if the FCC were to find that we are not in compliance with its rules or the requirements of the Communications Act. Many of our licenses are subject to interim or final construction requirements and there is no guarantee that the FCC will find our construction, or the construction of prior licensees, sufficient to meet the applicable construction requirement. If the FCC finds that our construction, or the construction of prior licensees, is insufficient, the FCC could, among other things, find that we are not a qualified licensee and revoke any or all of our licenses and impose other penalties and sanctions. In addition, a failure to comply with applicable license conditions or regulatory requirements could result in revocation or termination of our licenses, in the loss of rights to serve unbuilt areas and/or fines and forfeitures. We have had inquiries from regulatory agencies regarding our compliance with regulatory requirements and we may in the future receive additional inquiries. We have responded, are in the process of responding, or will respond to such inquiries. We cannot give any assurance that the FCC will agree with our compliance efforts or that the FCC will not impose fines, fees, or forfeitures, seek a consent decree, or take other adverse action against us. We must renew our FCC licenses periodically. Renewal applications are subject to FCC review and public comment to ensure that licensees meet their licensing requirements and comply with other applicable FCC requirements, rules and regulations. For all PCS, AWS and 700 MHz licenses, the FCC also requires that a licensee provide substantial service in order to receive a renewal expectancy. There is no guarantee that the FCC will find our completed system construction sufficient to meet the build out or renewal requirement. Additionally, while incumbent licensees enjoy a certain renewal expectancy if they provide substantial service, the substantial service standard is not well articulated and there is no guarantee that the FCC will conclude that we are providing substantial service, that we are entitled to a renewal expectancy, or will renew all or any of our licenses, without the imposition of adverse conditions. The FCC recently released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking to create consistent requirements for renewal of licenses, consistent consequences for discontinuance of service, and to clarify certain construction obligations. The proposed changes to the existing renewal and discontinuance of service requirements may be applied retroactively to existing licenses that will be renewed in the future. If the changed requirements are applied retroactively to our existing licenses, the FCC may determine that our, or the construction undertaken by prior licensees, or the actions taken by us, or the prior licensees, relating to the buildout or discontinuance of service does not satisfy such changed requirements and determine not to renew our licenses. If we fail to file for renewal of any particular license at the appropriate time, or fail to meet any regulatory requirements for renewal, including construction and substantial service requirements, we could be denied a license renewal or be subject to a competing application. The FCC also may impose additional regulatory requirements or conditions on our licenses or our business and may impose a substantial renewal fee to allow a licensee to continue to use a particular spectrum. Such additional regulatory requirements, fees or conditions could increase the cost of doing business, could cause disruption to existing networks, and could require us to make substantial investments. Any loss or impairment of any of these licenses, failure to renew, fines and forfeitures, the imposition of conditions, or other actions by the FCC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may be unable to obtain necessary governmental authorizations and permits on reasonable terms and conditions. Our ability to operate our business is dependent on, among other things, our ability to obtain governmental authorizations and permits in the planning, construction and operation of our networks. Obtaining governmental authorizations and permits can be very time sensitive and require compliance with administrative and procedural rules. To remain competitive, we must obtain such authorizations and permits on a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and on acceptable terms and conditions. If we cannot obtain the necessary governmental authorizations and permits at all or on reasonable terms and conditions, we may incur substantial costs associated with finding an alternate, viable resolution, relocating sites and infrastructure, writing off cost and expenses associated with sites we are unable to use, and we may experience a delay or impairment in the provisioning of our services which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 50 Table of Contents We are subject to significant federal and state regulation. The FCC regulates the licensing, construction, modification, operation, ownership, sale and interconnection of wireless communications systems, as do some state and local regulatory agencies. We cannot assure you that the FCC or any state or local agencies having jurisdiction over our business will not impose new or revised regulatory requirements, new or increased costs, or require changes in our current or planned operations. Indeed, the FCC has initiated a series of inquiries and rulemaking proceedings pertaining to the wireless industry that could result in material changes in the applicable rules and policies. The FCC and state regulatory agencies also are increasingly focused on the quality of service and customer support that wireless carriers provide and the FCC and several agencies have proposed or enacted new and potentially burdensome regulations in this area. The Communications Act, from which the FCC obtains its authority and state regulatory enabling legislation, may be interpreted in a manner that imposes additional costs for compliance or be further amended in a manner that could be adverse to us. Further, with the change in party affiliation of the President of the United States and changes in the composition of Federal and state legislatures and regulatory commissions, there may be additional legislative or regulatory changes that affect our business. The FCC also may change its rules, which could result in adverse consequences to our business, including harmful interference to our existing networks and spectrum. The FCC also is considering various spectrum allocations in bands adjacent or proximate to those licensed to us that may result in interference to our systems. If, as a result of interference, our customers experience a significant increase in dropped calls or significantly degraded service, we could experience higher churn and we may have difficulty adding additional customers, which could have an adverse effect on our business, our financial condition and operating results. In addition, the interference may cause our networks to have reduced capacity, which may require us to incur additional costs of adding cell sites or DAS nodes and to spend additional capital or may limit our ability to serve our customers, limit our growth, or increase our churn. We also are subject, or potentially subject, to a number of additional federal, state, and local laws, rules, ordinances and requirements, including, but not limited to, common carrier obligations; universal service obligations; number portability requirements; number pooling rules; rules governing billing, subscriber privacy and customer proprietary network information; tower lighting and painting; access to E911 and location accuracy requirements; roaming obligations; rules that require wireless service providers to configure their networks to facilitate electronic surveillance by law enforcement officials; rate averaging and integration requirements; emergency warning requirements; bill shock; rules governing spam, telemarketing and truth-in-billing; equal employment opportunity reporting requirements; outage reporting; and rules requiring us to offer equipment and services that are accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities, among others. There are also pending proceedings including, but not limited to proceedings exploring the imposition of various types of nondiscrimination and open access obligations on our handsets and networks; the prohibition of handset exclusivity; the possible re-imposition of bright-line spectrum aggregation requirements; further regulation of special access used for wireless backhaul services; requirements relating to information to be provided to customers; allocation of additional spectrum for wireless services, including modifying rules related to use of existing spectrum for wireless use; and the effects of the siting of communications towers on migratory birds, among others. Additionally, we may be subject to claims for violations of environmental law, regardless of fault, as a lessee or owner of any of our tower sites. Some of these requirements and pending proceedings, including without limitation those described above, pose technical and operational challenges to which we, and the industry as a whole, have not yet developed clear solutions and may require us to spend money to become in compliance. Further, these requirements generally are the subject of pending FCC, federal, state, local or judicial proceedings, and we are unable to predict how they may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business also is subject to various other regulations, including certain regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Securities Exchange Commission, the Department of Labor, the FCC, and other federal, state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or regulations of these regulatory bodies could negatively impact our operations and costs of doing business. Because of our smaller size, relatively smaller resources, more limited spectrum holdings, concentration of operations in a few states in major metropolitan areas, and composition of our current and prospective customer base, governmental regulations and orders can disproportionately increase our costs and affect our competitive position compared to other larger telecommunications providers. We are unable to predict the scope, pace or financial impact of regulations and other policy changes that could be adopted by the various governmental entities that oversee portions of our business. As previously noted herein, a variety of changes in regulatory policies are under consideration and depending upon the outcomes, the changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 51 Table of Contents Compliance with current or future federal, state, or local laws, regulations, rules, and ordinances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results, including but not limited to, increasing our operating expenses or costs, requiring us to obtain new or additional authorizations or permits, requiring us to change our business and customer service processes, limiting our ability to attract and retain certain customer segments, increasing our costs and expenses to offer services, increasing the costs of our services to our customers, requiring system and network upgrades, increasing cost of insurance coverage, requiring us to hire additional employees, requiring us to spend significant additional capital, limiting the capacity of our networks, limiting the services we can offer our customers, requiring us to change our business strategy and service plans. A failure to meet, or maintain compliance with, federal, state or local regulations, laws, rules or ordinances also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results, including, but not limited to, subjecting us to fines, forfeitures, penalties, license revocations, or other sanctions, including the imposition of mandatory reporting requirements and corporate monitors, limitations on our ability to participate in future FCC auctions or acquisitions of spectrum, and compliance programs and corporate monitors. In addition, a material failure to comply with regulations or statutory requirements may limit our ability to draw certain amounts under our senior secured credit facility or could result in a default under our senior secured credit facility or the indentures governing our senior notes. In addition, certain wireless companies who have participated in spectrum auctions as designated entities have become the target of qui tam lawsuits claiming that those wireless companies have defrauded the United States Government by investing in DEs, taking bidding credits and otherwise receiving benefits in FCC spectrum auctions to which such wireless companies were not entitled. Qui tam lawsuits generally are filed under seal in the first instance and companies may not know that they are a target of such a lawsuit unless and until it is made public. The person bringing the suit may share in any recovery by the government, which encourages lawsuits of this kind. If we become the target of a qui tam lawsuit resulting from its acquisition of spectrum originally granted to a DE, the resulting distraction to management and costs to defend may be material. If we become a target of a qui tam lawsuit and either is found to have defrauded the government, the damages may include civil penalties of up to $11,000 for each claim, plus a penalty of three times the amount of the damages sustained by the government, and may include the revocation of any licenses held by us, which were granted as a result of such fraud. If we lost those licenses originally acquired by a DE or if we are required to repay the bidding credits we received, or to pay damages and civil penalties under a qui tam lawsuit, or an audit concluded that we had not complied with the DE requirements, it could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Spectrum for which we have been granted licenses as a result of AWS Auction 66 and Auction 73 is subject to certain legal challenges, which may ultimately result in the FCC revoking our licenses. We were required by the applicable FCC rules to pay the full purchase price of approximately $1.4 billion and $313.3 million to the FCC for the licenses we were granted as a result of Auction 66 and Auction 73, respectively, even though there are ongoing challenges to some aspects of the final auction rules as they relate to DE participation in the auctions. Several interested parties are appealing these rules in the U.S. Courts and are seeking, among other relief, to overturn the results of Auction 66 and Auction 73. We are unable at this time to predict with certainty the likely outcome of these challenges, but the courts to date have not granted the relief sought. If the courts invalidate either auction, we could lose the licenses granted to us as a result of the auctions and would have no assurance of being able to reacquire the licenses in a subsequent re-auction. While we would likely receive a refund of the payments made to the FCC for the spectrum should either auction be overturned, we would not be reimbursed for time, money and efforts spent to clear the spectrum, expenses incurred to build systems operating on the spectrum, the interest expenses incurred by us prior to the refund, the losses associated with launching the markets on this spectrum, or the loss of revenue and profits associated with these markets. In addition, there could be a delay in us receiving a refund of our payments until the appeal is final. If the results of either auction were overturned and we receive a refund, the delay in the return of our money, the interest we would have incurred without reimbursement, the loss of any amounts spent to develop the licenses in the interim, which could be substantial, and the loss of the ability to provide service in the metropolitan areas covered by such licenses, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 52 Table of Contents New Rules Regarding Net Neutrality May Have a Material Adverse Affect on our Business Although the recently promulgated net neutrality rules have not yet become effective, MetroPCS already has been the subject of third party challenges at the FCC to the manner in which the company is configuring and managing its wireless broadband Internet access services and network. These challenges, and others that might follow, could limit our ability to offer differentiated services, price our services to be competitive with other providers of broadband Internet access services, has and could in the future subject us to adverse news articles and harm our reputation and good will, and could distract the attention of management and resources of the company. And, if and when the net neutrality rules become effective, they could be interpreted and applied in ways that adversely affect our business by limiting our ability to manage our subscribers’ use of our network, requiring us to provide third party access to our networks on terms and conditions that jeopardize our flat-rate, unlimited usage pricing plans or constrain our ability to offer innovative differentiated services, or could limit our ability to offer our services on a competitive basis with other providers. Our ability to employ network management techniques, or to manage bandwidth-intensive applications or uses, may be impaired in a manner that reduces the quality of our services for all subscribers. The result could be a decline in the quality of our services. If any of these risks occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. General Matters Our stock price has historically been, and may continue to be, volatile and you may lose all or some of your investment. The trading prices of the securities of telecommunications companies generally have been highly volatile. In particular, the trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to be, subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in reaction to a number of events and factors that may include, among other things: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our or our competitors’ operating and financial results; • introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors or changes in service plans or pricing by us or our competitors; • changes in, or our failure to meet, securities analysts’ expectations; • entry of new competitors into our markets or perceptions of increased price competition, including a price war; • concentration of offered services and assets in the U.S., in particular limited major metropolitan areas; • changes in our credit rating or future prospects; • disruptions of our operations or service providers necessary to our network operations; • seasonal or other variations in our customer base; • market perceptions relating to our services, network, handsets and deployment of our 4G LTE platform; • challenges to our intellectual property rights or claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others; • pending or threatened litigation or regulatory investigations; • adoption of or changes in governmental regulations and new accounting standards; • conditions and trends in the communications and high technology markets; • adverse publicity regarding our Company; 53 Table of Contents • mergers, acquisitions, strategic alliances or significant agreements, or resources of, or lack of , any of the foregoing, by us or by our competitors; • announcements by us or competitors of significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • sales of our common stock by our directors, executive officers or affiliates or significant stockholders; • the amount of short interest in our securities; • volatility in stock market prices and volumes, which is particularly common among securities of telecommunications companies; • the general state of the U.S. and world economies; • the availability or perceived availability of additional capital in general and our access to such capital; • availability of additional spectrum, whether by the announcement, commencement, bidding and closing of auctions for new spectrum or acquisitions of other businesses; • recruitment or departure of key personnel, management or board members; and • failure to timely file periodic reports. In addition, the stock market generally has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which may continue for the foreseeable future. This volatility has had a significant impact on the trading price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in the telecommunications industry. The trading price of our stock has fallen significantly since our initial public offering. These changes frequently occur irrespective of the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the trading price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our business, financial condition and operating results. The price volatility and continued decrease in our stock price could subject us to takeover bids, actions by the NYSE and possible losses for stockholders. Your ownership interest could be diluted by future issuances of shares that our Board has the authority to issue, and such future issuances or sales of such shares may adversely affect the market price of MetroPCS’ common stock. We have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our equity incentive compensation plans; thus, when we issue shares under these plans, the shares generally can be freely sold in the public market subject to any requirements under the Securities Act. We also have granted certain of our stockholders the right to require us to register their shares of our common stock. Our Articles of Incorporation currently allows us to have up to one billion shares of common stock outstanding which is substantially more than currently outstanding. We also have filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC, which allows us to issue registered debt, equity and other securities, including common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and guarantees of debt securities, in addition to the amounts already outstanding. The securities registered under this universal shelf registration statement could be offered from time to time with little or no advance notice, separately or together, directly by us or through underwriters, at amounts, prices, interest rates and other terms and conditions to be determined at the time of any offering. If we register, or propose to register, any additional securities under the Securities Act, either for our own account or for the account of security holders exercising registration rights, the number of shares subject to registration could increase and your interest could be significantly diluted and the sale of these shares may have a negative impact on the market price for our common stock. Further, the sale of a substantial amount of our common stock, or the possibility of such a sale, including sales by significant stockholders or executives of the Company, may reduce the market price of our common stock and could impede our ability to raise future capital through the issuance of equity securities at a time and at a price we deem appropriate. 54 Table of Contents If we fail to manage our planned growth effectively and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to continue to experience growth in the future. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the SEC, collectively referred to as SOX. SOX requires us to furnish a report of management’s assessment of the design and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, and our management also is required to report on the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures. We regularly evaluate our internal controls, and our independent auditors annually attest to our internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with SOX. Material weaknesses could result in inaccurate financial statements or other disclosures or failure to prevent fraud. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, or to successfully remediate any material weaknesses in a timely manner, we may not comply with SOX and our independent auditors would be unable to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and our stock price could fall and we could be subject to investigations or sanctions by regulatory authorities or delisting from the NYSE. Further, any material weakness or failure of our internal controls, or the effectiveness of our internal controls, could result in a restatement of our financial statements which could also lead to a decline in our stock price. Inadequate internal controls also could harm our reputation, cause us to lose customers, or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Any restatement of our financial statements could have adverse consequences, including the triggering of an event of default under our senior secured credit facility and the indentures and supplemental indentures governing our senior notes, our credit rating could be downgraded, which could result in an increase in our borrowing costs and make it more difficult to borrow funds on reasonable terms or at all, the NYSE could begin delisting proceedings, and we could have stockholder litigation or SEC enforcement action, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The value of our FCC licenses may drop in the future as a result of volatility in the marketplace and the sale of additional spectrum by the FCC. The market value of FCC licenses has been subject to significant volatility in the past and the value of our licenses may continue to fluctuate based on market conditions, the availability of spectrum, whether through consolidation in the industry, by FCC regulatory action or auction, the availability of buyers and sellers, and the inability to ascertain the value of any license due to such volatility. The impact of the availability of spectrum from any future actions and auctions on license values is uncertain. There can be no assurance of the market value of our FCC licenses or that the market value of our FCC licenses will not be volatile in the future, whether as a result of consolidation in the industry, the sale of spectrum by one or more carriers or an FCC auction. If the value of our licenses was to decline significantly, we could be forced to record non-cash impairment charges that could impact our ability to borrow additional funds. A significant impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our net income and on the carrying value of our licenses on our balance sheet, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Declines in our operating performance could ultimately result in an impairment of our indefinite-lived assets, including FCC licenses, or our long-lived assets, including property and equipment. We assess potential impairments to our long-lived assets, including property and equipment and certain intangible assets, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We assess potential impairments to indefinite-lived intangible assets, including FCC licenses, annually and when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. The estimation of fair values or carrying values requires assumptions by management about factors that are highly uncertain and possibly volatile, including future cash flow, stock prices, discount rates and other factors. If adverse economic conditions, poor consumer confidence, reduced consumer spending, volatile and decreasing stock prices, including our stock, continues for a period of time or we do not achieve our planned operating results, these factors may ultimately result in a non-cash impairment charge related to our long-lived assets and/or our indefinite-lived intangible assets. A significant impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and on the carrying value of our FCC licenses and/or our long-lived assets on our balance sheet, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 55 Table of Contents Changes in interpretations of accounting requirements, changes in industry practice, the identification of errors or changes in management assumptions could require amendments to or restatements of financial information or disclosures included in this or prior filings with the SEC. We prepare our consolidated financial statement in accordance with GAAP and file such financial statements with the SEC in accordance with the SEC’s rules and regulations. The preparation of financial statements requires our management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We base our estimates on historical experience, our perceptions of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other various assumptions and information that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Changes in accounting requirements or in guidance or interpretations related to such requirements, changes in industry practice, the identification of errors or changes in estimates or assumptions could require restatements of financial information or amendments to disclosures included in this or prior filings with the SEC. Even with our current levels of indebtedness, we may incur additional indebtedness. The terms of the agreements governing our long-term indebtedness, subject to specified limitations, allow for the incurrence of additional indebtedness by us and our subsidiaries. Although we have substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur significantly more debt under our senior secured credit facility and our indentures governing our senior notes, which could further reduce the cash we have available to invest in our operations as a result of our increased debt service obligations. In addition, the more leveraged we become, the more we, and in turn the holders of our securities, become exposed to the risks described above in the risk factor entitled “Our operations require continued capital expenditures and a failure to access additional capital could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.” In order to provide additional flexibility, we have filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC to register debt, equity and other securities, including common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and guarantees of debt securities. The securities registered under this universal shelf registration statement could be offered from time to time with little or no advance notice, separately or together, directly by us or through underwriters, at amounts, prices, interest rates and other terms and conditions to be determined at the time of any offering. There can be no assurance that sufficient funds will be available to us under our existing indebtedness or otherwise. Further, should we need to raise additional capital, the foreign ownership restrictions mandated by the FCC, and applicable to us, could limit our ability to attract additional equity financing outside the United States. If we were able to obtain funds, it may not be on terms and conditions acceptable to us, which could limit or preclude our ability to pursue new opportunities, expand our service, upgrade our networks, engage in acquisitions, or purchase additional spectrum, thus limiting our ability to expand our business which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. To service our debt, we will require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us. Our ability to meet our existing or future debt obligations and to reduce our indebtedness will depend on our future performance and the other cash requirements of our business. Our performance, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic conditions, financial, competitive, business, political, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to borrow funds in the future to make payment on our debt will depend on the satisfaction of covenants in our senior secured credit facility, the indentures governing our senior notes, other debt agreements and other agreements we may enter into in the future. Specifically, we will need to maintain certain financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. We cannot assure you that we will continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations at or above current levels or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility or from other sources in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt or repay all of our indebtedness in a timely manner or on favorable or commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to satisfy our financial covenants or generate sufficient cash to timely repay our debt, the lenders could accelerate the maturity of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness. As a result, we believe we may need to refinance all or a portion of our remaining existing indebtedness prior to its maturity. Disruptions in the financial markets or the general amount of debt refinancings occurring at the same time could make it more difficult to obtain debt or equity financing on reasonable terms or at all. 56 Table of Contents Our outstanding debt is subject to a change in control provision and in the event of a change in control we may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to fulfill our obligations. Under our indentures governing our senior notes and the terms of our senior secured credit facility, upon the occurrence of a change in control as defined therein, we would be required to offer to repurchase all of our outstanding senior notes and repay our outstanding debt under our senior secured credit facility. We may not have sufficient access to funds at the time of the change in control event to make the required offer to repurchase or pay down our outstanding debt. Additionally, a default under the indentures governing our senior notes would result in a default under our senior secured credit facility. Any failure to make or complete a change in control offer would place us in default under our indentures and senior secured credit facility. Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes include restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility. Our senior secured credit facility and indentures governing our senior notes impose material operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions, subject in certain cases to ordinary course of business and other exceptions, may limit our ability to engage in some transactions, including the following: • incurring additional debt; • paying dividends, redeeming capital stock or making other restricted payments or investments; • selling or buying assets, properties or licenses; • developing assets, properties or licenses which we have or in the future may procure; • creating liens on assets; • participating in future FCC auctions of spectrum or private sales of spectrum; • engaging in mergers, acquisitions, business combinations, or other transactions; • merging, consolidating or disposing of assets; • entering into transactions with affiliates; and • placing restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments. Under the senior secured credit facility, we are also subject to financial maintenance covenants with respect to our senior secured leverage and in certain circumstances total maximum consolidated leverage and certain minimum fixed charge coverage ratios. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain debt financing, repurchase stock, refinance or pay principal on our outstanding debt, complete acquisitions for cash or debt or react to changes in our operating environment or the economy. Any future debt that we incur may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of the senior secured credit facility or the indentures governing our senior notes, or certain current and any subsequent financing agreements may result in an event of default under these agreements, which in turn may result in defaults or acceleration of obligations under these agreements and other agreements, giving our lenders the right to terminate any commitments they had made to provide us with further funds and to require us to repay all amounts then outstanding. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results and our senior creditors would have a prior secured claim to any collateral securing the debt owed to them. Our ability to make payments on our debt, to repay our existing indebtedness when due, and to fund operations and significant planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to produce cash from operations is subject to a number of risks, including: • introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors or changes in service plans or pricing by us or our competitors; 57 Table of Contents • our ability to maintain our current cost structure; and • our ability to continue to grow our customer base and maintain our projected levels of churn. Our substantial debt service obligations could have important material consequences to you, including the following: • limiting our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, technological initiatives and other general corporate purposes; • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic downturns and industry conditions and limiting our ability to withstand competitive pressure; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the telecommunications industry; • limiting our ability to increase our capital expenditures to roll out new services or to upgrade our networks to new technologies, such as 4G LTE; • limiting our ability to purchase additional spectrum or develop new metropolitan areas in the future; • reducing the amount of cash available for working capital needs, capital expenditures for existing and new markets and other corporate purposes by requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors who are less leveraged than we are. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business as planned, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, a substantial portion of our debt, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, bears interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow. While we have and may enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher interest rates in the future, any such agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk, and any portion not subject to such agreements would have full exposure to higher interest rates. Settlements, judgments, restraints on our current or future manner of doing business or legal costs resulting from pending or future litigation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. We are regularly involved in a number of legal proceedings before various state and federal courts and the FCC. Such legal proceedings can be complex, costly, protracted and highly disruptive to business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and other key personnel. Also, changes in the law or legal interpretations can affect the outcome of existing rules. The assessment of the outcome of legal proceedings, including our potential liability, if any, is a highly subjective process that requires judgments about future events that are not within our control. The outcome of litigation, including amounts ultimately received or paid upon settlement or other resolution of litigation and other contingencies may differ materially from amounts accrued in the financial statements. In addition, litigation or similar proceedings could impose restraints on our current or future manner of doing business. Further, litigation could be costly to defend, divert management’s attention from our business, and could subject us to substantial liability. Such potential outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business financial condition, of operating results, or ability to do business. 58 Table of Contents We are currently controlled by a limited number of stockholders, and their interests may be different from yours. A certain portion of the voting power of our capital stock is concentrated in the hands of a few stockholders some of which also have representatives who are members of our board of directors. As a result, if such persons act together, they may have the ability to significantly influence whether required consents can be obtained and may have substantial control over all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, changes in our capital structure, governance, stockholder approvals and the approval of any merger, consolidation or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. These stockholders may have different interests than the other holders of our common stock and may make decisions that are adverse to your interests. Our stockholder rights plan could prevent a change in control of our Company in instances in which some stockholders may believe a change in control is in their best interests. We have a stockholder rights plan, or Rights Plan. Pursuant to the Rights Plan, we have issued to our stockholders one preferred stock purchase right for each outstanding share of our common stock as of March 27, 2007. Each right, when exercisable, will entitle its holder to purchase from us a unit consisting of one one-thousandth of a share of series A junior participating preferred stock at $66.67 per share. Our Rights Plan is intended to protect stockholders in the event of an unfair or coercive offer to acquire our Company and to provide our board of directors with adequate time to evaluate unsolicited offers. The Rights Plan may prevent or make takeovers or unsolicited corporate transactions more difficult. The Rights Plan will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms that our board of directors does not believe are in our best interests and those of our stockholders and may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. Conflicts of interest may arise because some of our directors are principals of our stockholders, and we have waived our rights to certain corporate opportunities. Our board of directors includes representatives of certain of our significant stockholders. Those stockholders and their respective affiliates may invest in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us, companies in which we transact business, or companies in which they are currently invested may already compete with us. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of those stockholders or their respective affiliates and the interests of our other stockholders arise, these directors may not be disinterested. Under Delaware law, transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest are generally permissible so long as (1) the material facts relating to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our board of directors and a majority of our disinterested directors approves the transaction, (2) the material facts relating to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our stockholders and a majority of our disinterested stockholders approves the transaction, or (3) the transaction is otherwise fair to us. Also, pursuant to the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our non-employee directors are not required to offer us any corporate opportunity of which they become aware and could take any such opportunity for themselves or offer it to other companies in which they have an investment, unless such opportunity is expressly offered to them in their capacity as a director of our Company. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware corporate law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Delaware law, as well as our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, contains provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, even if it were beneficial to our stockholders to do so. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions: • authorize the issuance of preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval to increase the number of outstanding shares and deter or prevent a takeover attempt; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; 59 Table of Contents • require stockholder meetings to be called only by the President or at the written request of a majority of the directors then in office and not the stockholders; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • provide that our board of directors is divided into three classes, each serving three-year terms; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes restrictions on business combinations such as mergers between us and a holder of 15% or more of our voting stock. Any of the foregoing events or other events could cause revenues, customer additions, operating income, capital expenditures and other financial or statistical information to vary from our forward-looking estimates by a material amount. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 