Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our business strategy may not succeed in the long term. We offer unlimited wireless services for flat monthly rates without requiring a long-term service contract. This approach to marketing wireless services may not prove to be successful in the long term. Some companies that have offered this type of service in the past have not been successful. From time to time, we evaluate our service offerings and the demands of our target customers and may amend, change, discontinue or adjust our service offerings or new trial service offerings as a result. These new or changed service offerings may not be successful or prove to be profitable. Our performance and ability to construct and launch new metropolitan areas to date may not be indicative of our future results. A major component of our business strategy involves expanding into new geographic areas beyond our Core Markets and these geographic areas may present competitive or other challenges different from those encountered in our Core Markets. We also have a limited operating and financial history upon which to evaluate our financial performance, business plan execution, ability to construct and launch new metropolitan areas, and ability to succeed in the future. We constructed our first networks beginning in 2001 and began offering service in certain metropolitan areas in the first quarter of 2002. We and Royal Street face significant challenges in constructing and launching new metropolitan areas, including, but not limited to, negotiating and entering into agreements with third parties for distributed antenna systems, or DAS systems, leasing cell sites, constructing our network, and securing all necessary consents, permits and approvals from third parties and local and state authorities, and clearing of spectrum of incumbent users in the Auction 66 Markets. If we or Royal Street are unable to execute our respective plans, we or Royal Street may experience delays in our ability to construct and launch new metropolitan areas or grow our respective business, and our financial results may be materially adversely affected. In addition, our financial performance in new geographic areas, including our Expansion Markets, may not be as positive as our Core Markets. We face intense competition from other telecommunications providers which could adversely affect our operating results and hinder our ability to grow. We compete directly in each of our markets with other wireless, wireline, cable, and satellite communications providers. Many of our current and prospective competitors are, or are affiliated with, major companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, personnel and marketing resources than we have (including spectrum holdings, brands and intellectual property) and larger market share than we have, which may affect our ability to compete successfully. These competitors often have established relationships with a larger base of current and potential customers. Some of our competitors may undertake mergers and strategic alliances that allow them greater access to capital, access to wider geographic territory, access to greater spectrum or attractive bundles of services. In addition, some of our competitors are or are becoming or may become privately owned, which may provide them with certain advantages and increased flexibility. Although our flat-rate, no long-term contract service offerings distinguish us from many of our competitors, the competitive pressures of the wireless telecommunications industry have caused, and may continue to cause, other carriers to offer service plans with increasingly large bundles of minutes of use at increasingly lower prices, service plans with unlimited nights and weekends, and unlimited service offerings. Certain of our national wireless competitors have recently announced that they will offer unlimited fixed-rate service plans in the markets we currently operate and plan to operate and this may cause other wireless PCS competitors to also offer unlimited fixed-rate service plans. Moreover, certain carriers we compete against, or may compete against in the future, offer additional services, such as wireline phone service, cable or satellite television, media and Internet, and are capable of bundling their wireless services with such other services in a package of services that we may not be able to duplicate at competitive prices. In response to competitive offerings, we have added, and in the future may be required to add, additional select features to our existing service plans in our metropolitan areas, and we may consider additional targeted promotional activities as we evaluate the competitive environment going forward. We currently have competitors who are offering unlimited service plans similar to ours in the metropolitan areas we currently serve and certain of our national wireless competitors have announced they will offer unlimited fixed-rate service plans in the markets we currently operate and plan to operate. As a result, we will be unable to launch fixed-rate unlimited service plans ahead of our competition in our new markets. As a result, we expect that increased competition will result in more competitive pricing, slower growth and increased churn of 24 Table of Contents our customer base, as well as the possibility of having to change our service plans in response to competition, which may result in lower revenues, lower ARPU, and lower adjusted EBITDA. We may face additional competition from new entrants in the wireless marketplace which could adversely affect our operating results and hinder our ability to grow. The FCC is taking steps to make additional spectrum available for wireless services in each of our metropolitan areas. The auction and licensing of new spectrum may result in new competitors and/or allow existing competitors to acquire additional spectrum, which could allow them to offer services that we may not be able to offer with the licenses we hold or to which we have access due to technological or economic constraints. The FCC already has allocated an additional 62 MHz of spectrum in the 700 MHz band which may be used to offer services competitive with the services we offer or plan to offer and another 40 MHz of spectrum has already been allocated for AWS. In the future, our competitors may be able to use certain FCC programs, such as the FCC’s designated entity program or the proposed nationwide interoperable networks for public safety use, to purchase or acquire spectrum at materially lower prices than what we are required to pay. In addition, energy companies and utility companies are also expanding their services to offer communications and broadband services. This additional competition may materially adversely affect our financial results. We may be unable to obtain the roaming and other services we need from other carriers to remain competitive. Many of our competitors have regional or national networks which enable them to offer automatic roaming and long distance telephone services to their subscribers at a lower cost than we can offer and allow them to offer unlimited fixed-rate roaming plans on their existing networks over a larger area than we can offer. We do not have a national network, and we must pay fees to other carriers who provide roaming services and who carry long distance calls made by our subscribers. We currently have roaming agreements with several other carriers which allow our customers to roam on those carriers’ network. The roaming agreements, however, do not cover all geographic areas where our customers may seek service when they travel, generally cover voice but not data services, and at least one such agreement may be terminated on relatively short notice. In addition, we believe the rates we are charged by certain carriers in some instances are higher than the rates they charge to other roaming partners. Further, many of the wireless carriers against whom we compete have service area footprints substantially larger than our footprint and some have substantially more spectrum. Certain of our competitors also are able to offer their customers roaming services over larger geographic areas and at lower rates than we can offer. Our ability to replicate these roaming service offerings at rates which will make us, or allow us to be, competitive is uncertain at this time. The FCC recently clarified that CMRS providers must offer automatic roaming services on just, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms, but found that a CMRS provider is not required to offer roaming services for any geographic area in which a requesting carrier holds licenses to or leases spectrum even if it has not yet built its system, for roaming services that are classified as information services (such as high speed wireless Internet access services), or for roaming services that are not classified as CMRS (such as non-interconnected services). If we are unable to enter into or maintain roaming agreements for roaming services that our customers want at reasonable rates, including in areas where we have licenses or lease spectrum but have not constructed facilities, we may be unable to compete effectively and may lose customers and revenues. We may also be unable to continue to receive roaming services in areas in which we hold licenses or lease spectrum after the expiration or termination of our existing roaming agreements. We also may be obligated to allow customers of other technically compatible carriers to roam automatically on our systems, which may enhance their ability to compete with us. We also have no assurance that the rates we will be charged for automatic roaming will be reasonable as the FCC did not establish a default rate. Some of our competitors have technological capabilities that we may not be able to successfully compete with in our existing metropolitan areas or any new metropolitan areas we may launch, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results in the future. Some of the carriers we compete against provide wireless services using cellular frequencies in the 800 MHz band and in the future may use 700 MHz frequencies. These frequencies enjoy propagation advantages over the PCS and AWS spectrum we currently have licenses for or have access to, which may cause us and Royal Street to have to spend more capital than our competitors in certain areas to cover the same area. In addition, competitors and emerging technology companies may use technologies which may have advantages over CDMA or use lower priced or unlicensed spectrum. As a result, we may experience material and adverse effects on our business and financial results in the future. 25 Table of Contents We may experience increased competition as a result of new technologies. With the development of new technologies, products and services, we may experience increased competition from new or existing competitors. In addition, other service providers have announced plans to develop or have announced a WiFi or WiMax enabled handset. Such a handset would permit subscribers to communicate using voice and data services with their handset using VoIP technology in any area equipped with a wireless Internet connection, or hot spot, potentially allowing more carriers to offer larger bundles of minutes while retaining low prices and the ability to offer attractive roaming rates. The number of hot spots in the U.S. is growing rapidly, with some major cities and urban areas being covered entirely. As demand for new services and technologies, such as WiFi or WiMax, grows, and if we do not offer these services, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining subscribers, which will have an adverse effect on our business. The wireless industry is experiencing rapid technological change, and we may lose customers if we fail to keep up with these changes. The wireless telecommunications industry has been, and we believe will continue to be, characterized by significant technological change, including the rapid development and introduction of new technologies, products, and services, such as VoIP, push-to-talk services, location based services, such as global positioning satellite, or GPS, mapping technology and high speed data services, including streaming audio, streaming video, mobile gaming, advertisement paid services, video conferencing and other applications. Our continued success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate or adapt to technological changes and to offer, on a timely basis, services that meet customer demands. For us to keep pace with these technological changes and remain competitive, we must continue to make significant capital expenditures to our networks and/or acquire additional spectrum. Customer acceptance of the services that we offer will continually be affected by technology-based differences in our product and service offerings and those offered by our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will obtain access to new technology on a timely basis, on satisfactory terms, or that we will have adequate spectrum to offer new services or implement new technologies. We also cannot be certain that the choices we make regarding technology and new service offerings will prove to be successful in the market place or will achieve their promised results. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are dependent on certain network technology improvements which may not occur, or may be materially delayed. The adequacy of our spectrum to serve our customers in markets where we have access to less than 20 MHz of spectrum is dependent upon certain recent and ongoing technology improvements, such as EV-DO Revision A with VoIP, EVRC-B or 4G capable handsets, long term evolution, or LTE, and intelligent antennas. There can be no assurance that (1) the additional technology improvements will be developed by our existing infrastructure provider, (2) such improvements will be delivered when needed, (3) the prices for such improvements will be cost-effective, or (4) the technology improvements will deliver our projected network efficiency improvements. If projected or anticipated technology improvements are not achieved, or are not achieved in the timeframes we need such improvements, or at the costs we anticipate, we and Royal Street may not have adequate spectrum in certain metropolitan areas, which may limit our ability to grow our customer base, may inhibit our ability to achieve additional economies of scale, may limit our ability to offer new services offered by our competitors, may require us to spend considerably more capital and incur more operating expenses than our competitors with more spectrum, and may force us to purchase additional spectrum at a potentially material cost. If our network infrastructure vendor does not supply such improvements or materially delays the delivery of such improvements and other network equipment manufacturers are able to develop such technology, we may be at a material competitive disadvantage to our competitors and we may be required to change network infrastructure vendors, the cost of which could be material. We may be unable to purchase handsets and network equipment for spectrum we acquire. New spectrum we have acquired and may acquire, including AWS and 700 MHz spectrum, may require modified or new handsets and new or modified network equipment, which may not be immediately available. We do not manufacture or develop our own network equipment or handsets and are dependent on third party manufacturers to design, develop and manufacture such equipment. If handsets or network equipment are not available when we need them, we may not be able to build out any new metropolitan areas we have or may acquire in the future, or any licenses we may acquire in the 700 MHz auction. For example, we plan to launch certain of our Auction 66 Markets in 2008 and 2009. If our equipment providers do not timely provide the network equipment and handsets for use on 26 Table of Contents the AWS spectrum, we could be forced to delay the launch of those markets. Delays in the launch of new metropolitan areas, including our Auction 66 Markets, may have a material and adverse effect on our financial results. An economic slowdown or recession in the United States may slow our growth and materially adversely affect our business. A significant portion of our subscribers are in the lower half of the average income in the metropolitan areas we serve and may be disproportionately affected by any economic downturn or recession in the United States. In addition, a number of our subscribers work in industries which may be disproportionately affected by an economic slowdown or recession. If our existing subscribers and potential new subscribers are unable to pay for our services, we may experience increased churn and lower growth which would materially adversely affect our financial and operational results. Anti-immigration policies undertaken by federal, state or local governments may limit our growth in key demographic segments of our customer base materially adversely affect our business. Federal, state and local governments are considering or enacting anti-immigration policies and regulations which may eliminate or adversely affect the ability of certain segments of the population from being able to work in the United States. We believe that our subscriber base includes these segments of the population, especially in certain metropolitan areas, such as Los Angeles. If these anti-immigration policies and regulations limit or adversely affect the ability of this segment of the population to work, we may experience increased churn and lower growth which would materially adversely affect our financial and operational results. Our billing vendor has publicly announced that it plans to leave the telecommunications services business, including the billing services business. Verisign, the vendor for our existing billing system, has publicly announced that it plans to leave the telecommunications services business, including the billing services business. We have a contract with Verisign that will allow us to transition our billing services to a third party through mid-year 2009. We are in the process of identifying and negotiating a new billing service agreement with a third party. If Verisign fails to continue to provide the services it has previously provided prior to our transition to a third party system, if Verisign fails to continue to upgrade its software and systems as we grow and change our business, or if we are unable to find a new vendor to support our billing system on a cost effective basis or at all or we are unable to transition our billing services to a new vendor before the end of the transition period, we may not be able to bill our customers, provide customer care, grow our business, report financial results, or manage our business and we may have increased churn, all of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial results. A patent infringement suit has been filed against us by Leap which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. On June 14, 2006, Leap and Cricket Communications, Inc., or collectively Leap, filed suit against us in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall Division, for infringement of U.S. Patent No. 6,813,497 “Method for Providing Wireless Communication Services and Network and System for Delivering of Same,” or the ‘497 Patent, held by Leap. The complaint seeks both injunctive relief and monetary damages, including treble damages, for our alleged infringement of such patent. On September 22, 2006, Royal Street Communications filed a separate action in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida, Tampa Division, Civil Action No. 8:06-CV-01754-T-23TBM, seeking a declaratory judgment that Leap’s ‘497 Patent is invalid and not being infringed upon by Royal Street Communications. Leap responded to Royal Street Communications’ complaint by filing a motion to dismiss Royal Street Communications’ complaint for lack of jurisdiction or, in the alternative, that the action be transferred to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall Division, where Leap has brought suit against the Company under the same patent. Royal Street Communications responded to this motion, but the Court entered an Order transferring the action to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall Division, where it remains pending. In February 2008, Leap answered the complaint and counterclaimed against Royal Street Communications, claiming that Royal Street Communications’ infringes the ‘497 Patent and seeking both injunctive relief and monetary damages, including treble damages, for Royal Street Communications’ alleged infringement by its wireless communication systems and associated services of the ‘497 patent. If Leap were successful in its claim for injunctive relief in either action, we and Royal Street Communications could be enjoined from operating our respective businesses in the manner in which we and Royal Street Communications currently operate, which could require us and Royal Street Communications to expend additional capital to change certain technologies and operating practices, or could prevent both us and Royal Street Communications from offering some or all of the services we each provide using some or all of the existing systems. In addition, if Leap were successful in its claim for monetary damages, we both could be forced to pay Leap substantial damages, including treble damages, for past infringement and/or ongoing royalties on a portion of both our revenues, which could materially adversely impact our financial performance and Royal Street Communications’ financial performance. 27 Table of Contents A patent infringement suit has been filed against us by Freedom Wireless which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. On January 7, 2008, Freedom Wireless, Inc., or Freedom Wireless, filed suit against us in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, San Francisco, for infringement of U.S. Patent No. 5,722,067 entitled “Security Cellular Telecommunications System,” U.S. Patent No. 6,157,823 entitled “Security Cellular Telecommunications System,” and U.S. Patent No. 6,236,851 entitled “Prepaid Security Cellular Telecommunications System” held by Freedom Wireless. The complaint seeks both injunctive relief and monetary damages, including treble damages, for our alleged infringement of these patents. We have tendered this action to Verisign, our billing vendor, and they have indicated that they are reviewing our indemnification request. Verisign, also has indicated that it plans to leave the telecommunications service business and cease providing us with billing services at the end of our current contract. We can give no assurance that Verisign will defend us against this action or that Verisign may not cease providing us with billing services altogether. If Freedom Wireless is successful in its claim for injunctive relief, we could be enjoined from operating our business in the manner we operate currently, which could require us to redesign our current billing or other systems, to expend additional capital to change certain of our technologies and operating practices, or could prevent us from offering certain of our services. In addition, if Freedom Wireless is successful in its claim for monetary damage, we could be forced to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, for past infringement and/or ongoing royalties on a portion of our revenues, which could materially adversely impact our financial performance. If Freedom Wireless prevails in its action, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the actions may consume valuable management time, may be very costly to defend and may distract management attention away from our business. We and our suppliers may be subject to claims of infringement regarding telecommunications technologies that are protected by patents and other intellectual property rights. Telecommunications technologies are protected by a wide array of patents and other intellectual property rights. As a result, third parties may assert infringement claims against us or our suppliers from time to time based on our or their general business operations, the equipment, software or services we or they use or provide, or the specific operation of our wireless networks or service. We generally have indemnification agreements with the manufacturers, licensors and suppliers who provide us with the equipment, software and technology that we use in our business to protect us against possible infringement claims, but we cannot guarantee that we will be fully protected against all losses associated with an infringement claim. Our suppliers may be subject to infringement claims that if proven could preclude the supplier from supplying us with the products and services we require to run our business or offer our services, require the supplier to change the products and services they provide to us in a way which could have a material adverse effect on us, or cause the supplier to increase the charges for their products and services to us. In addition, our suppliers may be unable to pay any damages or honor their indemnification obligations to us, which may result in us having to bear such losses. We may also have to buy equipment and services from other third party suppliers. Moreover, we may be subject to claims of infringement that products, software and services provided by different vendors which we combine with products or services provided by other vendors or with our services in order to offer services to our customers and we may not have any indemnification protection from our vendors for these claims. Further, we have been, and may be, subject to further claims that certain business processes we use may infringe on the rights of third parties, and we may have no indemnification rights from any of our vendors or suppliers. Whether or not an infringement claim is valid or successful, it could adversely affect our business by diverting management’s attention, involving us in costly and time-consuming litigation, requiring us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all), requiring us to pay royalties for prior periods, requiring us or our suppliers to redesign our or their business operations, processes or systems to avoid claims of infringement, or requiring us to purchase products and services from different vendors or not sell certain products or services. If a claim is found to be valid or if we or our suppliers cannot successfully negotiate a required royalty or license agreement, we could be forced to pay substantial damages, including potentially treble damages, we could be subject to an injunction that could disrupt our business, prevent us from offering certain products or services and cause us to incur losses of customers or revenues, any or all of which could be material and could adversely affect our business, financial performance, operating results and the market price of our stock or notes. 28 Table of Contents Substantially all of our network infrastructure equipment is manufactured or provided by a single infrastructure vendor and any failure by that vendor could result in a material adverse effect on us. We have an agreement with Lucent Technologies, Inc., now known as Alcatel Lucent, to provide us with PCS and AWS CDMA system products and services, including without limitation, wireless base stations, switches, power, cable and transmission equipment and services with an initial term through the earlier to occur of (1) December 31, 2011, or (2) the date on which we have purchased or licensed products, services and licensed materials under the agreement equal to a sum which we currently expect to spend for products, services, or licensed material from Alcatel Lucent from June 6, 2005 through December 31, 2011. The agreement does not cover any other AWS or non-PCS spectrum we may acquire in the future, including any spectrum we may acquire in the 700 MHz band. The agreement provides for both exclusive and non-exclusive pricing for PCS and AWS CDMA products and the agreement may be renewed at our option on an annual basis for three additional years after its initial term concludes. Substantially all of our PCS and AWS network infrastructure equipment is manufactured or provided by Alcatel Lucent. A substantial portion of the equipment manufactured or provided by Alcatel Lucent is proprietary, which means that equipment and software from other manufacturers may not work with Alcatel Lucent’s equipment and software, or may require the expenditure of additional capital, which may be material. If Alcatel Lucent ceases to develop, or substantially delays development of, new products or support existing equipment and software, we may be required to spend significant amounts of money to replace such equipment and software, may not be able to offer new products or service, and may not be able to compete effectively in our markets. If we fail to continue purchasing our PCS and AWS CDMA products exclusively from Alcatel Lucent, we may have to pay certain liquidated damages based on the difference in prices between exclusive and non-exclusive prices, which would be material to us. We rely on third-party suppliers to provide our customers and us with equipment, software and services that are integral to our business, and any significant disruption in our relationship with these vendors could increase our cost and affect our operating efficiencies. We have entered into agreements with third-party suppliers to provide equipment, software and services that are integral to our business, such as customer care, financial reporting, billing and payment processing. We purchase a substantial portion of this equipment and services from only a few major suppliers and we generally rely on one key vendor in each geographic area. One of our vendors, Verisign, has publicly announced that it plans to leave the telecommunications services business, including the billing services business. Sophisticated financial, management, information and billing systems are vital to our ability to monitor and control costs, bill customers, process customer orders, provide customer service, produce reliable and accurate financial reports, and achieve operating efficiencies. We currently rely on internal systems and third-party vendors to provide all of our information, financial, and processing systems. Some of our billing, financial, customer service and management information systems have been developed by third-parties and may not perform as anticipated. If these suppliers experience interruptions or other problems delivering these products or services on a timely basis or at all, it may cause us to have difficulty providing services to or billing our customers, developing and deploying new services and/or upgrading, maintaining, improving our networks, or generating accurate or timely financial reports and information. If alternative suppliers and vendors become necessary, we may not be able to obtain satisfactory and timely replacement services on economically attractive terms, or at all. Some of these agreements may be terminated upon relatively short notice. The loss, termination or expiration of these contracts or our inability to renew them at all or on favorable terms or negotiate contracts with other providers at comparable rates could harm our business. Our reliance on others to provide essential services on our behalf also gives us less control over the efficiency, timeliness and quality of these services. In addition, our plans for developing and implementing our financial information and billing systems rely to some extent on the design, development and delivery of products and services by third-party vendors. Our right to use these systems is dependent on license agreements with third-party vendors. Since we rely on third-party vendors to provide some of these services, any switch or disruption by our vendors could be costly and affect operating efficiencies. If we experience a higher rate of customer turnover than we have forecasted, our costs could increase and our revenues could decline, which would reduce our profits. Unlike many of our competitors, we do not require our customers to enter into long-term service contracts. As a result, our customers have the ability to cancel their service at any time without penalty, and we therefore expect our churn rate to be higher than other wireless carriers. If we experience a higher rate of churn, we could experience reduced revenues and increased marketing costs to attract the replacement customers required to sustain our business plan, which could reduce our profit margin and could reduce the cash available to construct and operate new 29 Table of Contents markets. In addition, we may not be able to replace customers who leave our service profitably or at all. Our rate of customer churn may be affected by several factors, including the following: • network coverage; • reliability issues, such as dropped and blocked calls and network availability; • handset problems; • lack of competitive regional and nationwide roaming and the inability of our customers to cost-effectively roam onto other wireless networks; • affordability; • supplier or vendor failures; • customer care concerns; • lack of early access to the newest handsets; • wireless number portability requirements that allow customers to keep their wireless phone number when switching between service providers; • our inability to offer bundled services or new services offered by our competitors; and • competitive offers by third parties. We cannot assure you that our strategies to address customer churn will be successful. If we experience a high rate of wireless customer churn or fail to replace lost customers, our revenues could decline and our costs could increase which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We plan to utilize DAS systems to construct critical portions of our new metropolitan areas, including the Auction 66 Markets, and any delay in construction of such systems may delay a launch of new metropolitan areas, including the Auction 66 Markets. We currently plan to use DAS systems in lieu of traditional cell sites to provide service to certain critical portions of new metropolitan areas we plan to build, including the Auction 66 Markets. These DAS systems may be leased and/or licensed from third party suppliers. The use of DAS systems to provide service in difficult to construct areas of a metropolitan area, such as downtown areas, is not new to wireless carriers; however, the scope of our proposed use of such DAS systems is new to us. In addition, in order to construct DAS systems, the DAS provider will be required to obtain necessary authority from the relevant state and local regulatory authorities and to secure certain agreements, such as right of way agreements, in order to construct or operate the DAS systems. In addition, the DAS system provider may be required to construct a transport network as part of their construction of the DAS systems. Some of the DAS system providers we are using have not previously constructed DAS systems in certain of our new metropolitan areas, including our Auction 66 Markets, so there may be unforeseen obstacles and delays in constructing the DAS systems in those metropolitan areas. DAS systems also pose particular compliance challenges with regard to the FCC’s recently adopted eight hour back up power requirement. Since the scope of the DAS systems being considered is substantial and we are considering using these DAS systems to provide service in critical areas, any delay in the construction of these DAS systems could delay our launch of our new metropolitan areas and could have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. In addition, the use of DAS systems will result in an acceleration of capital expenditures compared to our traditional metropolitan builds without DAS systems. We utilize a limited number of DAS providers and any financial or other inability of such providers to deliver the DAS systems could materially adversely affect our launch of service in new metropolitan areas, including, the Auction 66 Markets. We utilize a limited number of DAS system providers. If a major DAS system provider were to experience severe financial difficulties, or file for bankruptcy, or if one of these DAS system providers were unable to support our use 30 Table of Contents of its DAS systems, we could experience delays in construction of these DAS systems which could delay our launch of new metropolitan areas, including the Auction 66 Markets, delay expansion of certain of our networks, or require us to construct the affected area using traditional cell sites which could result in duplicate or excess costs and could result in substantial delays. Any delay in the launch of new metropolitan areas or in the expansion of service in existing metropolitan areas, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. If we are unable to install our equipment on wireless cell sites or DAS systems, or are unable to renew expiring leases for wireless cell sites or DAS systems on favorable terms or at all, our business and operating results could be adversely impacted. Our base stations are installed on leased cell site facilities or on leased DAS nodes in connection with DAS systems. A significant portion of these cell sites and all DAS systems are leased from a small number of large cell site and DAS system providers under master agreements governing the general terms of our use of that company’s cell sites or DAS systems. If a master agreement with one of these cell site or DAS system providers were to terminate, the cell site or DAS system providers were to experience severe financial difficulties or file for bankruptcy, or if one of these cell site or DAS system providers were unable to support our use of its cell sites or DAS systems, we would have to find new sites or rebuild the affected portion of our network. In addition, the concentration of our cell site leases and DAS systems with a limited number of cell site and DAS system providers could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition if we are unable to renew our expiring leases or DAS system agreements with these companies either on terms comparable to those we have today or at all. In addition, the tower industry has continued to consolidate. If any of the companies from which we lease towers or DAS systems were to consolidate with other tower or DAS systems companies, they may have the ability to raise prices which could materially affect our profitability. If a material number of cell sites or DAS systems were no longer available for our use, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. We may be delayed in starting operations in the Auction 66 Markets because the incumbent licensees may have unreasonable demands for relocation or may refuse to relocate. The spectrum allocated for AWS currently is utilized by a variety of categories of existing licensees (Broadband Radio Service, Fixed Service) as well as governmental users. The FCC rules provide that a portion of the money raised in Auction 66 will be used to reimburse the relocation costs of certain governmental users from the AWS band. However, not all governmental users are obligated to relocate. To foster the relocation of non-governmental incumbent licensees, the FCC also adopted a transition and cost sharing plan under which incumbent users can be reimbursed for relocating out of the AWS band with the costs of relocation being shared by AWS licensees benefiting from the relocation. The FCC has established rules requiring the new AWS licensee and the non-governmental incumbent user to negotiate voluntarily for up to three years before the non-governmental incumbent licensee is subject to mandatory relocation. If any federal government user delays or refuses to relocate out of the AWS band in a metropolitan area where we have been granted a license, we may be delayed or prevented from serving certain geographic areas or customers within the metropolitan area and such inability may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and our future prospects. In addition, if any of the incumbent users refuse to voluntarily relocate, we may be delayed in using the AWS spectrum granted to us and such delay may have a material adverse effect on our ability to serve the metropolitan areas, our financial performance, and our future prospects. One government incumbent user is the United States Department of Defense, or DoD. On November 19, 2007, the DoD Joint Spectrum Center, the organization charged with evaluating whether use of AWS spectrum interferes with incumbent DoD uses, or JSC, notified us that our use of the AWS spectrum in Philadelphia, Boston, and Los Angeles metropolitan areas would interfere with existing DoD systems and therefore we would not be permitted to use our AWS spectrum in advance of the current DoD relocation schedules. The company has requested, and the DoD has agreed, to review the interference analyses upon which the denial was based. As of the date of this report, the JSC has not completed its review. If the JSC concludes that our use of the AWS spectrum in these metropolitan areas will cause interference to incumbent DoD systems, we could be delayed from using the AWS spectrum in these metropolitan areas, and our launch of service in Philadelphia and Boston could be delayed, as much as 36 months or more. 31 Table of Contents We may not achieve the customer penetration levels in our Core and Expansion Markets that we currently believe are possible with our business model. Our ability to achieve the customer penetration levels that we currently believe are possible with our business model in our Core and Expansion Markets is subject to a number of risks, including: • increased competition from existing competitors or new competitors; • higher than anticipated churn in our Core and Expansion Markets; • our inability to increase our network capacity in areas we currently cover and plan to cover in the Core and Expansion Markets to meet growing customer demand; • our inability to continue to offer products or services which our current or prospective customers want; • our inability to increase the relevant coverage areas in our Core and Expansion Markets in areas or expand our roaming arrangements to areas that are important to our current and prospective customers; • changes in the demographics of our Core and Expansion Markets; and • adverse changes in the regulatory environment that may limit our ability to grow our customer base. If we are unable to achieve the aggregate levels of customer penetration that we currently believe are possible with our business model in our Core and Expansion Markets, our ability to continue to grow our customer base and revenues at the rates we currently expect may be limited. Any failure to achieve the penetration levels we currently believe are possible may have a material adverse impact on our future financial results and operations. Furthermore, any inability to increase our overall level of market penetration in our Core and Expansion Markets, as well as any inability to achieve similar customer penetration levels in other metropolitan areas we launch in the future, could adversely impact the market price of our 91/4% senior notes due 2014 and stock and may inhibit our ability to repay our indebtedness. We and Royal Street may incur significant costs in our build out and launch of new markets and we may incur operating losses in those markets for an undetermined period of time. We and Royal Street have invested and expect to continue to invest a significant amount of capital to build systems that will adequately cover our Expansion Markets, and we and Royal Street will incur operating losses in each of these markets for an undetermined period of time. We also anticipate having to spend and invest a significant amount of capital to build systems and operate networks in any new metropolitan areas we plan to build, including the Auction 66 Markets, and expect that we will also incur operating losses in each of these markets for an undetermined period of time. We and Royal Street may have insufficient spectrum in our existing and new markets to meet customer demand or to offer new services that our competitors may be able to offer. Most national wireless carriers have greater spectrum capacity than we do that can be used to support third generation, or 3G, and fourth generation, or 4G, services. These national wireless carriers are currently investing substantial capital to deploy the necessary capital equipment to deliver 3G enhanced services. We and Royal Street have licenses for less than 20 MHz of spectrum in certain of our markets, which is significantly less than most of the wireless carriers with whom we and Royal Street compete. This limited spectrum may require Royal Street and us to secure more cell sites to provide equivalent service (including data services based on EV-DO technology), spend greater capital compared to Royal Street’s and our competitors’, deploy more expensive network equipment, such as six-sector antennas, EV-DO Revision A with VoIP, or LTE sooner than our competitors, or require us to use DAS systems or make us more dependent on improvements in handsets, such as EVRC-B or 4G capable handsets. Royal Street’s and our limited spectrum may also limit Royal Street’s and our ability to support our growth plans or new services without additional technology improvements and/or spectrum, and may make Royal Street and us more reliant on technology advances than our competitors. There is no guarantee we and Royal Street can secure adequate tower sites or additional spectrum or can have access to DAS systems or that expected technology improvements will be available to support Royal Street’s and our business requirements or that the cost of such technology improvements will allow Royal Street and us to remain competitive with other carriers. There also is no guarantee 32 Table of Contents that the operations in the Royal Street metropolitan areas, which are based on a wholesale model, will be profitable or successful. We may incur higher than anticipated intercarrier compensation costs, which could increase our costs and reduce our profit margin. When our customers use our service to call customers of other carriers, we may be required to pay the carrier that serves the called party and any intermediary or transit carrier for the use of their networks. The FCC has previously determined that certain unilateral tariffed termination charges imposed prior to April 2005 may be appropriate. Some carriers have claimed a right to unilaterally impose charges on us that we consider to be unreasonably high and have threatened to pursue or have initiated claims against us for termination payments. The outcome of these claims is uncertain. A determination that we are liable for additional terminating compensation payments could subject us to additional claims by other carriers. Further, legal restrictions may inhibit our ability or willingness to block traffic to telecommunication carriers who may request unreasonable payment. In addition, certain transit carriers have taken the position that they can charge “market” rates for transit services, which may in some instances be significantly higher than our current rates. We may be obligated to pay these higher rates and/or purchase services from others or engage in direct connection, which may result in higher costs which could materially affect our costs and financial results. We may not have access to all the funding necessary to build and operate new metropolitan areas, including our Auction 66 Markets, or to participate in future FCC auctions, and we may be required to sell additional equity or borrow additional amounts, which amounts may be material. We need to generate significant excess operating cash flow from our operations in our current operating markets in order to construct and operate any new metropolitan areas we decide to build, including the Auction 66 Markets. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” If our current cash and excess internally generated cash flows are insufficient to fund the build out of our planned metropolitan areas, we may be forced to sell additional equity, seek additional debt financing, or delay our construction. In addition, the FCC from time to time auctions additional spectrum which may be of interest to us. We have filed an application to participate in the FCC’s auction of 700 MHz spectrum designated as Auction 73 and were found by the FCC to be qualified to bid in the auction. If we decide to participate in such auctions, we may decide to purchase spectrum in existing or new metropolitan areas that cost in excess of the amount of our existing cash reserves. We may fund such excess purchase price from excess operating cash flows, from the sale of additional equity, or from borrowing of additional amounts. The covenants under our senior secured credit facility and the indenture covering the new notes may prevent us from incurring additional debt to fund the construction and operation of new metropolitan areas, including our Auction 66 Markets, and acquisition of additional spectrum at auctions, or may prevent us from securing such funds on suitable terms or in accordance with our preferred construction timetable. Further, we may not be able to sell any such equity or incur any additional debt on terms acceptable to us or at all. We may be unable to acquire additional spectrum in the future at a reasonable cost. Because we offer unlimited calling services for a fixed fee, our customers tend, on average, to use our services more than the customers of other wireless carriers. We believe that the average amount of use our customers generate may continue to rise. We intend to meet this demand by utilizing spectrum-efficient state-of-the-art technologies, such as six-sector cell site technology, EV-DO Revision A with VoIP, LTE, EVRC-B or 4G handsets and intelligent antennas. Nevertheless, in the future we may need to acquire additional spectrum in order to maintain our quality of service and to meet increasing customer demands. However, we cannot be sure that additional spectrum will be made available by the FCC on terms and conditions or under service rules that we consider to be suitable for our commercial uses on a timely basis or that we will be able to acquire additional spectrum at a reasonable cost. For example, there have been recent actions by the FCC that impose conditions on the use of certain broadband spectrum (e.g., build-out requirements, open access requirements, etc.) that make it less attractive to or less economical for us. If the additional spectrum is unavailable on reasonable terms and conditions when needed or unavailable at a reasonable cost, we may not be able to offer new services, we could lose customers or revenues, which could be material, and our ability to grow our customer base may be materially adversely affected. 33 Table of Contents The value of our licenses may drop in the future as a result of volatility in the marketplace and the sale of additional spectrum by the FCC. The market value of FCC licenses has been subject to significant volatility in the past and the FCC has and may continue to auction additional substantial amounts of spectrum. The impact of these future auctions on license values is uncertain. There can be no assurance of the market value of our FCC licenses or that the market value of our FCC licenses will not be volatile in the future. If the value of our licenses were to decline significantly, we could be forced to record non-cash impairment charges which could impact our ability to borrow additional funds. A significant impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our operating income and on the carrying value of our licenses on our balance sheet. We are currently subject to the FCC’s anti-collusion rule, and may in the future become subject to the FCC’s anti-collusion rule, in connection with other FCC auctions which may preclude us from engaging in certain activities. Whenever we submit an application to participate in an auction of spectrum held by the FCC we become subject to the FCC’s anti-collusion rule. We have submitted an application to participate in the 700 MHz auction designated as Auction 73 and were found by the FCC to be qualified to bid in the auction. As a result, applicable FCC rules place certain restrictions on business communications with other applicants. For example, the FCC has indicated that discussions with other carriers regarding roaming agreements, the partitioning of markets or the disaggregation of spectrum, or the acquisition of licenses or licensees, may implicate the anti-collusion rule if both parties to the discussions are competing applicants in the auction and, in the course of the discussions, the parties exchange information pertaining to or affecting their bids, bidding strategy or the post-auction market structure. These anti-collusion restrictions may affect the normal conduct of our business by inhibiting discussions and the conclusion of beneficial transactions with other carriers from the time applications are due until after the conclusion of the auction, which time period could be substantial. Failure to comply with the anti-collusion rule may subject us, among other things, to fines and forfeitures and possible loss of any licenses in which we were the high bidder. If we are unable to manage our planned growth effectively, our costs could increase and our level of service could be adversely affected. We have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to continue to experience substantial growth in the future. Previously, we failed to adequately implement financial controls and management systems. We publicly acknowledged deficiencies in our financial reporting as early as August 2004, and have made changes in our controls and systems that are designed to address these deficiencies. Our expected growth will also require stringent control of costs, diligent management of our network infrastructure and our growth, increased capital requirements, increased costs associated with marketing activities, the ability to attract and retain qualified management, technical and sales personnel and the training and management of new personnel, and the design and implementation of financial and management controls. Our growth will challenge the capacity and abilities of existing employees and future employees at all levels of our business and the controls and systems we have implemented. Failure to successfully manage our expected growth and development could have a material adverse effect on our business, increase our costs and adversely affect our level of service. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from geographic areas susceptible to natural and other disasters. Our markets in California, Texas and Florida contribute a substantial amount of revenue, operating cash flows, and net income to our operations. These same states, however, have a history of natural disasters which may adversely affect our operations in those states. In addition, the major metropolitan areas in which we operate, or plan to operate, could be the target of terrorist attacks. These events may cause our networks to cease operating for a substantial period of time while we reconstruct them and our competitors may be less affected by such natural disasters or terrorist attacks. If our networks cease operating for any substantial period of time, we may lose revenue and customers, and may have difficulty attracting new customers in the future, which could materially adversely affect our operations. Although we have business interruption insurance which we believe is adequate, we cannot provide any assurance that the insurance will cover all losses we may experience as a result of a natural disaster or terrorist attack, that the insurance carrier will be solvent or that the insurance carrier will pay all claims made by us. The investment of our substantial cash balances are subject to risks which may cause losses. We can and have historically invested our substantial cash balances in, among other things, securities issued and fully guaranteed by the United States or any state, highly rated commercial paper and auction rate securities, money 34 Table of Contents market funds meeting certain criteria, and demand deposits. These investments are subject to credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risk. For example, we have made investments of $133.9 million in certain auction rate securities, which had AAA credit ratings at the time of purchase, some of which are secured by collateralized debt obligations with a portion of the underlying collateral being mortgage securities or related to mortgage securities. Three auction rate securities held by us have been placed on credit watch. As a result of the lack of liquidity in the global credit and capital markets, these auction rate securities failed to attract a buyer at scheduled auctions. As a result, these auction rate securities are illiquid and we have recognized a loss of approximately $97.8 million on these investments for the year ended December 31, 2007 and we may recognize additional losses in the future if uncertainties in these markets continue, these markets deteriorate further, or the Company experiences any ratings downgrades on investments in its portfolio (including the auction rate securities). Such risks, including the continued failure of future auctions for the auction rate securities, may result in a loss of liquidity, substantial impairment to our investments, realization of substantial future losses, or a complete loss of the investment in the long-term which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel, and the loss of one or more members of our management, including our chief executive officer, could have a negative impact on our business. Our business is managed by a small number of key executive officers, including our chief executive officer, Roger Linquist. The loss of one or more of these persons could disrupt our ability to react quickly to business developments and changes in market conditions, which could harm our financial results. To provide adequate timing for succession planning, we have begun a search for a new chief executive officer. None of our managing key executives has an employment contract, so any such executive officers may leave at any time subject to forfeiture of any unpaid performance awards and any unvested options. We believe that our future success will also depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified executive, technical and management personnel. We believe competition for highly qualified management, technical and sales personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will retain our key management, technical and sales employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining other highly qualified management, technical and sales personnel in the future sufficient to support our continued growth. We have occasionally experienced difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel and there can be no assurance that we will not experience such difficulties in the future. The departure or retirement of, or our inability to attract or retain, highly qualified executive, technical and management personnel, including the chief executive officer, could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial performance, and stock price. The Department of Justice has informally stated that it would carefully scrutinize any statement by us in support of any future efforts by us to acquire divestiture assets and as a result we may have difficulty acquiring spectrum in this manner in the future. We acquired the PCS spectrum for the Dallas/Ft. Worth and Detroit Expansion Markets from Cingular Wireless as a result of a consent decree entered into between Cingular Wireless, AT&T Wireless and the United States Department of Justice, or the DOJ. When we acquired the spectrum, we communicated certain expectations for our use of the spectrum to the DOJ, including expectations regarding constructing a combined 1xRTT/EV-DO network on the spectrum capable of supporting data services. Although we constructed a combined 1xRTT/EV-DO network in those markets, we expected to be able to support our services as demand increased by upgrading the networks to an EV-DO Revision A with VoIP when available. As a result of a delay in the availability of EV-DO Revision A with VoIP, we contacted the DOJ to inform them that we had determined that it was necessary for us to redeploy the EV-DO network assets at certain cell sites in those markets to 1xRTT CDMA in order to serve our existing customers. The DOJ requested certain information regarding our construction of our network facilities in these markets, our use of EV-DO, and the services we are providing in the Dallas/Ft. Worth and Detroit Expansion Markets. We responded to the initial DOJ request and subsequent follow-up requests. On March 23, 2007, the DOJ sent us a letter in which they stated that the DOJ would carefully scrutinize any statement by us in support of any future efforts by us to acquire divestiture assets. This may make it more difficult for us to acquire any spectrum in the future which may be available as a result of a divestiture required by the DOJ. This also does not preclude the DOJ from taking any further action against us with respect to this matter. We cannot predict at this time whether the DOJ will pursue this matter any further and, if they do, what actions they may take or what the outcome may be. 35 Table of Contents A recent ruling from the Copyright Office of the Library of Congress may have an adverse effect on our distribution strategy. Many carriers, including us, routinely place software locks on wireless handsets, which prevent a customer from using a wireless handset sold by one carrier on another carrier’s system. The Copyright Office of the Library of Congress determined that a person could circumvent such software locks and other firmware that enable wireless handsets to connect to a wireless telephone network when such circumvention is accomplished for the sole purpose of lawfully connecting the wireless handset to another wireless telephone network. This determination may allow our customers who are dissatisfied with our service to utilize the services of our competitors without having to purchase a new handset. The ability of our customers to leave our service and use their wireless handsets on other carriers’ networks may have an adverse material impact on our business. In addition, since we provide a subsidy for handsets to our distribution partners that are incurred in advance, we may experience higher distribution costs resulting from wireless handsets not being activated or maintained on our network, which costs may be material. Concerns about whether wireless telephones pose health and safety risks may lead to the adoption of new regulations, to lawsuits and to a decrease in demand for our services, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues. Media reports and some studies have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets are linked to various health concerns, including cancer, or interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Additional studies have been undertaken to determine whether the suggestions from those reports and studies are accurate. In addition, lawsuits have been filed against other participants in the wireless industry alleging various adverse health consequences as a result of wireless phone usage. While many of these lawsuits have been dismissed on various grounds, including a lack of scientific evidence linking wireless handsets with such adverse health consequences, future lawsuits could be filed based on new evidence or in different jurisdictions. If any such suits do succeed, or if plaintiffs are successful in negotiating settlements, it is likely additional suits would be filed. In addition to health concerns, safety concerns have been raised with respect to the use of wireless handsets while driving. Certain states and municipalities in which we provide service or plan to provide service have passed laws prohibiting the use of wireless phones while driving or requiring the use of wireless headsets and other states and municipalities may do so in the future. If state and local governments in areas where we conduct business adopt regulations restricting the use of wireless handsets while driving, we could experience reduced demand for our services. If consumers’ health concerns over radio frequency emissions increase, consumers may be discouraged from using wireless handsets, regulators may impose restrictions or increased requirements on the location and operation of cell sites, the use or design of wireless telephones, or may require that all wireless telephones include an earpiece that would enable the use of wireless telephones without holding them against the user’s head. Such legislation or regulation could increase the cost of our wireless handsets and other operating expenses, or could expose wireless providers to further litigation, which, even if not successful, may be costly to defend. In addition, compliance with such new requirements, and the associated costs, could adversely affect our business. The actual or perceived risk of radio frequency emissions could adversely affect us through a reduction in customers or a reduction in the availability of financing in the future. A system failure could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers. To be successful, we must provide our customers reliable service. Some of the risks to our network and infrastructure which may prevent us from providing reliable service include: • physical damage to outside plant facilities; • power surges or outages; • equipment failure; • vendor or supplier failures; • software defects; • human error; 36 Table of Contents • disruptions beyond our control, including disruptions caused by terrorist activities, theft, or natural disasters; and • failures in operational support systems. Network disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and incur expenses. Further, our costs to replace or repair the network may be substantial, thus causing our costs to provide service to increase. We may also experience higher churn as our competitors systems may not experience similar problems. Unauthorized use of, or interference with, our network could disrupt service and increase our costs. We may incur costs associated with the unauthorized use of our network including administrative and capital costs associated with detecting, monitoring and reducing the incidence of fraud. Fraudulent use of our network may impact interconnection and long distance costs, capacity costs, administrative costs, fraud prevention costs and payments to other carriers for fraudulent roaming. Such increased costs could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Security breaches related to our physical facilities, computer networks, and informational databases may cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our physical facilities and information systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, theft, attacks by hackers, or similar disruptive problems. If hackers gain improper access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential personal information concerning our subscribers. In addition, misuse of our customer information could result in more substantial harm perpetrated by third-parties. This could damage our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters We are dependent on our FCC licenses, and our ability to provide service to our customers and generate revenues could be harmed by adverse regulatory action or changes which may affect our licenses. Some of our principal assets are our FCC licenses which we use to provide our services. Our FCC licenses are subject to revocation if the FCC finds we are not in compliance with its rules or the Communications Act’s requirements. In addition, a failure to comply with these requirements or the FCC’s construction requirements could result in revocation or termination of our licenses or in the loss of rights to serve unbuilt areas. The loss or impairment of any of these licenses and/or fines and forfeitures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to significant federal and state regulation, changes in which could have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial results. The FCC and state and local agencies regulate many aspects of our business. These regulatory agencies have and may in the future adopt regulations or legal restrictions or take other actions that could adversely affect our business by imposing new costs, requiring changes in our current or planned operations, slowing our growth, requiring us to change the way we do business, or requiring us to make additional investments, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition, a material failure to comply with FCC or statutory requirements may limit our ability to draw certain amounts under our senior secured credit facility or could result in a default under our credit facility. The structure of the transaction with Royal Street creates risks because Royal Street may be required to pay back credits received in the grant of its open licenses or forfeit closed licenses. Royal Street acquired its PCS licenses as a very small business designated entity, or DE. As a result, Royal Street received a bidding credit equal to approximately $94 million for its “open” PCS licenses and was granted certain “closed” licenses in Florida in which DEs were the only qualified applicants. Certain recent regulatory developments pertaining to the DE program indicate that the FCC plans to be proactive in assuring that DEs strictly abide by the FCC’s control requirements. Subject to certain non-controlling investor protections in Royal Street 37 Table of Contents Communications’ limited liability company agreement, C9 has control over the operations of Royal Street because it has the right to elect three of the five members of Royal Street Communications’ management committee, which have the full power to direct the management of Royal Street. However, the Royal Street business plan may become so closely aligned with our business plan that there is a risk the FCC may find Royal Street to have relinquished control over its licenses to us in violation of FCC requirements. Recently the FCC made changes to the DE rules. The FCC concluded that certain relationships between a DE licensee and its investors would in the future be deemed impermissible material relationships based on a new FCC view that these relationships, by their very nature, are generally inconsistent with an applicant’s or licensee’s ability to achieve or maintain designated entity eligibility and inconsistent with Congress’ legislative intent. The FCC cited wholesale service arrangements as an example of an impermissible material relationship, but indicated that previously approved arrangements of this nature would be allowed to continue. Further, the FCC has opened a Notice of Further Proposed Rulemaking seeking to determine what additional changes, if any, may be required or appropriate to its DE program. While the FCC has grandfathered the existing arrangements between Royal Street and us, there can be no assurance that any changes that may be required of those arrangements in the future will not cause the FCC to determine that the changes would trigger the loss of DE eligibility for Royal Street. If the FCC were to determine that Royal Street has failed to exercise the requisite control over its licenses and lost its status as a DE, Royal Street would be required to repay the FCC the amount of the bidding credit on a five-year straight-line basis beginning on the grant date of the license, which was December 2005, and it could lose some or all of the licenses only available to DEs which have not yet been constructed, which includes several of its licenses in Florida. If Royal Street lost those licenses or was required to repay the bidding credits it received, it could have a material and adverse effect on us. Royal Street owns certain licenses which we do not control and which may never be sold to us. Our agreements with Royal Street Communications allow us in accordance with applicable laws and regulations to actively participate in the development of the Royal Street licenses and networks, and we have the right to purchase, on a wholesale basis, 85% of the engineered capacity provided by the Royal Street systems and to resell those services on a retail basis under our brand. We, however, do not control Royal Street or the Royal Street licenses. C9, an unaffiliated third party, has the ability to put to us, or require us to purchase through June 2012, all or part of its ownership interest in Royal Street Communications to us, but we have no corresponding right to call, or require C9 to sell, its ownership interest in Royal Street Communications to us. C9 may not exercise its put rights or, if it does, we do not know when such exercise may occur. Further, the FCC’s rules restrict our ability to acquire or control Royal Street licenses during the period that Royal Street must maintain its eligibility as a very small business designated entity, or DE, which is currently through December 2010. Thus, we cannot be certain that the Royal Street licenses will be developed in a manner fully consistent with our business plan or that C9 will act in ways that benefit us. We may not be able to continue to offer our services if the FCC does not renew our licenses when they expire. We must periodically renew our FCC licenses. Renewal applications are subject to FCC review and potentially public comment to ensure that licensees meet their licensing requirements and comply with other applicable FCC mandates. If we fail to file for renewal of any particular license at the appropriate time or fail to meet any regulatory requirements for renewal, including construction and substantial service requirements, we could be denied a license renewal. In addition, many of our licenses are subject to interim or final construction requirements and there is no guarantee that the FCC will find our construction sufficient to meet the applicable construction requirement. If the FCC finds that our construction is insufficient, the FCC could terminate our license. For all PCS and AWS licenses, the FCC also requires that a licensee provide substantial service in order to receive a renewal expectancy. There is no guarantee that the FCC will find our or the prior licensees’ system construction sufficient to meet any build out requirement or construction requirements for renewal. Additionally, while incumbent licensees enjoy a certain renewal expectancy if they provide substantial service, there is no guarantee that the FCC will conclude that we are providing substantial service, that we are entitled to a renewal expectancy, or will renew all or any of our licenses, or that the FCC will not grant the renewal with conditions. Any termination of a license, failure to renew, or imposition of conditions could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 38 Table of Contents We are subject to numerous surcharges and fees from federal, state and local governments, and the applicability and amount of these fees is subject to great uncertainty and may prove to be material to our financial results. Telecommunications providers pay a variety of surcharges and fees on their gross revenues from interstate and intrastate services, including federal Universal Service Fund fees and common carrier regulatory fees. The division of our services between interstate services and intrastate services, including the divisions associated with the federal Universal Services Fund fees, is a matter of interpretation and may in the future be contested by the FCC or state authorities. The Federal government and many states also apply transaction-based taxes to sales of our products and services and to our purchases of telecommunications services from various carriers. In addition, state regulators and local governments have imposed and may continue to impose surcharges, taxes and fees on our services and the applicability of these surcharges and fees to our services is uncertain in many cases and jurisdictions may argue as to whether we have correctly assessed and remitted those monies. Periodically state and federal regulators may increase or change the surcharges and fees we currently pay. In some instances we pass through these charges to our customers. However, Congress, the FCC, state regulatory agencies or state legislatures also may preclude our ability to pass through transaction based tax liabilities, regulatory surcharges and regulatory fees imposed on us to our customers. We may or may not be able to recover some or all of those taxes from our customers and the amount of taxes may deter demand for our services or increase our cost to provide service which could have a material adverse effect in our business, results of operation or financial results. Spectrum for which we have been granted licenses as a result of AWS Auction 66 is subject to certain legal challenges, which may ultimately result in the FCC revoking our licenses. We have paid the full purchase price of approximately $1.4 billion to the FCC for the licenses we were granted as a result of Auction 66, even though there are ongoing uncertainties regarding some aspects of the final auction rules as it relates to DE participation in the auction. Several interested parties filed an appeal in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit on June 7, 2006, of the DE auction rules seeking to overturn the results of Auction 66. On September 28, 2007, the Court dismissed the case. The petitioners filed a petition for reconsideration of the court’s order which has been denied. We do not know whether the parties will further appeal the Court’s ruling and we are unable at this time to predict the likely outcome of any further court action. If the court overturns the results of Auction 66, we could lose our Auction 66 Market licenses, we would not be reimbursed for our efforts to clear or build the spectrum, but we could receive a refund of our auction amounts. In addition, there could be a delay in us receiving a refund of our payments until the appeal is final. In such instance, we may be forced to pay interest on the payments made to the FCC without receiving any interest on such payments from the FCC. If the results of Auction 66 were overturned and we receive a refund, the delay in the return of our money, the interest we would have incurred without reimbursement, the loss of any amounts spent to develop the licenses in the interim, and the loss of the ability to provide service in the Auction 66 Markets, may materially and adversely affect our financial results and our business plan. The requirements of the FCC Order Implementing the Independent Panel on Hurricane Katrina may have a material financial or operational impact on our financial results and operations. The FCC has recently adopted a requirement that wireless carriers maintain emergency back-up power for a minimum of twenty-four hours for assets that are normally powered from local commercial power and located inside mobile switching offices, and eight hours for assets that are normally powered from local commercial power and at other locations, including cell sites and DAS nodes. The back-up power requirement has not yet taken effect, and the date on which it will take effect is uncertain. When the rule takes effect, we will not be required to comply with these minimum backup power requirements where we can demonstrate that such compliance is precluded by certain exceptions. To the extent we are required to comply with these requirements, we may find it necessary to file a waiver with the FCC seeking relief from these requirements or additional time to comply. We can give no assurance that the FCC will grant any such relief. If we are required to comply with these requirements we may have to purchase additional equipment, spend additional capital, seek and receive additional state and local permits, authorizations and approvals, and incur additional operating expenses and such costs could be material. In addition, we may be unable to comply with these requirements and we could be forced to cease operations from some locations or be subject to fines and forfeitures and other adverse licensing actions from the FCC. Further, the requirement to install these back up power facilities could also adversely affect our operations by distracting management and engineering resources from the maintenance and growth of our existing networks or new metropolitan areas, such as the Auction 66 Markets, which could have a material adverse impact on our operations and delay a launch of service in such areas. Finally, a material failure to comply with these requirements may limit 39 Table of Contents our ability to draw certain amounts under our existing senior secured credit facility or could result in a default under our 91/4% senior notes due 2014. The FCC may adopt rules requiring new point-to-multipoint emergency alert capabilities that would require us to make costly investments in new network equipment and consumer handsets. Congress recently passed the Warning, Alert, and Response Network Act, or the Act, which requires the FCC to adopt, relevant technical standards, protocols, procedures and other technical requirements based on such recommendations necessary to enable alerting capability for commercial mobile radio service, or CMRS, providers that voluntarily elect to transmit emergency alerts. Under the Act, a CMRS carrier can elect not to participate in providing such alerting capability. If a CMRS carrier elects to participate, the carrier may not charge separately for the alerting capability. Until the FCC completes its rulemaking, we do not know what requirements it may adopt and what their impact will be on our network and service. Adoption of such requirements and our election to provide or not provide this service, however, could require us to purchase new or additional equipment and may also require consumers to purchase new handsets. General Matters Until our initial public offering in April 2007, there was no market for our common stock and our stock price may be volatile. Prior to the consummation of our initial public offering in April 2007, our common stock was not listed on a national exchange or publicly traded. As a company which recently has become listed on a national exchange, the price at which our common stock trades is likely to be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially because of a number of factors, such as: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our or our competitors operating and financial results; • changes in or our failure to meet securities analysts’ expectations; • entry of new competitors into our markets; • introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors or changes in service plans or pricing by us or our competitors, including the introduction of unlimited fixed-rate plans by our competitors; • significant developments with respect to intellectual property rights or litigation; • conditions and trends in the communications and high technology markets; • volatility in stock market prices and volumes, which is particularly common among securities of telecommunications companies; • the general state of the U.S. and world economies; • the announcement, commencement, bidding and closing of auctions for new spectrum or acquisitions of other businesses; and • actions occurring in and the outcome of litigation between Leap and us and Freedom Wireless and us. In addition, in recent months, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the trading price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in the telecommunications industry. The changes frequently occur irrespective of the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the trading price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our business or its performance. 40 Table of Contents We are currently controlled by a limited number of stockholders, and their interests may be different from yours. A significant portion of the voting power of our capital stock is concentrated in the hands of a few shareholders some of which are members of our board of directors. TA Associates and Madison Dearborn Capital Partners, and Mr. Roger D. Linquist, our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board, are significant stockholders of the Company and each have representatives or are on our board of directors. Stockholders holding over 10% of the voting power also hold collectively in excess of 21% of the voting power of our capital stock. As a result, if such persons act together, they will have the ability to significantly influence whether required consents can be obtained and will have substantial control over all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and the approval of any merger, consolidation or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. These stockholders may have different interests than the other holders of our common stock and may make decisions that are adverse to your interests. Our stockholder rights plan could prevent a change in control of our Company in instances in which some stockholders may believe a change in control is in their best interests. We have a stockholder rights plan, or Rights Plan. Pursuant to the Rights Plan, we have issued to our stockholders one preferred stock purchase right for each outstanding share of our common stock as of March 27, 2007. Each right, when exercisable, will entitle its holder to purchase from us a unit consisting of one one-thousandth of a share of series A junior participating preferred stock at $66.67 per share. Our Rights Plan is intended to protect stockholders in the event of an unfair or coercive offer to acquire our Company and to provide our board of directors with adequate time to evaluate unsolicited offers. The Rights Plan may prevent or make takeovers or unsolicited corporate transactions more difficult. The Rights Plan will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms that our board of directors does not believe are in our best interests and those of our stockholders and may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. Conflicts of interest may arise because some of our directors are principals of our stockholders, and we have waived our rights to certain corporate opportunities. Our board of directors includes representatives from Accel Partners, TA Associates, Madison Dearborn Capital Partners and Wachovia. Those stockholders and their respective affiliates may invest in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us or companies in which they are currently invested may already compete with us. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of those stockholders or their respective affiliates and the interests of our other stockholders arise, these directors may not be disinterested. Under Delaware law, transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest are generally permissible so long as (1) the material facts relating to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our board of directors and a majority of our disinterested directors approves the transaction, (2) the material facts relating to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our stockholders and a majority of our disinterested stockholders approves the transaction, or (3) the transaction is otherwise fair to us. Also, pursuant to the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our non-employee directors, including the representatives from Accel Partners, TA Associates, Madison Dearborn Capital Partners and Wachovia, are not required to offer us any corporate opportunity of which they become aware and could take any such opportunity for themselves or offer it to other companies in which they have an investment, unless such opportunity is expressly offered to them in their capacity as a director of our Company. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware corporate law contain provisions which could delay or prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Delaware law, as well as our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, even if it were beneficial to our stockholders to do so. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions: • authorize the issuance of preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval to increase the number of outstanding shares and deter or prevent a takeover attempt; 41 Table of Contents • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • require stockholder meetings to be called only by the President or at the written request of a majority of the directors then in office and not the stockholders; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • provide that our board of directors is divided into three classes, each serving three-year terms; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes restrictions on business combinations such as mergers between us and a holder of 15% or more of our voting stock. See “Description of Capital Stock — Anti-Takeover Effects of Delaware Law and Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Restated Bylaws.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 