1A. Risk Factors Described below are certain risks that we believe are applicable to our business and the oil and gas industry in which we operate. You should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below and all other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Also, you should be aware that the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, of which we are not yet aware, or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. Prices and markets for oil and natural gas are unpredictable and tend to fluctuate significantly, which could reduce profitability, growth and the value of our business. Oil and natural gas are commodities, the prices of which are determined based on world demand, supply and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. These factors include: ·the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; ·the current level of prices and expectations about future prices of oil and natural gas; ·the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production; ·the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; ·the price of foreign oil and natural gas imports; ·political and economic conditions in oil producing regions, including the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia; ·the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; ·speculative trading in oil and natural gas derivative contracts; ·the level of consumer product demand; ·weather conditions and other natural disasters; ·risks associated with operating drilling rigs; ·technological advances affecting energy consumption; ·domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; ·the continued threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other action, including U.S. military operations in the Middle East; ·the availability, proximity and capacity of oil and natural gas transportation, processing, storage and refining facilities; ·the price and availability of alternative fuels; and ·overall domestic and global economic conditions. World prices for oil and natural gas have fluctuated widely in recent years, and we expect that prices will fluctuate in the future. Price fluctuations will have a significant impact upon our revenue, the return from our reserves and on our financial condition generally. Price fluctuations for oil and natural gas commodities may also impact the investment market for companies engaged in the oil and natural gas industry. Prices may not remain at current levels. Decreases in the prices of oil and natural gas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, the future results of our operations and quantities of reserves recoverable on an economic basis. A significant decrease in oil and natural gas prices could also adversely impact our ability to raise additional capital to pursue future drilling activities. Our identified potential drilling locations, which are part of our anticipated future drilling plans, are susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. As of December 31, 2013, we have identified approximately 465 net potential drilling locations on our acreage prospective for oil in the Bakken, Three Forks and Pronghorn Sand formations, based on industry accepted well down-spacing assumptions, including 1,280-acre DSUs in the Williston Basin, and inclusive of pending acreage acquisitions. These drilling locations, including those without proved undeveloped reserves, represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, construction of infrastructure, inclement weather, regulatory changes and approvals, oil and natural gas prices, costs, drilling results and the availability of water. Further, our identified potential drilling locations are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from locations that are ready to drill to locations that will require substantial additional interpretation. We cannot predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular drilling location will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in sufficient quantities to be economically viable. Even if sufficient amounts of oil or natural gas exist, we may damage the potentially productive hydrocarbon bearing formation or experience mechanical difficulties while drilling or completing the well, possibly resulting in a reduction in production from the well or abandonment of the well. If we drill additional wells that we identify as dry holes in our current and future drilling locations, our drilling success rate may decline and materially harm our business. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business. Successful exploitation of the Williston Basin is subject to risks related to horizontal drilling and completion techniques. Operations in the Williston Basin involve utilizing the latest drilling and completion techniques, including horizontal drilling and completion techniques, to generate the highest possible cumulative recoveries and therefore generate the highest possible returns. Risks that are encountered while drilling include, but are not limited to, landing the well bore in the desired drilling zone, staying in the zone while drilling horizontally through the formation, running casing the entire length of the well bore and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal well bore. Completion risks include, but are not limited to, being able to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages, being able to run tools the entire length of the well bore during completion operations, and successfully cleaning out the well bore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. Ultimately, the success of these latest drilling and completion techniques can only be evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are established over a sufficiently long time period. The drilling and completion of a well in the Williston Basin typically costs between $7.5 million and $12.0 million on a gross basis, which is significantly more expensive than a typical onshore conventional well. Accordingly, unsuccessful exploration or development activity affecting even a small number of wells could have a significant impact on our results of operations. Delays in the development of or production curtailment at our material properties may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. The size of our operations and our capital expenditures budget limit the number of properties that we can develop in any given year. Complications in the development of any single major well or infrastructure installation may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, relatively few wells contribute a substantial portion of our production. If we were to experience operational problems or adverse commodity prices resulting in the curtailment of production in any of these wells, our total production levels would be adversely affected, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Williston Basin oil price differential could have adverse impacts on our revenues. Generally, oil produced from the Bakken formation in North Dakota is high quality (characterized by an American Petroleum Institute gravity, or API gravity, between 36 to 44 degrees, which is comparable to West Texas Intermediate, or WTI, oil). However, due to takeaway constraints, oil prices in the Williston Basin ranged from $5.00 to $15.00 less per Bbl than prices for other areas in the United States during 2013. This discount, or differential, may widen in the future, which would reduce the price we would receive for our production. Drilling and completion costs for the wells we drill in the Williston Basin are comparable to other areas where there is no price differential. As a result of this reverse leverage effect, a significant, prolonged downturn in oil prices on a national basis could result in a ceiling limitation write-down of the oil and natural gas properties we hold. Such a price downturn also could reduce cash flow from our Williston Basin properties and adversely impact our ability to participate fully in other drilling. Our production in other areas could also be affected by adverse changes in differentials. In addition, changes in differentials could make it more difficult for us to effectively hedge our exposure to changes in commodity prices. Estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves are uncertain and any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates will materially affect the quantities and the value of our reserves. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves. The estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and the value of our reserves. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. At December 31, 2013, approximately 49% of our estimated reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop our reserves. Although we have prepared estimates of these oil and natural gas reserves and the costs associated with development of these reserves in accordance with SEC regulations, actual capital expenditures will likely vary from estimated capital expenditures, development may not occur as scheduled and actual results may not be as estimated. 9 Exploration for oil and natural gas is risky and may not be commercially successful, and the advanced technologies we and our operating partners use cannot eliminate exploration risk, which could impair our ability to generate revenues from our operations. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploration, development and production program. Oil and natural gas exploration involves a high degree of risk. These risks are more acute in the early stages of exploration. Our ability to generate a return on our investments, revenues and our resulting financial performance are significantly affected by the prices we receive for oil and natural gas produced from wells on our acreage. Especially in recent years, the prices at which oil and natural gas trade in the open market have experienced significant volatility, and will likely continue to fluctuate in the foreseeable future due to a variety of factors. Our expenditures on exploration may not result in new discoveries of oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. It is difficult to project the costs of implementing an exploratory drilling program due to the inherent uncertainties of drilling in unknown formations, the costs associated with encountering various drilling conditions, such as over-pressured zones and tools lost in the hole, and changes in drilling plans and locations as a result of prior exploratory wells or additional seismic data and interpretations thereof. Even when used and properly interpreted, three-dimensional (3-D) seismic data and visualization techniques only assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. These techniques do not allow the interpreter to know conclusively if hydrocarbons are present or economically producible. In addition, the use of 3-D seismic data becomes less reliable when used at increasing depths. We could incur losses as a result of expenditures on unsuccessful wells. If exploration costs exceed estimates, or if exploration efforts do not produce results which meet expectations, the exploration efforts may not be commercially successful, which could adversely impact our ability to generate revenues from our operations. We may not be able to develop oil and natural gas reserves on an economically viable basis, and our reserves and production may decline as a result. If we succeed in discovering oil and natural gas reserves, these reserves may not be capable of the production levels we project or in sufficient quantities to be commercially viable. On a long-term basis, our viability depends on our ability to find or acquire, develop and commercially produce additional oil and natural gas reserves. Without the addition of reserves through acquisition, exploration or development activities, our reserves and production will decline over time as reserves are produced. Our future reserves will depend not only on our ability to develop then-existing properties, but also on our operating partners’ ability to identify and acquire additional suitable producing properties or prospects, to find markets for the oil and natural gas we may develop and to effectively distribute our production. Future oil and natural gas exploration may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Completion of a well does not assure a profit on the investment or recovery of drilling, completion and operating costs. In addition, drilling hazards or environmental damage could greatly increase the cost of operations, and various field operating conditions may adversely affect the production from successful wells. These conditions include delays in obtaining governmental approvals or consents, shut-ins of connected wells resulting from extreme weather conditions, problems in storage and distribution and adverse geological and mechanical conditions. We will not be able to completely eliminate these conditions completely in any case. Therefore, these conditions could diminish our revenue and cash flow levels and result in the impairment of our oil and natural gas interests. We may not be able to drill wells on a substantial portion of our acreage. We may not be able to drill on a substantial portion of our acreage for various reasons. We may not generate or be able to raise sufficient capital to do so. Future deterioration in commodities pricing may also make drilling some acreage uneconomic. Our actual drilling activities and future drilling budget will depend on drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, regulatory approvals and other factors. In addition, any drilling activities we are able to conduct may not be successful or add additional proved reserves to our overall proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage. A large portion of our acreage is not currently held by production. Unless production in paying quantities is established on units containing these leases during their terms, these leases will expire. If our leases expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. Our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change based upon various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, and regulatory approvals. Further, some of our acreage is located in sections where we do not hold the majority of the acreage and therefore it is likely that we will not be named operator of these sections. On our acreage that we do not operate, we have less control over the timing of drilling and there is therefore additional risk of expirations occurring in those sections. Shortages of equipment, services and qualified personnel could reduce our cash flow and adversely affect results of operations. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers, and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices and activity levels in new regions, causing periodic shortages. These problems can be particularly severe in certain regions such as the Williston Basin. During periods of high oil and natural gas prices, the demand for drilling rigs and equipment has increased along with increased activity levels, which may result in shortages of equipment. In addition, there has been a shortage of hydraulic fracturing capacity in many of the areas in which we operate. This shortage in hydraulic fracturing capacity could occur in the future. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, oilfield equipment and services, and personnel. These types of shortages and subsequent price increases could significantly decrease our profit margin, cash flow and operating results and/or restrict or delay our ability to drill those wells and conduct those operations that we currently have planned and budgeted, causing us to miss our forecasts and projections. Our lack of diversification will increase the risk of an investment in us and our financial condition and results of operations may deteriorate if we fail to diversify. Our business is focused primarily on a limited number of properties in North Dakota and Montana. We may choose to limit our focus to a single geographic area such as the Williston Basin, which could limit our flexibility. We previously committed to joint ventures with third parties to acquire and develop acreage; we may continue to participate in joint ventures in the future, although we intend to focus on operating our own properties. Our required capital commitments may grow if the opportunity presents itself and will depend upon the results of initial testing and development activities. Larger companies have the ability to manage their risk by diversification. However, we lack diversification in terms of both the nature and geographic scope of our business. As a result, we will likely be impacted more acutely by factors affecting our industry or the regions in which we operate than if our business was more diversified, enhancing our risk profile. For example, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in the area caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, availability of equipment, facilities, personnel or services market limitations or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil or natural gas. In addition, the effect of fluctuations on supply and demand may become more pronounced within specific geographic oil and natural gas producing areas such as the Williston Basin, which may cause these conditions to occur with greater frequency or magnify the effects of these conditions. Due to the concentrated nature of our portfolio of properties, a number of our properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of properties. If we cannot diversify our operations, our financial condition and results of operations could deteriorate. Our ability to sell our production and/or receive market prices for our production may be adversely affected by transportation capacity constraints and interruptions. If the amount of oil or natural gas being produced by us and others exceeds the capacity of the various transportation pipelines and gathering systems currently available in our operating areas, it will be necessary for new transportation pipelines and gathering systems to be built. In the case of oil and condensate, it may be necessary for us to rely more heavily on trucks to transport our production, which is more expensive and less efficient than transportation via pipeline. Currently, we anticipate that additional pipeline capacity will be required in the Williston Basin to transport oil and condensate production, which increased substantially during 2013 and is expected to continue to increase. The construction of new pipelines and gathering systems is capital intensive and construction may be postponed, interrupted or cancelled in response to changing economic conditions and the availability and cost of capital. In addition, capital constraints could limit our ability to build gathering systems to transport our production to transportation pipelines. In such event, costs to transport our production may increase materially or we might have to shut in our wells awaiting a pipeline connection or capacity and/or sell our production at much lower prices than market or than we currently project, which would adversely affect our results of operations. A portion of our production may also be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous other reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, accidents, loss of pipeline or gathering system access, field labor issues or strikes, or we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions. Competition in obtaining rights to explore and develop oil and natural gas reserves and to market our production may impair our business. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. Other oil and natural gas companies may seek to acquire oil and natural gas leases and other properties and services we intend to target with our investments. This competition is increasingly intense as prices of oil and natural gas rise. Additionally, other companies engaged in our line of business may compete with us from time to time in obtaining capital from investors or in funding joint ventures with our prospective partners. Competitors include a variety of potential investors and larger companies, which, in particular, may have access to greater resources, may be more successful in the recruitment and retention of qualified employees and may conduct their own refining and petroleum marketing operations, which may give them a competitive advantage. In addition, actual or potential competitors may be strengthened through the acquisition of additional assets and interests. If we are unable to compete effectively or adequately respond to competitive pressures, this inability may materially adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. 10 Strategic relationships upon which we may rely are subject to change, which may diminish our ability to conduct our operations. Our ability to successfully acquire additional properties, to discover reserves, to participate in exploration opportunities and to identify and enter into commercial arrangements with customers depends on developing and maintaining close working relationships with industry participants, our ability to select and evaluate suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. These realities are subject to change and may impair our ability to grow. To further develop our business, we may endeavor to use the business relationships of our management team to enter into strategic relationships, which may take the form of joint ventures with other private parties and contractual arrangements with other oil and natural gas companies, including those that supply equipment and other resources that we will use in our business. Our ability to successfully operate joint ventures depends on a variety of factors, many of which will be entirely outside our control. We may not be able to establish strategic relationships, or if established, we may not be able to maintain them. In addition, the dynamics of our relationships with strategic partners may require us to incur expenses or undertake activities we would not otherwise be inclined to undertake in order to fulfill our obligations to these partners or maintain our relationships. If our strategic relationships are not established or maintained, our business prospects may be limited, which could diminish our ability to conduct our operations. Our strategy includes acquisitions of oil and natural gas properties, and our failure to identify or complete future acquisitions successfully could reduce our earnings and hamper our growth. We may be unable to identify properties for acquisition or to make acquisitions on terms that we consider economically acceptable. There is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in the oil and natural gas industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. The completion and pursuit of acquisitions may be dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. Our ability to grow through acquisitions will require us to continue to invest in operations, financial and management information systems and to attract, retain, motivate and effectively manage our employees. The inability to manage the integration of acquisitions effectively could reduce our focus on subsequent acquisitions and current operations, and could negatively impact our results of operations and growth potential. Our financial position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period as a result of the completion of significant acquisitions during particular periods. If we are not successful in identifying or acquiring any material property interests, our earnings could be reduced and our growth could be restricted. We may engage in bidding and negotiating to complete successful acquisitions. We may be required to alter or increase substantially our capitalization to finance these acquisitions through the use of cash on hand, the issuance of debt or equity securities, the sale of production payments, the sale of non-strategic assets, the borrowing of funds or otherwise. If we were to proceed with one or more acquisitions involving the issuance of our common stock, our shareholders would suffer dilution of their interests. Furthermore, our decision to acquire properties that are substantially different in operating or geologic characteristics or geographic locations from areas with which our staff is familiar may impact our productivity in such areas. We may have difficulty integrating and managing the growth associated with our recent acquisitions. Our recent acquisitions are expected to result in a significant growth in our assets, reserves and revenues and may place a significant strain on our financial, technical, operational and administrative resources. We may not be able to integrate the operations of the acquired assets without increases in costs, losses in revenues or other difficulties. In addition, we may not be able to realize the operating efficiencies, synergies, costs savings or other benefits expected from such acquisitions. Any unexpected costs or delays incurred in connection with such integration could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have hired and intend to hire new employees that we expect will be required to manage our operations, and we plan to add resources as needed as we scale up our business. However, we may experience difficulties in finding additional qualified personnel. In an effort to stay on schedule with our planned activities, we may supplement our staff with contract and consultant personnel until we are able to hire new employees. Our ability to continue to grow after these acquisitions will depend upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify and acquire new exploratory prospects and other acquisition targets, our ability to develop then existing prospects, our ability to successfully adopt an operated approach, our ability to continue to retain and attract skilled personnel, the results of our drilling program and acquisition efforts, hydrocarbon prices and access to capital. We may not be successful in achieving or managing growth, and any such failure could have a material adverse effect on us. Acquisitions may prove to be worth less than we paid because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our recent growth is due in large part to acquisitions of producing properties and undeveloped leasehold. We expect acquisitions to be instrumental to our future growth. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties that we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems, and does not involve a review of seismic data or independent environmental testing. In addition, our review may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and limitations, including any structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to acquire oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or be able to complete future acquisitions on terms that we believe are acceptable or that, even if completed, do not contain problems that reduce the value of acquired property. We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest. Title to oil and natural gas interests is often not capable of conclusive determination without incurring substantial expense. Title defects may exist in many of our oil and natural gas interests. In addition, we may be unable to obtain adequate insurance for title defects on a commercially reasonable basis or at all. If title defects do exist, it is possible that we may lose all or a portion of our right, title and interests in and to the properties to which the title defects relate and suffer a financial loss. If our property rights are reduced, our ability to conduct our exploration, development and production activities may be impaired. It is our practice in acquiring oil and natural gas leases or interests not to incur the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest. Rather, we rely upon the judgment of oil and gas lease brokers or landmen who perform the fieldwork in examining records in the appropriate governmental office before attempting to acquire a lease in a specific mineral interest. Prior to the drilling of an oil or natural gas well, however, it is the normal practice in our industry for the operator of the well to conduct a preliminary title review prior to drilling to ensure there are no obvious defects in title to the well. Frequently, as a result of such examinations, certain curative work must be done to correct defects in the marketability of the title, and such curative work entails expense. Our failure to cure any title defects may delay or prevent us from utilizing the associated mineral interest, which may adversely impact our ability in the future to increase production and reserves. Additionally, undeveloped acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage. If we are not able to generate sufficient funds from our operations and other financing sources, we may not be able to finance our planned development activity, acquisitions or service our debt. We have been dependent on debt and equity financing to fund our cash needs that are not funded from operations or the sale of assets, and we will continue to incur additional indebtedness to fund our operations. Low commodity prices, production problems, disappointing drilling results and other factors beyond our control could reduce our funds from operations and may restrict our ability to obtain additional financing or to pay interest and principal on our debt obligations. Furthermore, we have incurred losses in the past that may affect our ability to obtain financing. Quantifying or predicting the likelihood of any or all of these occurring is difficult in the current domestic and world economy. For these reasons, financing may not be available to us in the future on acceptable terms or at all. In the event additional capital is required but not available on acceptable terms, we would curtail our acquisition, drilling, development and other activities or could be forced to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis. We may be unable to obtain additional capital that we will require to implement our business plan, which could restrict our ability to grow. Our revolving credit facility limits our borrowings to the lesser of the borrowing base and the total commitments. Our borrowing base was $75.0 million as of December 31, 2013. Our borrowing base is determined semi-annually, and may also be redetermined at the election of us or the banks between the scheduled redeterminations. Lower oil and natural gas prices may result in a reduction in our borrowing base at the next redetermination. A reduction in our borrowing base could require us to repay any indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base. Additionally, our revolving credit facility contains covenants limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness and requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. Future acquisitions and future exploration, development, production and marketing activities, as well as our administrative requirements (such as salaries, insurance expenses and general overhead expenses, as well as legal compliance costs and accounting expenses) will require a substantial amount of capital and cash flow. We may pursue sources of additional capital through various financing transactions or arrangements, including joint venturing of projects, debt financing, equity financing or other means. We may not be successful in identifying suitable financing transactions in the time period required or at all, and we may not obtain the capital we require by other means. If we do not succeed in raising additional capital, our resources may not be sufficient to fund our operations in the future. 11 Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity will dilute the ownership percentage of our shareholders. Raising any such capital could also result in a decrease in the fair market value of our equity securities because our assets would be owned by a larger pool of outstanding equity. The terms of securities we issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable to our new investors, and may include preferences, superior voting rights and the issuance of other derivative securities. In addition, we have granted and will continue to grant equity incentive awards under our equity incentive plans, which may have a further dilutive effect. Our ability to obtain financing, if and when necessary, may be impaired by such factors as the capital markets (both generally and in the oil and natural gas industry in particular), our limited operating history, the location of our oil and natural gas properties and prices of oil and natural gas on the commodities markets (which will impact the amount of asset-based financing available to us) and the departure of key employees. Further, if oil or natural gas prices decline, our revenues will likely decrease and such decreased revenues may increase our requirements for capital. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations, is not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs (even to the extent that we reduce our operations), we may be required to cease our operations, divest our assets at unattractive prices or obtain financing on unattractive terms. We may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, which may adversely impact our financial condition. We have a history of losses which may continue and negatively impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. We incurred net losses of $10,882,895, $62,296,099 and $1,345,054 for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We cannot assure you that we can achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our operations are subject to the risks and competition inherent in the oil and natural gas industry. We cannot assure you that future operations will be profitable. Revenues and profits, if any, will depend upon various factors, including whether we will be able to increase our revenues. We may not achieve our business objectives and the failure to achieve such goals would have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and result of operations. We have debt, trade payables, and other long-term obligations. Our debt, trade payables, long-term obligations, and related interest and dividend payment requirements and scheduled debt maturities may have important negative consequences. For instance, they could: ·make it more difficult or render us unable to satisfy these or our other financial obligations; ·require us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of overriding royalties or interest and principal due under our debt, which will reduce funds available for other business purposes; ·increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; ·limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; ·place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to some of our competitors that have less financial leverage; and ·limit our ability to obtain additional financing required to fund working capital and capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes. Our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and commitments depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow or that future financings will be available to provide sufficient proceeds to meet these obligations. The inability to meet our financial obligations and commitments will impede the successful execution of our business strategy and the maintenance of our economic viability. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and low prices have had in the past and could have in the future a material adverse impact on our business. Our revenues, profitability and future growth and the carrying value of our properties depend substantially on the prices we realize for our oil and natural gas production. Our realized prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. Restrictive debt covenants could limit our growth and our ability to finance our operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. Our credit facility contains a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict or limit our ability to: ·pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock; ·make certain loans and investments; ·enter into certain transactions with affiliates; ·create or assume certain liens on our assets; ·merge or to enter into other business combination transactions; ·enter into transactions that would result in a change of control of us; or ·engage in certain other corporate activities. Also, our credit facility requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to comply with these ratios and financial condition tests may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet these ratios and financial condition tests. These financial ratio restrictions and financial condition tests could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive covenants under our bank credit facility impose on us. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or financial condition tests could result in a default under our credit facility. A default, if not cured or waived, could result in all indebtedness outstanding under our credit facility becoming immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could accelerate the maturity of the debt or proceed against any collateral granted to them to secure such defaulted debt. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth, which may harm our profitability. Our strategy envisions expanding our business. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our financial results could be adversely affected. Growth may place a strain on our management systems and resources. We must continue to refine and expand our business development capabilities, our systems and processes and our access to financing sources. As we grow, we must continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. We may not be able to: ·meet our capital needs; ·expand our systems effectively or efficiently or in a timely manner; ·allocate our human resources optimally; ·identify and hire qualified employees or retain valued employees; or ·incorporate effectively the components of any business that we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth. If we are unable to manage our growth, our operations and our financial results could be adversely affected by inefficiency, which could diminish our profitability. Our business may suffer if we do not attract and retain talented personnel. Our success will depend in large measure on the abilities, expertise, judgment, discretion, integrity and good faith of our management and other personnel in conducting our business. We have a small management team, and the loss of key individuals or the inability to attract and retain suitably qualified personnel could materially adversely impact our business. Our success depends on the ability of our management, employees and exploration partners to interpret market and geological data correctly and to interpret and respond to economic market and other conditions in order to locate and adopt appropriate investment opportunities, monitor such investments, and ultimately, if required, to successfully divest such investments. Lower oil and natural gas prices, decreases in value of undeveloped acreage, lease expirations and material changes to our plans of development may cause us to record ceiling test write-downs. We use the full cost method of accounting to account for our oil and natural gas operations. Accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop oil and natural gas properties. Under full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties may not exceed a “full cost ceiling” which is based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, including the effect of hedges in place, discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or fair market value of unproved properties. If at the end of any fiscal period we determine that the net capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties exceed the full cost ceiling, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings in the period then ended. This is called a “ceiling test write-down.” This charge does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce our net income and shareholders’ equity. We may recognize write-downs in the future if commodity prices decline or if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. 12 Penalties we may incur could impair our business. Failure to comply with government regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties, could require us to forfeit property rights, and may affect the value of our assets. We may also be required to take corrective actions, such as installing additional equipment or taking other actions, each of which could require us to make substantial capital expenditures. We could also be required to indemnify our employees in connection with any expenses or liabilities that they may incur individually in connection with regulatory action against them. As a result, our future business prospects could deteriorate due to regulatory constraints, and our profitability could be impaired by our obligation to provide such indemnification to our employees. We may have difficulty distributing our oil and natural gas production, which could harm our financial condition. In order to sell the oil and natural gas that we are able to produce from the Williston Basin, we may have to make arrangements for storage and distribution to the market. We will rely on local infrastructure and the availability of transportation for storage and shipment of our products, but infrastructure development and storage and transportation facilities may be insufficient for our needs at commercially acceptable terms in the localities in which we operate. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline and rail systems owned by third parties. The lack or unavailability of capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay, or discontinuance of, development plans for properties. The disruption of third-party pipelines or rail transportation facilities due to labor disputes, maintenance, civil disturbances, public protests, terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, adverse weather, regulatory developments, equipment failures or accidents, including pipeline ruptures or train derailments, could negatively impact our ability to market and deliver our products and achieve the most favorable prices for our oil and natural gas production. This situation could be exacerbated to the extent that our operations are conducted in remote areas that are difficult to access, such as areas that are distant from shipping and/or pipeline facilities. These factors may affect our ability to explore and develop properties and to store and transport our oil and natural gas production, which may increase our expenses. Our hedging activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our net income or increase our net loss, which may adversely affect our business. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas production, we may enter into oil and natural gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of expected production that we fund. Such transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: ·production is less than expected; ·there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; or ·the counterparties to our hedging agreements fail to perform under the contracts. Seasonal weather conditions and other factors could adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities. Our operations could be adversely affected by weather conditions and wildlife restrictions on federal leases. In the Williston Basin, drilling and other oil and natural gas activities cannot be conducted as effectively during the winter months. Winter and severe weather conditions limit and may temporarily halt the ability to operate during such conditions. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay or temporarily halt our oil and natural gas operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The inability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to satisfy their obligations to us may have a material and adverse effect on us. We have various customers for the oil, natural gas and related commodities that we produce as well as various other contractual counterparties, including several financial institutions and affiliates of financial institutions. Domestic and global economic conditions, including the financial condition of financial institutions generally, have weakened in recent years and remain relatively weak. In addition, there continues to be weakness and volatility in domestic and global financial markets relating to the credit crisis in recent years, and corresponding reaction by lenders to risk. These conditions and factors may adversely affect the ability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to pay amounts owed to us from time to time and to otherwise satisfy their contractual obligations to us, as well as their ability to access the credit and capital markets for such purposes. Moreover, our customers and other contractual counterparties may be unable to satisfy their contractual obligations to us for reasons unrelated to these conditions and factors, such as the unavailability of required facilities or equipment due to mechanical failure or market conditions. Furthermore, if a customer is unable to satisfy its contractual obligation to purchase oil, natural gas or related commodities from us, we may be unable to sell such production to another customer on terms we consider acceptable, if at all, due to the geographic location of such production, the availability, proximity or capacity of gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities or market or other factors and conditions. The inability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to pay amounts owed to us and to otherwise satisfy their contractual obligations to us may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Environmental risks may adversely affect our business. All phases of the oil and natural gas business present environmental risks and hazards and are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of federal, state, tribal and municipal laws and regulations. These regulations include compliance obligations for air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharge, solid and hazardous waste disposal, and spill prevention, control and countermeasures, as well as for the protection of threatened or endangered species. In some cases, our operations are subject to federal requirements for performing or preparing environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before commencing exploration and production activities. Legislation also requires that wells and facility sites be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. These requirements may negatively impact our operations and limit the quantity of natural gas and oil we produce and sell. Compliance with such legislation can also require significant expenditures and a breach may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, some of which may be material. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner that we expect may result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability and potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. The discharge of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to liabilities to governments and third parties and may require us to incur costs to remedy such discharge. The application of environmental laws to our business may cause us to curtail our production or increase the costs of our production, development or exploration activities. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing legislation could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays, or restrict our access to oil and natural gas reserves. We currently use hydraulic fracturing in our operations. Hydraulic fracturing typically involves the injection under pressure of water, sand and additives into rock formations in order to stimulate hydrocarbon production. Hydraulic fracturing using fluids other than diesel is currently exempt from regulation under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (the “SDWA”), but opponents of hydraulic fracturing have called for further study of the technique’s environmental effects and, in some cases, a moratorium on the use of the technique. Several proposals have been submitted to Congress that, if implemented, would subject all hydraulic fracturing to regulation under the SDWA. Eliminating this exemption could establish an additional level of regulation and permitting at the federal level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our cost of compliance and doing business. In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (the “EPA’s”) Office of Research and Development is conducting a scientific study to investigate the possible relationships between hydraulic fracturing and drinking water. The results of that study, which are expected to be available in draft during 2014 for peer review and public comment, could advance the development of additional regulations. Even in the absence of new legislation, the EPA recently asserted the authority to regulate hydraulic fracturing involving the use of diesel additives under the SDWA’s Underground Injection Control Program (the “UIC Program”), which regulates the underground injection of substances. On February 12, 2014, the EPA published UIC Program guidance for oil and natural gas hydraulic fracturing activities using diesel fuel. The guidance document is designed for use by employees of the EPA that draft the UIC permits and describes how regulations of Class II wells, which are those wells injecting fluids associated with oil and natural gas production activities, may be tailored to address the purported unique risks of diesel fuel injection during the hydraulic fracturing process. The EPA has encouraged state programs to review and consider use of the above mentioned guidance. To the extent that EPA’s new regulatory guidance is extended to our operations by permitting authorities, additional and significant compliance costs may arise that could materially affect our operations, cash flows, and financial position. Hydraulic fracturing operations require the use of water and the disposal or recycling of water that has been used in operations. The federal Clean Water Act (the “CWA”) restricts the discharge of produced waters and other pollutants into waters of the United States and requires permits before any pollutants may be so discharged. On October 21, 2011, the EPA announced its intention to propose federal Clean Water Act regulations by 2014 governing wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and certain other natural gas operations. The CWA and comparable state laws and regulations provide for penalties for unauthorized discharges of pollutants including produced water, oil, and other hazardous substances. Compliance with and future revisions to requirements and permits governing the use, discharge, and recycling of water used for hydraulic fracturing may increase our costs and cause delays, interruptions or terminations of our operations which cannot be predicted. On May 16, 2013, the Department of Interior – Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”) released a revised proposed rule that, if adopted as drafted, would require companies operating on federal and Indian lands to (i) publicly disclose the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process; (ii) confirm their wells meet certain construction standards and (iii) establish site plans to manage flowback water. The revised proposed rule was subject to a 90-day public comment period, which ended on August 23, 2013; the BLM has not yet issued a final rule. The Department of Energy is also considering whether to implement actions to lessen the environmental impact associated with hydraulic fracturing operations. Initiatives by the EPA and other federal and state regulators to expand their regulation of hydraulic fracturing, together with the possible adoption of new federal or state laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing, could result in delays, eliminate certain drilling and injection activities, make it more difficult or costly for us to perform hydraulic fracturing, increase our costs of compliance and doing business, and delay or prevent the development of unconventional hydrocarbon resources from shale and other formations that are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing. In addition, there have been proposals by non-governmental organizations to restrict certain buyers from purchasing oil and natural gas produced from wells that have utilized hydraulic fracturing in their completion process, which could negatively impact our ability to sell our production from wells that utilized these fracturing processes. 13 Apart from federal regulatory initiatives, states have been considering or implementing new requirements for hydraulic fracturing, including restricting its use in environmentally sensitive areas. Similarly, some localities have significantly limited or prohibited drilling activities, or are considering doing so. Although it is not possible at this time to predict the final requirements of any additional federal or state legislation or regulation regarding hydraulic fracturing, any new federal, state, or local restrictions on hydraulic fracturing that may be imposed in areas where we conduct business, such as the Bakken and Three Forks areas, could significantly increase our operating, capital and compliance costs as well as delay or halt our ability to develop oil and natural gas reserves. Our operations substantially depend on the availability of water. Restrictions on our ability to obtain, dispose of or recycle water may impact our ability to execute our drilling and development plans in a timely or cost-effective manner. Water is an essential component of our drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations from local sources, we may be unable to economically produce oil, NGLs and natural gas, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of oil and gas. Compliance with environmental regulations and permit requirements for the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or ground water necessary for hydraulic fracturing of our wells may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or cessation of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, and all of which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. One of our existing shareholders beneficially owns common stock and warrants to purchase a significant percentage of our common stock, and its interests may conflict with those of our other shareholders. As of March 12, 2014, White Deer Energy L.P. (“White Deer Energy”) beneficially owned approximately 18.2% of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis, consisting of 7,878,452 shares of our common stock and a warrant to purchase 5,114,633 shares of our common stock. White Deer Energy owns 5,114,633 shares of our Series B Voting Preferred Stock, which have one vote per share and vote together with shares of our common stock. As a result, White Deer Energy is able to exercise significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our charter and bylaws, the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. The interests of White Deer Energy with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us, such as future acquisitions, financings and other corporate opportunities, may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to continue to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet certain reporting obligations. We will rely on technology to conduct our business and our technology could become ineffective or obsolete. We rely on technology, including geographic and seismic analysis techniques and economic models, to develop our reserve estimates and to guide our exploration, development and production activities. We will be required to continually enhance and update our technology to maintain our efficacy and to avoid obsolescence. The costs of doing so may be substantial, and may be higher than the costs that we anticipated for technology maintenance and development. If we are unable to maintain the efficacy of our technology, our ability to manage our business and to compete may be impaired. Further, even if we are able to maintain technical effectiveness, our technology may not be the most efficient means of reaching our objectives, in which case we may incur higher operating costs than we would were our technology more efficient. Losses and liabilities from uninsured or underinsured drilling and operating activities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. We maintain several types of insurance to cover our operations, including worker’s compensation and comprehensive general liability. Amounts over base coverages are provided by primary and excess umbrella liability policies. We also expect to maintain operator’s extra expense coverage, which covers the control of drilling or producing wells as well as redrilling expenses and pollution coverage for wells out of control. We may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable, or we could experience losses that are not insured or that exceed the maximum limits under our insurance policies. If a significant event that is not fully insured or indemnified occurs, it could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various governmental regulations and environmental risks that may cause us to incur substantial costs. From time to time, in varying degrees, political developments and federal and state laws and regulations affect our operations. In particular, price controls, taxes, and other laws relating to the oil and natural gas industry, changes in these laws, and changes in administrative regulations have affected and in the future could affect oil and natural gas production, operations, and economics. We cannot predict how agencies or courts will interpret existing laws and regulations or the effect these adoptions and interpretations may have on our business or financial condition. Our business is subject to laws and regulations promulgated by federal, state, and local authorities, including but not limited to the U.S. Congress, the EPA, the Bureau of Land Management, the Industrial Commission of North Dakota, and the Montana Board of Oil and Gas Conservation, relating to the exploration for, and the development, production, and marketing of, oil and natural gas, as well as safety matters. Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We may be required to make significant expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. The discharge of oil, natural gas, or other pollutants into the air, soil, or water may give rise to significant liabilities on our part to the government and third parties and may require us to incur substantial costs of remediation. On April 17, 2012, the EPA approved final regulations under the U.S. Clean Air Act (the “CAA”) that, among other things, require additional emissions controls for natural gas and natural gas liquids production, including New Source Performance Standards to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds (“VOC”) and a separate set of emission standards to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with such production activities. The final regulations require the reduction of VOC emissions from natural gas wells through the use of reduced emission completions or “green completions” on all hydraulically fractured wells constructed or refractured after January 1, 2015. For well completion operations occurring at such well sites before January 1, 2015, the final regulations allow operators to capture and direct flowback emissions to completion combustion devices, such as flares, in lieu of performing green completions. These regulations also establish specific new requirements regarding emissions from dehydrators, storage tanks and other production equipment. The EPA later updated the storage tank standards on August 5, 2013 to phase-in emission controls more gradually. We continue to review these requirements and assess their potential impacts. Compliance with these requirements could increase our costs of development and production, although we do not expect these requirements to be any more burdensome to us than to other similarly situated companies involved in oil and natural gas exploration and production activities. The adoption of climate change legislation by Congress could result in increased operating costs, create delays in our obtaining air pollution permits for new or modified facilities, and result in reduced demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. According to certain scientific studies, emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and other gases commonly known as greenhouse gases (“GHG”) may be contributing to global warming of the earth’s atmosphere and to global climate change. In response to the scientific studies, legislative and regulatory initiatives have been underway to limit GHG emissions. The U.S. Supreme Court determined that GHG emissions fall within the definition of an “air pollutant,” and in response, the EPA promulgated an endangerment finding paving the way for regulation of GHG emissions under the CAA. The EPA has also promulgated rules requiring owners or operators of certain petroleum and natural gas systems that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of GHG per year from a facility to report such emissions, and we are subject to this reporting requirement. In addition, the EPA promulgated rules that establish the emission thresholds that would identify major stationary sources of GHG subject to CAA permitting programs. As currently written and based on our current operations, we are not subject to federal GHG permitting requirements. Regulation of GHG emissions is new and highly controversial, and further regulatory, legislative, and judicial developments are likely to occur. Such developments may affect how these GHG initiatives will impact us. Further, apart from these developments, any judicial decisions that allow tort claims alleging property damage to proceed against GHG emissions sources may increase our litigation risk for such claims. Due to the uncertainties surrounding the regulation of and other risks associated with GHG emissions, we cannot predict the financial impact of related developments on us. 14 Legislation or regulations that may be adopted to address climate change could also affect the markets for our products by making our products more or less desirable than competing sources of energy. To the extent that our products are competing with higher GHG emitting energy sources, such as coal, our products could become more desirable in a market with more stringent limitations on GHG emissions. To the extent that our products are competing with lower GHG emitting energy sources, such as solar and wind, our products could become less desirable in the market with more stringent limitations on GHG emissions. We cannot predict with any certainty at this time how these possibilities may affect our operations. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of GHG could require us to incur increased operating costs and could have an adverse effect on demand for the oil and natural gas we produce, depending on the applicability to our operations and the refining, processing, and use of oil and natural gas. Proposed legislation and regulation under consideration related to the transportation of crude oil via rail could increase our operating costs, delay our operations or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business. We presently transport some of our oil production from the Bakken/Three Forks area to market by rail. In response to recent train derailments involving oil from the Bakken that occurred in the United States and Canada in 2013, U.S. transportation regulators have implemented or are considering new rules to address the potential safety risks of transporting oil by rail. For example, on January 23, 2014, the NTSB issued a series of recommendations to address these potential safety risks, including (i) requiring railroads to engage in expanded hazardous material route planning to avoid populated and other sensitive areas, (ii) to audit the response capabilities of rail carriers that carry petroleum products, including an assessment of their ability to address discharges of the entire quantity of product carried on a train, and (iii) to audit shippers and rail carriers to ensure they are properly classifying hazardous materials in transportation and that they have adequate safety and security plans in place. Additionally, on February 25, 2014 the U.S. Department of Transportation issued an emergency order requiring all persons, prior to offering petroleum crude oil into transportation, to ensure such product is properly tested and classed and to assure all shipments by rail of petroleum crude oil be handled as a Packing Group I or II hazardous material. The introduction of these or other regulations that result in new requirements addressing the type, design, specifications or construction of rail cars used to transport oil could result in severe transportation capacity constraints during the period in which new rail cars are retrofitted or constructed to meet these new specifications. In addition, in February 2014, several rail carriers entered into a voluntary agreement with the U.S Department of Transportation (and some of its constituent agencies) to impose more stringent standards for shipments of oil. We do not currently own or operate rail transportation facilities or rail cars; however, the adoption of any regulations that impact the testing or rail transportation of oil could increase our costs of doing business and limit our ability to transport and sell our oil at favorable prices at market centers throughout the United States, the consequences of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The ongoing implementation of federal legislation enacted in 2010 could have an adverse impact on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effects of commodity prices, interest rates, and other risks associated with our business. Historically, we have entered into a number of commodity derivative contracts in order to hedge a portion of our oil and natural gas production. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act which requires the SEC, and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (or CFTC), along with other federal agencies, to promulgate regulations implementing the new legislation. The CFTC, in coordination with the SEC and various US federal banking regulators, has issued regulations to implement the so-called “Volcker Rule” under which banking entities are generally prohibited from proprietary trading of derivatives. Although conditional exemptions from this general prohibition are available, the Volcker Rule may limit the trading activities of banking entities that have been counterparties to our derivatives trades in the past. Also, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act known as the “swaps push-out rule” may require some of the banking counterparties to our commodity derivative contracts to “push out” some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The CFTC also has finalized other regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act’s provisions regarding on the “swap” and “swap dealer” definitions, swap dealer registration, swap data reporting, mandatory clearing, trade reporting, margin and position limits; however, some regulations remain to be finalized and it is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will adopt final rules. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act and the CFTC regulations may require compliance with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements (or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements) in connection with certain of our derivative activities. Also, the CFTC has re-proposed regulations setting position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions are expected to be made exempt from these limits. It is possible that the CFTC, in conjunction with the US federal banking regulators, may mandate that financial counterparties entering into swap transactions with end-users must do so with credit support agreements in place, which could result in negotiated credit thresholds above which we would be required to post collateral. The Dodd-Frank Act and any additional implementing regulations could significantly increase the cost of some commodity derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of some commodity derivative contracts, limit our ability to trade some commodity derivatives to hedge risks, reduce the availability of some commodity derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing commodity derivative contracts and potentially increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a consequence, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. If the implementing regulations result in lower commodity prices, our revenues could be adversely affected. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 