ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks set forth below, in addition to the other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition to the risks set forth below and the other risks described in this annual report, there may also be additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. As a result, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. The United States Economy Is In Recession. A Prolonged Economic Downturn, Especially One Affecting Our Geographic Market Area, Could Materially Affect our Business and Financial Results. The United States economy entered a recession in the fourth quarter of 2007. Throughout the course of 2008 and in the first quarter of 2009, economic conditions continued to worsen, due in large part to the fallout from the collapse of the sub-prime mortgage market. While we did not originate or invest in sub-prime mortgages, our lending business is tied, in large part, to the housing market. Declines in home prices, increases in foreclosures and higher unemployment have adversely affected the credit performance of real estate-related loans, resulting in the write-down of asset values. The continuing housing slump also has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing, further declines in home prices, and increased delinquencies on our construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans. Further, the ongoing concern about the stability of the financial markets in general has caused many lenders to reduce or cease providing funding to borrowers. These conditions may also cause a further reduction in loan demand, and increases in our non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. 34 Difficult Market Conditions Have Adversely Affected Our Industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosure, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Our investment policy does not permit engaging directly in hedging activities or purchasing high-risk mortgage derivative products. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: · We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, including, as a result of the EESA. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. · Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers or to estimate the values of our assets may be impaired if the models and approaches we use become less predictive of future behaviors, valuations, assumptions or estimates. The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure or estimate the value of certain assets requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans or impact the value of assets, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. · Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. · We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Lack of Consumer Confidence in Financial Institutions May Decrease Our Level of Deposits. Our level of deposits may be affected by lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions, which have caused fewer depositors to be willing to maintain deposits that are not FDIC-insured accounts. That may cause depositors to withdraw deposits and place them in other institutions or to invest uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the United States Treasury. These consumer preferences may cause us to be forced to pay higher interest rates to retain deposits and may constrain liquidity as we seek to meet funding needs caused by reduced deposit levels. Future Legislative or Regulatory Actions Responding to Financial and Market Weakness Could Affect Us Adversely. There Can Be No Assurance that Actions of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve and Other Governmental and Regulatory Bodies For the Purpose of Stabilizing the Financial Markets Will Achieve the Intended Effect. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets, the U.S. Congress has passed legislation and the U.S. Treasury has promulgated programs designed to purchase assets from, provide 35 equity capital to, and guarantee the liquidity of the financial services industry. Specifically, Congress adopted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, under which the U.S. Treasury has the authority to expend up to $700 billion to assist in stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial system. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced the Capital Purchase Program, under which it will purchase up to $250 billion of non-voting senior preferred shares of certain qualified financial institutions in an attempt to encourage financial institutions to build capital to increase the flow of financing to businesses and consumers and to support the economy. In addition, Congress temporarily increased FDIC deposit insurance from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor through December 31, 2009. The FDIC has also announced the creation of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program which is intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions by temporarily guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of participating organizations and providing full insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts (such as business checking accounts, interest-bearing transaction accounts paying 50 basis points or less and lawyers’ trust accounts), regardless of dollar amount until December 31, 2009. Finally, in February 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 was enacted, which is intended to expand and establish government spending programs and provide certain tax cuts to stimulate the economy. The U.S. government continues to evaluate and develop various programs and initiatives designed to stabilize the financial and housing markets and stimulate the economy, including the U.S. Treasury’s recently announced Financial Stability Plan and the recently announced foreclosure prevention program. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and the issuance of many formal enforcement orders is expected. Actions taken to date, as well as potential actions, may not have the beneficial effects that are intended, particularly with respect to the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes will increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. Our FDIC insurance premiums have increased, and may continue to increase, because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes, along with negative developments in the financial services industry and the credit markets, may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. An Inadequate Allowance for Loan Losses Would Negatively Impact Our Results of Operations. We are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to avoid losses. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Volatility and deterioration in the broader economy may also increase our risk of credit losses. The determination of an appropriate level of allowance for loan losses is an inherently uncertain process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control, and charge-offs may exceed current estimates. We evaluate the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate based upon such factors as, including, but not limited to: the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; previous loan loss experience; specific loans that have loss potential; delinquency trends; the estimated fair market value of the collateral; current economic conditions; the views of our regulators; and geographic and industry loan concentrations. If any of our evaluations are incorrect and borrower defaults result in losses exceeding our allowance for loan losses, our results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our allowance will be adequate to cover probable loan losses inherent in our portfolio. The Need to Account for Assets at Market Prices May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. We report certain assets, including investments and securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs to estimate fair value. Because we carry these assets on our books at their fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. Given the continued disruption in the capital markets, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments in future periods with respect to securities in our portfolio. The amount 36 and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the securities and our estimation of the anticipated recovery period. Our Commercial Real Estate, Commercial Business and Construction Loans Expose Us to Increased Credit Risks. At December 31, 2008, our portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $168.4 million, or 38.4% of total loans, our commercial business loan portfolio totaled $78.2 million, or 17.8% of total loans, and our portfolio of construction and land loans totaled $52.3 million, or 11.9% of total loans. We plan to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans. Commercial real estate, commercial business and construction loans generally have greater credit risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of these loans often depends on the successful business operations of the borrowers. These loans typically have larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Many of our borrowers also have more than one commercial real estate, commercial business or construction loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship may expose us to significantly greater risk of loss, compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Changes in the Value of Goodwill and Intangible Assets Could Reduce Our Earnings and Stockholders’ Equity. We are required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles to test goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment at least annually. Testing for impairment of goodwill and intangible assets involves the identification of reporting units and the estimation of fair values. The estimation of fair values involves a high degree of judgment and subjectivity in the assumptions used. As of December 31, 2008, if our goodwill and intangible assets were fully impaired and we were required to charge-off all of our goodwill, the pro forma reduction to our stockholders’ equity would be approximately $2.50 per share. However, we did test for impairment of goodwill and intangible assets as of December 31, 2008, and it is management’s opinion that we were not impaired at that time. Our Continuing Concentration of Loans in Our Primary Market Area May Increase Our Risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which we conduct business, and in the greater metropolitan St. Louis area in general. Unlike large banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in Madison County, Illinois. The local economic conditions in our market area have a significant impact on our loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control, would affect the local economic conditions and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, because we have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in tenant occupancy also may have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. A Breach of Information Security Could Negatively Affect Our Earnings. Increasingly, we depend upon data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks, and over the internet. We cannot be certain all our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards we have instituted. In addition, we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. Disruptions to our vendors’ systems may arise from events that are wholly or partially beyond our vendors’ control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages). If information security is breached, despite the controls we have instituted, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect our earnings. 37 We Are Subject to Extensive Regulatory Oversight We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. Regulators have intensified their focus on bank lending criteria and controls, and on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. There is also increased scrutiny of our compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in the anti-money laundering area, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures and systems we have in place are flawless. Therefore, there is no assurance that in every instance we are in full compliance with these requirements. Our failure to comply with these and other regulatory requirements can lead to, among other remedies, administrative enforcement actions, and legal proceedings. In addition, recently enacted, proposed and future legislation and regulations have had, will continue to have or may have significant impact on the financial services industry. Regulatory or legislative changes could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for us, and could cause us to change or limit some of our products and services, or the way we operate our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 