RISK FACTORS In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the Company. WPTE has a short operating history with respect to the Company’s current and proposed businesses, so it will be difficult for investors to predict WPTE’s future success. Prior to the Company’s initial public offering, substantially all of WPTE’s current businesses were conducted as World Poker Tour, LLC, a privately held limited liability company formed in March of 2002. Although the Company has successfully produced and distributed WPT television programming domestically to this point, the development of WPTE’s other businesses has only recently begun. The Company has only recognized revenue of $5.2 million from all other business activities since its inception. Although we expect to increase our branding, licensing and sponsorship revenue, we cannot assure you that such additional royalty fees will ultimately materialize. If we are unable to increase our licensing and branding revenues beyond current levels, our results of operations will continue to depend almost entirely on the licensing and distribution of our television programming, which itself has a limited operating history for investors to evaluate. We should therefore be considered an early-stage company with only a limited operating history for potential investors to consider. The revenues we receive under our agreements with the Travel Channel have been and continue to be our most significant source of revenue; the termination or impairment of these agreements would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We have entered into agreements with the Travel Channel, LLC pursuant to which we granted the Travel Channel exclusive licenses to exhibit our Season One and Season Two programming on television in the United States and options to acquire similar licenses for the episodes comprising each of Seasons Three through Seven (to be completed in 2009). The option for Season Three was exercised in May 2004. Because the license fees we receive from the Travel Channel have been and continue to be our most significant source of revenue (comprising approximately 76% of our company’s total historical revenues), our failure to maintain or replace this agreement with a comparable license agreement prior to the material growth of other revenue streams (for example, from the sale of branded merchandise) would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations and cash flow. Even following the growth of other revenue streams, our failure to maintain a license agreement would be detrimental to the viability of the World Poker Tour brand and, consequently, would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ultimately, the price of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents The Travel Channel may exercise the final editing rights it has retained over our current programming in a manner that diminishes the quality of our programming or negatively affects our business relationships, either of which could negatively impact the value of the World Poker Tour brand and adversely affect our business operations. As is customary in most production agreements with television networks, the Travel Channel retains final edit rights over the World Poker Tour programs that we produce. If the Travel Channel exercises these rights in a manner that diminishes the quality of our programs or negatively affects relationships that are important to our programming, including those with the casinos hosting the poker tournaments at which we film our shows, its actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow and, ultimately, the price of our common stock. Our television programming may be unable to maintain a sufficient audience for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. Television production is a speculative business because revenues and income derived from television depend primarily upon the continued acceptance of that programming by the public, which is difficult to predict. Public acceptance of particular programming is dependent upon, among other things, the quality of the programming, the strength of networks on which the programming is broadcast, the promotion and scheduling of the programming and the quality and acceptance of competing television programming and other sources of entertainment and information. Popularity of programming can also be negatively impacted by excessive broadcasting or telecasting of the programming beyond viewers’ saturation thresholds. Under our agreements with the Travel Channel, the Travel Channel may show unlimited repeats of our episodes during the term of its license. The Travel Channel has options to obtain exclusive United States broadcast rights to the World Poker Tour television series through Season Seven, which will not be completed until 2009. The license fees we receive pursuant to our agreement with the Travel Channel increase at a prescribed rate for each new season of the World Poker Tour. As a result, obtaining high ratings will not affect the amount of broadcast license fees we will receive from the Travel Channel during the term of the agreement. If the World Poker Tour television series is unable to maintain high ratings throughout the term of the Travel Channel agreement, the Travel Channel may choose not to exercise its options on the series, in which event we may be unable to negotiate United States broadcast license agreements on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. 18 Table of Contents Our ability to create and license our television programming profitably may be negatively affected by adverse trends that apply to the television production business generally. Television revenues and income may be affected by a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. These factors include a general decline in broadcast television viewers, pricing pressure in the television advertising industry, strength of the stations on which our programming is broadcast, general economic conditions, increases in production costs, availability of other forms of entertainment and leisure time activities and other factors. All of these factors may quickly change, and these changes cannot be predicted with certainty. Our future licensing opportunities may also be adversely affected by these changes. Accordingly, if any of these changes were to occur, the revenues and income we generate from television programming could decline. Increases in the cost of resources required to produce television programming may outpace the fixed increases in license fees that we will receive under our current licensing agreements with the Travel Channel. The production and marketing of television programming requires substantial resources and expenditures. In recent years, increases in production and marketing costs have often outpaced increases in licensing fees. We are particularly susceptible to increases in production and marketing costs because our agreements with the Travel Channel provide that the per-episode license fee we receive from the Travel Channel will increase by a fixed percentage in each year that the Travel Channel elects to exercise its option to license our programming. If increases in our production costs outpace increases in the license fees that we receive, this could have an adverse effect on the income we generate from television production. We may not be able to secure distribution for our second television series, the Professional Poker Tour (“PPT”). In October 2004, we announced the formation of the Professional Poker Tour (PPT). The PPT is an invitation only tournament restricted to poker’s professional elite, including champions from WPT and other major poker competitions. The PPT currently includes five major stops: Foxwoods, Bellagio, Goldstrike Casino, Commerce Casino and Mirage. WPTE will produce these five episodes and contribute certain allocated amounts to the event fees. We intend to license the series for network broadcast or cable telecast. Through January 2, 2005, the company has expensed approximately $0.7 million related to the production of the PPT. If we are unable to license the PPT or to secure favorable business terms, this could hinder our ability to recoup production costs already recognized as costs of revenues and may result in an overall negative impact on our brand. 19 Table of Contents Our success depends on our current brand and any future brands we may develop, and if the value of our brands were to diminish, our business would be adversely affected. Our success depends on our current brand, which currently consists of a portfolio of trademarks, service marks, copyrighted materials (which includes but is not limited to existing and future episodes of the televised programming produced in connection with our existing and future brands and certain elements of these episodes), trade names and other intellectual property rights, and on any future brands we develop. In connection with our branding and licensing operations, we have entered into an agreement with Brandgenuity LLC, to seek licensing opportunities for our current brand. While specific contractual provisions require that the licensees brought to us by Brandgenuity maintain the quality of our brands, we cannot be certain that our licensees or their manufacturers and distributors will honor their contractual obligations or that they will not take other actions that will diminish the value of our brand prior to our ability to detect and prevent any such actions. There is a risk that we may not be able to protect our entertainment concepts, our current and future brands and our other proprietary rights. We are susceptible to others imitating our television show concepts and other products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. We currently believe that several competitive poker-related television programs use exhibition methods and technology that might infringe on one or more claims of our pending patent applications. We have issued letters to the producers of these programs, notifying them that we have intellectual property rights in such technology and that we intend to vigorously enforce such rights in order to protect our proprietary processes. These and other producers of poker-related programming may be well established and may have significantly greater resources than we do. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Any litigation could result in substantial expense, may reduce our profits and may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights, upon which we are materially dependent. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not always protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Imitation of our television show concepts and other products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenues. We currently have three U.S. patent applications and two international patent applications pending before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The three U.S. patent applications relate to (1) a specially designed poker table that uses integral lighting, (2) a method for exhibiting a card game in a video format, and (3) a method for controlling the pace of a card game. The two international patent applications relate to (1) a specially designed poker table that uses integral lighting and (2) a method for exhibiting a card game in a video format. If we are denied these patents, we might be unable to prevent our competitors from imitating our programming by utilizing our special table, exhibition method, and pacing method. We cannot be certain that any pending patent application held by us will result in an issued patent or that if patents are issued to us, the patents will provide meaningful protection against competitors or competitive technologies. The use of this table and these methods by other poker-related television programs may lead to increased competition for our target audiences and reduced ratings for the World Poker Tour television series. This would have a negative impact on the World Poker Tour 20 Table of Contents brand’s visibility and jeopardize our ability to create revenue based on the brand’s recognition, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations, financial condition and the price of our common stock. See “Intellectual Property.” In 2003, a third party claimed that we were infringing upon its patent by using small television cameras to reveal players’ “hole” cards or “down” cards to a television audience in connection with the televised exhibition of poker tournaments. This claim was resolved when we entered into a settlement agreement under which we are required to pay fees in connection with the exhibition of our tournaments. See “Item 3. Legal Matters.” Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and harm our reputation. In addition, litigation or claims based upon intellectual property or other third party rights could force us to do one or more of the following: to cease exploitation of our television show and related products or portions thereof that violate the potentially infringed third party rights or intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenue; to negotiate a license from the holder of the intellectual property or other right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or to modify our television show and related products or portions thereof to avoid infringing the intellectual property or other rights of a third party, which may be costly and time-consuming or impossible to accomplish. Early termination of our agreements with member casinos or violation of member casinos of the restrictive covenants contained in these agreements could negatively affect the size of broadcast audiences and lead to declines in the performance of all of our other lines of business. We have entered into written agreements with all but one of the “member casinos” that host the World Poker Tour tour stops (Aviation Club de France — Paris, France - currently participates as a tour stop under an unwritten arrangement). These written agreements are for a term of five years and provide us with a unilateral option to renew for an additional five years (this option is bilateral for certain of our member casinos). However, in each year after its first year of participation, the member casino may elect to withdraw its tournament from the World Poker Tour lineup and terminate the agreement by giving us notice by a specified date or, if earlier, a specified length of time (generally four to six months) before the date of the tournament. While the agreement is in effect and for varying periods of time thereafter, the member casino is prohibited from televising the tournament itself, permitting any third party to televise the tournament, or licensing its name, trademarks, or likeness to any other party in conjunction with the broadcast of a poker tournament. If a significant number of these casinos were to terminate the agreements and/or allow a competing company to broadcast their tournaments in violation of these restrictions or after their expiration, this could result in a decline in our future broadcast audiences, which in turn would lead to declines in the performance and success of our other lines of business. 21 Table of Contents Termination or impairment of our relationships with key licensing and strategic partners could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We have developed relationships with key strategic partners in many areas of our business, including poker tournament event sponsorship, merchandise licensing, corporate sponsorship and international distribution. We hope to derive significant income from our licensing arrangements, and our agreements with our strategic partners are vital to finding these licensing arrangements. If we were to fail to manage our existing licensing relationships, this failure could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We would also be materially adversely affected if we were to lose our rights under any of our other key contracts or if the counterparty to any of these contracts were to breach its obligations to us. We rely on a limited number of contracts under which third parties provide us with services vital to our business. These agreements include: • our agreement with Brandgenuity LLC, pursuant to which it negotiates third party consumer product licensing agreements; • our agreement with Alfred Haber Distribution, Inc., pursuant to which it identifies potential licensees and negotiates licenses to broadcast the World Poker Tour television programs on television networks outside of the United States. If our relationship with any of these or certain other third parties were to be interrupted, or the services provided by any of these third parties were to be delayed or deteriorate for any reason without being adequately replaced, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, while we have significant control over our licensed products and advertising, we do not have operational and financial control over these third parties, and we have limited influence with respect to the manner in which they conduct their businesses. If any of these strategic partners were to experience a significant downturn in their businesses or were otherwise unable to honor their obligations to us, our business could be disrupted and be materially adversely affected. The loss of the services of Steven Lipscomb or other key employees or on-air talent, or failure to attract key individuals, would materially and adversely affect our business. We are highly dependent on the services of Steven Lipscomb, who served as our Chief Executive Officer from our inception until February 25, 2004, and is the creator and Executive Producer of the World Poker Tour television series and currently serves as our Founder and President. Mr. Lipscomb also serves as the executive producer of our current television series and the provision of Mr. Lipscomb’s services in connection with this series is required under our agreement with the Travel Channel. Although we have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Lipscomb governing his employment through December 29, 2006, Mr. Lipscomb may elect to diminish the level of his involvement with us or terminate his employment altogether prior to the expiration of this term. A voluntary or involuntary termination of Mr. Lipscomb’s employment would result in a breach of our agreement with the Travel Channel and would have a material adverse effect on our business operations and negatively impact the market price of our common stock. 22 Table of Contents Our continued success also is dependent upon retention of other key management executives, who have been instrumental in our success thus far, and upon our ability to attract and retain employees and on-air talent to implement our corporate development strategy and our branding and licensing efforts. The loss of some of our senior executives, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. Growth in our business is dependent, to a large degree, on our ability to retain and attract such employees. We seek to compensate and incentivize our key executives, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries, stock ownership and bonus plans, but we can make no assurance that these programs will allow us to retain key employees or hire new employees. In addition, future success may also be affected by the potential need to replace our key on-air talent at an inopportune time (such as midway through the tapings of a season of the World Poker Tour television programs). A decline in general economic conditions or the popularity of our brand of televised poker tournaments could adversely impact our business. Because our operations are affected by general economic conditions and consumer tastes, our future success is unpredictable. The demand for entertainment and leisure activities tends to be highly sensitive to consumers’ disposable incomes, and thus a decline in general economic conditions could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and the price of our common stock. An economic decline could also adversely affect our corporate sponsorship business, sales of our branded merchandise and other aspects of our business. The continued popularity of our type of entertainment is vital in maintaining the ability to leverage our brand and develop products and/or services that appeal to our target audiences, which, in turn, is important to our long-term results of operations. Public tastes are unpredictable and subject to change and may be affected by changes in the country’s political and social climate. A change in public tastes could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and the price of our common stock. The political or social climate regarding gaming and poker could negatively impact our ability to negotiate future broadcast license arrangements, retain certain of our member casinos or pursue Internet gaming ventures as a potential source of future revenue. Although the popularity of poker in particular and gaming in general has recently been growing in the United States and abroad, gaming has historically experienced backlash from various constituencies and communities. Currently, the legal status of Internet-based casinos and cardrooms is unclear under United States law and under the laws of other countries. Based on the uncertain regulatory environment surrounding the marketing and promotion of Internet-based casinos and cardrooms to viewers in the United States, the Travel Channel (which has final edit rights to the shows that it telecasts) has indicated it will likely not display the names or logos of Internet-based casinos and cardrooms in its telecasts. Although none have expressed an intention to do so, the three Internet cardrooms currently serving as member casinos may decide to withdraw from the World Poker Tour. Such a withdrawal would force us 23 Table of Contents to replace the tournaments hosted by these online cardrooms with other events. Despite our belief that we can replace these tournaments, we may ultimately be unable to do so without impacting our production schedule. If our production schedule is impacted, it could have an adverse effect on our operating results during the applicable season and, potentially, the price of our common stock. United States federal prosecutors have contended that online gambling sites are illegal and the United States government has been trying to curb the activities of offshore Internet casinos by investigating and pressuring American companies that provide services to these sites on the theory that they are aiding and abetting the operations. As part of these activities, United States marshals had seized funds from Discovery Communications that initially belonged to a Costa Rica-based Internet casino operation that paid Discovery Communications for television spots to advertise an online poker room. This focus on Internet gambling sites may eliminate these sites as sources of advertising revenue for television networks that exhibit poker-related programming, thereby potentially impacting the value of such programming to these networks. If this occurs, it may negatively impact our ability to negotiate future broadcast license arrangements on terms that are most advantageous to us. On February 3, 2005, the Company finalized its agreement with WagerWorks to develop a WPT-branded real-money gaming website. The site, WPTonline.com, is expected to go live in the second quarter of 2005. WPTonline.com will prohibit bets from players in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where online gaming is prohibited. While the website will be licensed by the Alderney Gaming Commission, and we believe that we will be in compliance with all international regulations, we cannot be certain that we will be allowed to accept wagers in all the markets we plan to enter. We continue to monitor the legality of Internet gaming in domestic and international jurisdictions, but cannot be certain that changes in existing regulations will be beneficial to the online gaming market. Additionally, on-air promotion of WPTonline.com via international World Poker Tour television broadcasts will be a primary marketing tool for driving poker players to the site. However, certain territories and foreign networks may restrict us from incorporating marketing elements related to our online site into our international broadcasts. If these restrictions occur, our costs of customer acquisition may be substantially higher than anticipated. We will face a variety of risks as we expand into new or complementary businesses in the future. Our core operations have consisted of marketing, promoting and licensing our televised entertainment and selling, or licensing the right to manufacture and sell, our branded merchandise. Our current strategic objectives include not only further developing and enhancing our existing business but also entering into new or complementary businesses, such as expansion of our current business operations into international markets and Internet gaming. We are also exploring other opportunities to leverage the World Poker Tour brand, including the potential development of additional television programming and radio programming, book and magazine publishing, creating feature length films for television or theatrical release, launching a television network, among others. The following risks associated with expanding into new or complementary businesses by investment, licensing, acquisition, strategic alliance, co-production or other arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and the price of our common stock: 24 Table of Contents • potential diversion of management’s attention and resources from our existing business and an inability to recruit or develop the necessary management resources to manage new businesses; • unanticipated liabilities or contingencies from new or complementary businesses or ventures; • potential operating losses from new business ventures; • reduced earnings due to potential goodwill impairment charges, increased interest costs and additional costs related to the integration of acquisitions including potential dilution to stockholders; • potential reallocations of resources due to the growing complexity of our business and strategy; • competition from companies then engaged in the new or complementary businesses that we are entering; • possible additional regulatory requirements and compliance costs; • dilution of our stockholders’ percentage ownership and/or an increase of our leverage when issuing equity or convertible debt securities or incurring debt; and • potential unavailability on acceptable terms, or at all, of additional financing necessary for expansion. The television entertainment market in which we operate is highly competitive, and competitors with greater financial resources or marketplace presence may enter our market to our detriment. We compete with other poker-related television programming, including ESPN’s coverage of the World Series of Poker, Fox Sports Net’s exhibition of the Late Night Poker television show and Bravo’s exhibition of the Celebrity Poker Showdown. These and other producers of poker-related programming may be well established and may have significantly greater resources than we do. Based on the popularity of these poker-related televised programs, we believe that additional competing televised poker programs may currently be in development or may be developed in the future. Our programming also competes for broadcast audiences and advertising revenue with broadcasts of mainstream professional and amateur sports as well as other entertainment and leisure activities. These competing programs and activities, and brands that may result therefrom, may decrease the popularity of the World Poker Tour series and dilute the World Poker Tour brand. This would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition and, ultimately, the price of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents Our proposed expansion into foreign markets will subject us to additional business risks. We intend to further expand our business in foreign markets, including international distribution of our U.S. broadcasts, creating additional poker tours in foreign countries, distributing branded merchandise in foreign countries and pursuing Internet gaming ventures in international markets. Our international operations could be adversely affected by changes in political and economic conditions, trade protection measures and the status of regulatory requirements that may restrict the sales of our products, increases in costs of foreign production or other costs or prohibit Internet gaming activities in international jurisdictions. Also, changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could potentially result in increases or decreases in our costs and earnings. Lakes Entertainment, Inc. remains the majority shareholder of the company and is able to effectively control our management and operations. Lakes Entertainment, Inc. through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Lakes Poker Tour, LLC, owns 12,480,000 shares of our outstanding common stock, representing approximately 63% of our voting power. Lakes Entertainment, together with our directors and executive officers, beneficially owns 15,480,000 shares of our common stock, which represents approximately 78% of our voting power. As a result, Lakes Entertainment, Inc., either alone or together with our directors and executive officers, has the ability to control our management and affairs through the election and removal of our entire Board of Directors and effectively controls the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the future merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. As a result, the return on your investment in our common stock through the market price of our common stock or ultimate sale of our business could be adversely affected. Our board of directors’ ability to issue undesignated preferred stock and the existence of anti-takeover provisions may depress the value of our common stock. Our authorized capital includes 20 million shares of undesignated preferred stock. Our board of directors has the power to issue any or all of the shares of preferred stock, including the authority to establish one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences, rights and limitations of such class or series, without seeking stockholder approval, subject to certain limitations on this power under Nasdaq listing requirements. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law regarding “business combinations.” We may, in the future, consider adopting additional anti-takeover measures. The authority of our board to issue undesignated stock and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law, as well as any future anti-takeover measures adopted by us, may, in certain circumstances, delay, deter or prevent takeover attempts and other changes in control of the company not approved by our board of directors. As a result, our stockholders may lose opportunities to dispose of their shares at favorable prices generally available in takeover attempts or that may be available under a merger proposal and the market price, voting and other rights of the holders of common stock may also be affected. 26 Table of Contents Certain shares in our initial public offering were offered in violation of Securities Act of 1933, which gives purchasers of these shares the right to rescind their purchases. In an attempt to identify potential participants in a directed share program related to our initial public offering, our President and the President of Lakes Entertainment, Inc. (our parent corporation) sent a total of six e-mail communications regarding the offering to a total of 163 separate people that included our employees, employees of Lakes Entertainment and certain individuals associated with our strategic partners. Our President sent four e-mail communications to a total of 137 people during the period from March 9, 2004 to March 11, 2004. On April 28, 2004, our President sent one additional email to our employees, all of whom had received one of our previous e-mails. Each of these e-mails referenced a contemplated public offering of our common stock, and the initial four e-mails inquired whether the recipient had an interest in being contacted by a broker to purchase shares of our common stock at the initial public offering price. The April 28, 2004 e-mail also asked that if people were interested in participating in the offering, or knew of others that would have such an interest, that they provide us with information regarding the number of shares they would be interested in purchasing. The President of Lakes Entertainment sent one e-mail communication to 26 additional people on June 11, 2004. This e-mail stated that the representative of the underwriters would be setting aside approximately five percent of the shares in the offering in connection with a directed share program, explained that participants in the directed share program would be prevented from selling their shares for a period of 180 days following the offering and asked interested people to indicate the number of shares they were interested in purchasing. Based on indications of interest received by us and by Lakes Entertainment, we identified participants in the contemplated directed share program and previously allocated a total of 200,000 shares to them. Historically, the Securities and Exchange Commission has taken the position that a written communication of this kind that is not accompanied by a preliminary prospectus constitutes a prospectus that does not meet the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933. Because the Company’s communications were not accompanied by a preliminary prospectus (and did not themselves contain the information required to be in a prospectus), the communications constituted offers in violation of the Securities Act. As a result, we are subject to contingent liabilities to investors who received these communications and purchase shares in the offering, whether or not as part of the directed share program. In particular, these investors have the right under federal securities laws to rescind these purchases for a period of one year from the date of the violation. As a result of these contingent liabilities, and in an attempt to limit our known exposure from them, we reduced the directed share program from our originally contemplated 200,000 shares to 75,200 shares and limited participation to certain non-employees. Based on this number of shares, we could be required to refund up to $602,000 (75,200 shares at the initial public offering price of $8.00), plus interest. We sent a letter to all other prospective participants, advising them that they were not allowed to purchase the shares being offered. However, we cannot assure you that these, or other individuals that received e-mail communications, did not ultimately purchase shares in the offering. In addition, it is possible that an unknown number of shares were purchased by individuals to whom the e-mail communications may have been forwarded. Because all such individuals may have rescission rights, the amount of money we may be required to refund to investors may be significantly higher than the $602,000 estimate, and the potential liability cannot be estimated at this time. As of March 1, 2005, we have not received notice of any rescission requests. 27 Table of Contents 