ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Reference is made in particular to the description of our plans and objectives for future operations, assumptions underlying such plans and objectives and other forward-looking statements included in this section, “Item 1 Business,” “Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and in other places in this Annual Report. Such statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may”, “will”, “expect”, “believe”, “estimate”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “continue”, or similar terms, variations of such terms or the negative of such terms. Such statements are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based. Factors that could cause such results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include those set forth below. Risks Relating to our Business If search engines alter their algorithms or methods or otherwise restrict the flow of users visiting our Web properties, our business and financial results could suffer. Search engines serve as the primary Web entry point for most users in search of information, and our topic and answer pages often appear as one of the top links on the pages returned by search engines in response to users’ search queries. As a result, we rely heavily on search engines for the overwhelming share of users visiting our Web properties. According to our internal estimates, traffic to our Web properties originating from search engines during the fourth quarter of 2008, excluding Google-directed definition link traffic, was approximately 80% of the overall traffic to our Web properties, the majority of which originated from Google and, to a lesser but still significant extent, Yahoo!. WikiAnswers.com search engine traffic during the same period was even more significant, amounting to approximately 90% of its overall traffic. If our traffic from search engines declines for any reason, we would suffer a significant decline in overall traffic and revenue. For example, in July 2007, a search engine algorithm adjustment by Google led to a drop in Google directed traffic to Answers.com. This adjustment reduced our overall traffic by approximately 28% based on the average traffic directed to Answers.com from Google for the week prior to the adjustment as compared to the week after. As a result, our revenue declined proportionately. In September 2007, Yahoo! dropped our content from its search index, which led to a drop in our Yahoo! directed traffic. This action was reversed within a week. Search engines, at any time and for any reason, could change their algorithms that direct search queries to our Web properties or could restrict the flow of users visiting our Web properties specifically. In fact, as illustrated above, on occasion our Web properties – which both rely so heavily on search engine traffic – have experienced decreases in traffic, and consequently in revenue, due to these search engine actions. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully react to these actions in the future and recover the lost traffic. Accordingly, a change in algorithms that search engines use to identify Web pages towards which traffic will ultimately be directed, or a restriction on users visiting our Web properties from the search engines, could cause a significant decrease in traffic and revenues, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. 18 Table of Contents If the Google Services Agreement (GSA) is terminated by Google, we would have to seek an alternative provider of listings and advertisements, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Our business is dependent on the GSA, under which we obtain most of the advertisements displayed on our Web properties and earn most of our ad revenues. Google may terminate the GSA with no advance notice if we: · take certain prohibited actions including, among other things: o redirecting end users, producing or distributing any software which prevents the display of ads by Google, o editing or modifying the order of search results, o modifying, adapting or otherwise attempting to obtain source code from Google technology, content, software and documentation, or o engaging in any action or practice that reflects poorly on Google or otherwise disparaging or devaluing Google’s reputation or goodwill; · breach the grant of a license to us by Google of certain trade names, trademarks, service marks, logos, domain names and other distinctive brand features of Google; · breach the confidentiality provisions of the GSA; · breach the exclusivity provisions of the GSA; or · materially breach the GSA more than two times, irrespective of any cure to such breaches. The GSA is scheduled to expire on January 31, 2010, unless renewed upon mutual written consent. Google’s termination of the GSA would result in our need to replace this relationship and obtain listings and advertisements from alternative providers, and we may not succeed in receiving equally favorable terms as those provided in the GSA. Termination of the GSA and our failure to replace it on equally favorable terms could result in a material reduction in our ad revenues and could adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition, a renewal of the GSA in February 2010 on terms less favorable to us than the current terms, including the revenue-share percentage, could result in a material reduction in our ad revenues and could adversely affect our business and financial results. A downturn in the United States and global economic conditions could adversely affect the profitability of our business. The U.S. and global economies are currently experiencing a significant contraction, and it is expected that we will see further economic downturn in the immediate and near future. This may result in fewer page views that result in commercial activities by our users, and may cause advertisers to reduce the amount they spend on online advertising, thus having a significant negative impact on the RPMs of both our Web properties in 2009 and beyond. A drop in RPM may result in a material reduction in our ad revenues which would adversely affect our business and financial results. The failure of WikiAnswers.com to grow in accordance with our expectations could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. WikiAnswers.com is currently our primary growth driver, and it exceeds Answers.com in both traffic and revenue. Our projections assume that the 2009 growth of WikiAnswers.com will continue to be greater than that of Answers.com. If, for whatever reason, WikiAnswers.com fails to perform as well as we anticipate, and the growth we are experiencing decelerates significantly, falters or ceases, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. If Internet users do not interact with WikiAnswers.com frequently or if we fail to attract new users to the service, our business and financial results will suffer. The success of WikiAnswers.com is largely dependent upon users constantly visiting the site by asking questions, posting answers and improving upon both. We have seen a very high correlation between growth in questions and answers and growth in the site’s page views. We need to attract users to visit the Web property frequently and spend increasing amounts of time on the Web property when they visit. If we are unable to encourage users to interact more frequently with WikiAnswers.com and to increase the amount of user generated content they provide, our ability to attract new users to the Web property and increase the number of loyal users will be diminished and adversely affected. As a result, our business and financial results will suffer, and we will not be able to grow our business as planned. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to improve and maintain the quality of content being contributed to WikiAnswers.com, and if we fail to fight vandalism the site has been experiencing, the Web property will become less valuable to the users, less popular as a destination for obtaining answers to questions and its growth will be negatively affected, which in turn could adversely impact our financial results. It is critical that we ensure that the quality of content being posted on WikiAnswers.com, both questions and answers, is maintained to as high an extent as reasonable, and improved over time. The better the quality of the content generated on the Web property, the more valuable the Web property will be for users in search of answers, as well as for search engines indexing the content to continue featuring it in their search engine result pages. Improved quality content should lead to stronger growth in the community size and will lessen the risk of a search engine’s algorithm and/or policy makers downgrading the rank of WikiAnswers.com. In addition, it is critical that we ward off vandals and eliminate vandalism on the Web property to the greatest extent possible. If we fail to maintain and improve the quality of the Web property’s content, the appeal of WikiAnswers.com to users and search engines may diminish and the growth of the Web property may be negatively affected, which in turn could cause our financial results to suffer. If, in the interest of improving user experience and user satisfaction, we decide to decrease the number of ad elements displayed on our Web properties, our advertising revenues will decline and our financial results will be adversely impacted. We closely monitor the ratio between ad elements and actual content appearing on our Web pages. In the future we may decide that in order to enhance the user-experience and increase user satisfaction, our pages should display fewer ad elements. Displaying less ad-intensive Web pages is likely to result in faster page-load and offering more content per-page is likely to appeal more to the user. A better user experience may result in more stickiness on our Web properties and a higher rate of user-retention and return visits. However, there is no assurance that reducing advertising on our Web properties will result in better user-retention and return visits and there can be no guarantee that the short term reduction in ad revenues will pay off in the long term in the form of increased traffic. A decrease in the number of ad elements displayed on our Web properties will result in a drop in RPM and advertising revenues which may not be recovered through higher traffic, thus having an adverse impact on our results of operations. If we are unable to attract and retain dedicated volunteer supervisors for encouraging the community’s expansion, our plans for growing WikiAnswers.com may fail and our results of operations may be adversely affected. We benefit from the heavy involvement of a large group of external volunteer supervisors who are not employed by us and are not compensated for their site activity. The volunteer supervisors, for their own personal motives and enjoyment, are involved in monitoring questions and answers in specific categories in an effort to help questions get answered quickly. Volunteers also help prevent vandalism, improve content consistency, encourage high-quality contributions and identify potential new volunteers. Volunteers are also engaged in various community programs aimed at strengthening the community and contributors’ sense of connection to the site and the community at large and help instill a sense of camaraderie among users interested in various categories of WikiAnswers.com. As of December 31, 2008, the community enjoyed the benefit of over 500 such supervisors. If we are not able to attract enough volunteers, WikiAnswers.com may suffer and the Web property may become less attractive to users, which in turn will adversely affect the site’s growth, our business and financial results. Alternatively, we may be forced to hire paid employees to engage in many of the initiatives that volunteers currently take upon themselves for their own personal pleasure and gratification, which, in turn, would increase the cost of maintaining and improving WikiAnswers.com and adversely affect our financial results. We benefit from Google's directing of traffic to Answers.com through its definition link, and the loss of this source of traffic could reduce our ad revenues and adversely affect our business and financial results. Approximately 5% of our overall traffic during the fourth quarter of 2008 was directed to Answers.com by the definition link appearing on Google’s website result pages. This traffic includes secondary pages viewed on Answers.com as a result of visitors arriving at the site via the definition performing additional searches. The definition link traffic is the result of a unilateral decision by Google to link certain definitions to Answers.com, and not any contractual relationship. Google may change these links at any time, in its sole discretion. If Google stops directing traffic to Answers.com through its definition link, we would experience a reduction in our traffic and the corresponding ad revenues, which would adversely affect our business and financial results. 20 Table of Contents Components of our business and operations are experiencing rapid growth. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have experienced rapid growth in our operations over the past several years, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational and financial infrastructure. If we do not effectively manage our growth, the quality of our products and services could suffer, which could negatively affect our brand and operating results. To effectively manage this growth, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. These systems enhancements and improvements will require significant capital expenditures and management resources. Failure to implement these improvements could hurt our ability to manage our growth and our financial position. We have a short operating history and a relatively new business model in an emerging and rapidly evolving market. This makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risks that we will not continue to be successful and that our financial results could suffer. There are two primary categories of Internet advertising, pay-per-performance, or most commonly cost per click, or CPC, and pay-per-impression, or cost per 1,000 impressions, or CPM. In the case of performance-based advertising, the advertiser only pays when a user clicks on an ad, as opposed to viewing the ad, as in impression-based advertising. We first derived advertising revenue in the first quarter of 2005, and we have only a short operating history with our CPC and CPM advertising model. As a result, we have very little operating history to aid in assessing our future prospects. Also, we derive nearly all of our revenues from online advertising, which is an immature industry that has undergone rapid and dramatic changes in its short history. We will encounter risks and difficulties as a growing company in a new and rapidly evolving market. We may not be able to successfully address these risks and difficulties, which could materially harm our business and operating results. We may not be able to obtain capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders. We believe we have sufficient cash and cash equivalents to meet our working capital and operating requirements for the next twelve months, based on our current cash and cash equivalent levels and expected cash flow from operations. Further, in estimating our expected cash flow during the next twelve months, we have considered the current general economic downturn and its impact on our future revenue. However, we may need or desire additional financing to execute on our current or future business strategies, including to: · acquire businesses or technologies; · improve and expand content on our Web properties; · otherwise respond to competitive pressures; and · enhance our operating infrastructure. If we decide to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, and are successful at raising such capital, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all, particularly in light of the weakness of the financial markets and the economic crisis. For example, we experienced such financing difficulties during the course of our recent failed attempt to acquire Lexico Publishing Group, LLC and our ultimate abandonment of a follow-on offering. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, when we desire them, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our services, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. New technologies could block Internet ads, which could harm our financial results. Technologies have been developed, and are likely to continue to be developed, that can block the display of Internet ads. Most of our revenues are derived from fees paid to us by advertisers in connection with the display of their ads. Ad-blocking technology may cause a decrease in the number of ads that we can display on our Web properties, which could adversely affect our ad revenues and our financial results. 21 Table of Contents We face significant competition from question and answer sites, search engines and other free reference and industry-specific Web properties that could adversely impact our competitive position. We face significant competition from a wide variety of Web properties. Question and answer sites, such as Yahoo! Answers, Askville (owned by Amazon), Live QnA (owned by Microsoft), Yedda (owned by AOL), Answerbag.com (owned by Demand Media, Inc.) and Wikia, Inc. compete with WikiAnswers.com. Destination portals and other free online information and/or reference services, such as About.com (owned by the New York Times), TheFreeDictionary.com, Dictionary.com (owned by IAC/InterActiveCorp) and Wikipedia.org, compete with Answers.com. Other competitors of Answers.com include vertical industry-specific Web properties, such as Bankrate.com and WebMD.com. Since several companies operating traditional search engines, such as Yahoo!, Microsoft, AOL and Ask.com offer their own question and answer services, they too can be viewed as competitors of our answers-driven products, particularly in light of the fact that some search engines have begun putting snippets of useful answers at the top of many of their pages, in response to queries made by users. Nevertheless, search engines remain the greatest source of traffic arriving at our Web properties. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, more extensive management experience, an employee base with more extensive experience, better geographic coverage, larger consumer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resource than we do. We expect competition to intensify in the future. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing compelling products or attracting and retaining more users, then our competitive position and financial results could be adversely affected. Our failure to generate direct traffic to our Web properties could adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition to search engine traffic and traffic directed by the Google definition link, our traffic also originates from Internet users arriving at our Web properties directly by typing our website address directly into their Web browser, bookmarking our Web properties, using AnswerTips and visiting sites that direct users to our Web properties. Given the wide availability of free search engines and reference content sites, we may not be able to retain current Internet users or attract new Internet users in this direct fashion. If we are unable to retain our direct Internet users or attract new direct Internet users, our ability to generate revenues would be adversely impacted, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Traffic to our Web properties and advertising demand fluctuates significantly on a seasonal basis, which impacts our operations from quarter to quarter. Many of our users are students that utilize our Web properties as reference sources. Our traffic fluctuates with the academic school year, rising from January through May, falling to lower levels during the summer months, rising again in September through November, and falling again in December, coinciding with school breaks and the holiday season. We expect traffic to our Web properties to continue to fluctuate seasonally in the future. This seasonal fluctuation in traffic results in a fluctuation in our quarterly revenues, since fewer users to our Web properties translates into fewer users clicking on or viewing the advertisements on our Web properties. In addition, the demand for our advertising inventory fluctuates during the year based on the seasonal needs of our advertisers, rising to its highest levels during the fourth quarter and falling to its lowest levels in the first quarter. Accordingly, our revenue fluctuates based on the seasonality of our traffic and advertising demand. The effect of this seasonality makes it difficult to estimate future revenues based on the results of any specific quarter, thus it is difficult to make operating plans relating to hiring and expenses. Additionally, as a result of the difficulty to estimate revenues, we may be unable to meet our revenue or profit and loss forecasts which could have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis difficult and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our quarterly, year-to-date and annual expenses as a percentage of our revenues may differ significantly from our historical or projected rates. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these events could cause our stock price to fall. 22 Table of Contents We may not be successful in expanding our business through acquisitions, business combinations and other transactions, and, even if we are successful, our operations may be adversely affected as a result of these transactions. We may pursue acquisitions, business combinations and joint ventures, which we refer to as extraordinary transactions. Our ability to implement this business strategy depends in large part on our ability to compete successfully with other entities for acquisition candidates and joint venture partners. Factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include: • our financial condition and resources relative to the financial condition and resources of competitors; • our ability to issue common stock as potential consideration; • the attractiveness of our common stock as potential consideration relative to the common stock of competitors; • our ability to obtain financing; and • our available cash, which depends upon our results of operations and our cash demands. In addition, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, or such acquisitions may be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets or investors. In addition, any acquisitions that we make could lead to difficulties in integrating personnel and operations from the acquired businesses and in retaining and motivating key personnel from these businesses. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses or adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. For example, we experienced such disruption, diversion and increased expenses during the course of our recent failed attempt to acquire Lexico Publishing Group, LLC. Future acquisitions may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses and could result in an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. If we fail to maintain and enhance awareness of our Web properties, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. We believe that maintaining and enhancing awareness of our Web properties is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our services and to the success of our business. We also believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase due to the relatively low barriers to entry in our market. Maintaining and enhancing our Web properties may require us to spend increasing amounts of money on, and devote greater resources to, advertising, marketing and other brand-building efforts, and these investments may not be successful. Further, even if these efforts are successful, they may not be cost-effective. If we are unable to continuously maintain and enhance our Web properties, our traffic may decrease and we may fail to attract advertisers, which could in turn result in lost revenues and adversely affect our business and financial results. Our failure to license compelling content could result in lost revenue, as a result of a loss of users and advertisers. We believe our future success depends in part upon our ability to deliver valuable content through our Web properties. While our user-generated content continues to grow, we continue to also utilize traditional licensed content. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to enter into new or renew current or future content agreements on commercially acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to maintain and enhance our existing relationships with content providers or develop new relationships with alternative providers of content, our Answers.com service may become less attractive to Internet users, resulting in decreased traffic to Answers.com, which could have an adverse effect on our ad revenues and a negative impact on our business. 23 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain and expand our computer and communications systems, then interruptions and failures in our services could result, making our services less attractive to consumers and subjecting us to lost revenue from the loss of users and advertisers. Our ability to provide high quality user experience depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. Over time, our Web properties have experienced significant increases in traffic, and we continuously seek to further increase our user base. Accordingly, our Internet servers must accommodate spikes in demand for our Web pages in addition to potential significant growth in traffic. Delays and interruptions could frustrate users and reduce traffic on our Web properties, adversely affecting our operations and growth prospects. Furthermore, our systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our systems, which could adversely affect our operations. We manage our Answers.com and WikiAnswers.com Web operations through our own colocation facility. Our colocation facility, located in New Jersey, is provided by NetAccess Corporation. We plan to add a second colocation site in the first half of 2009 in order to provide redundancy of Web operations at the data center level. Until such time, our operations are centered in one single data center facility. Our single facility could suffer interruptions or failures in service. Our Web operations would be adversely affected, making our services less attractive to consumers and subjecting us to lost revenue. Additionally, if we are unable to recruit and retain skilled employees to manage the Web hosting operations, we may not be able to properly manage the necessary tasks to keep our systems running smoothly and grow the business. If we were to lose the services of our key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business plan and our business could be adversely affected. Our ability to execute our business plan depends upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key technology, marketing, sales and support personnel. Our employment agreements with our executive officers and key employees are terminable by either party upon 30-90 days notice. If we lose the services of one or more of our key employees, or if one or more of our executive officers or key employees joined a competitor or otherwise competed with us, our business could be adversely affected. We cannot give assurance that we will be able to retain or replace our key personnel, and the services of key members of our research and development team, in particular, would be difficult to replace. If we do not succeed in retaining or replacing our key personnel, we may be unable to execute our business plan and, as a result, our stock price may decline. Our business depends on increasing use of the Internet by users searching for information, advertisers marketing products and services and Web properties seeking to earn revenue to support their Web content. If the Internet infrastructure does not grow and is not maintained to support these activities, our business will be harmed. Our success will depend on the continued growth and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security for providing reliable Internet services. Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it if the number of Internet users continues to increase, or if existing or future Internet users access the Internet more often or increase their bandwidth requirements. In addition, viruses, worms and similar programs may harm the performance of the Internet. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, and could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage as well as our ability to provide our solutions. Rules established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, require us to expense equity compensation given to our employees and may impact our ability to effectively utilize equity compensation to attract and retain employees. The FASB has adopted changes that require companies to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives effective January 1, 2006, which we have adopted. These accounting changes may cause us to reduce the availability and amount of equity incentives provided to employees, which may make it more difficult for us to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. Additionally, it may be difficult for us to estimate the impact of such compensation charges on future operating results because they will be based upon the fair market value of our common stock and other assumptions at future dates. 24 Table of Contents We may be subject to liability for online services, which may not be limited by the safe harbors in The Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA, The Communications Decency Act, or CDA, or the U.S. Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, or COPPA. If we do not meet the safe harbor requirements, or if it is otherwise determined that our Web properties contain actionable content, we could be subject to claims, which could be costly and time-consuming to defend. We host certain services that enable individuals to generate content and engage in various online activities. The law relating to the liability of providers of these online services for activities of their users is currently unsettled both within the United States and internationally. Claims have been threatened and may in the future be brought against us for defamation, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud, or other theories based on the nature and content of information to which we provide links, or that may be posted online or generated by the users of our Web properties. Our defense of any of these actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources. The DMCA is intended, among other things, to reduce the liability of online service providers for listing or linking to third party Web properties that include materials that infringe copyrights or rights of others. Additionally, portions of the CDA are intended to provide statutory protections to online service providers who distribute third party content. A safe harbor for copyright infringement is also available under the DMCA to certain online service providers that provide specific services, if the providers take certain affirmative steps as set forth in the DMCA. Important questions regarding the safe harbor under the DMCA and the CDA have yet to be litigated, and we can not guarantee that we will meet the safe harbor requirements of the DMCA or of the CDA. If we are not covered by a safe harbor, for any reason, we could be exposed to claims, which could be costly and time-consuming to defend. In addition, COPPA was enacted in October 1998. COPPA imposes civil and criminal penalties on persons distributing material harmful to minors over the Internet to persons under the age of 17 or collecting personal information from children under the age of 13. We do not knowingly collect and disclose personal information from minors. The manner in which COPPA may be interpreted and enforced cannot yet be determined. Moreover, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyright, defamation, obscenity and personal privacy is uncertain. We may be subject to claims that our content violates such laws, which could damage our business and cause our stock price to decline. We also periodically enter into arrangements to offer third party products, services or content under the Answers brand or through our Web properties. We may be subject to claims concerning these products, services or content by virtue of our involvement in marketing, branding, broadcasting or providing access to them, even if we do not ourselves host, operate, provide, or provide access to them. It is also possible that, if any information provided directly by us contains errors or is otherwise negligently provided to users, third parties could make claims against us. While it is our belief that the Terms of Use governing the use of our Web properties covers us against these types of claims, there are no assurances as to the final determination of these types of claims by any court of law. Furthermore, investigating and defending any of these types of claims is expensive, even to the extent that the claims are without merit or do not ultimately result in liability. Third parties may claim that we are infringing on their patents, trademarks or copyrights, which could result in substantial costs, diversion of significant managerial resources and significant harm to our reputation. The industry in which we operate is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. We expect that Internet technologies, software products and services may be increasingly subject to third party patent infringement claims as the number of competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. From time to time, third parties may assert patent infringement claims against us in various jurisdictions that are important to our business. Additionally, third parties may assert trademark infringement claims with respect to brand names we use from time to time and content we display on our Web properties. For example, a third party may make claims against us over the display of search results triggered by search terms that include trademark terms. Furthermore, we may be faced with copyright infringement claims. We have received, and are likely to continue to receive, “cease and desist” letters demanding that we remove infringing content from our Web properties based on a theory of copyright and trademark infringement. 25 Table of Contents A successful patent, trademark or copyright infringement claim against us by any third party, could subject us to: • substantial liability for damages and litigation costs, including attorneys’ fees; • lawsuits that prevent us from further use of intellectual property and require us to permanently cease and desist from selling or marketing products that use the intellectual property; • licensing intellectual property from a third party, which could include significant licensing and royalty fees not presently paid by us, adding materially to our costs of operations; • developing new intellectual property, as a non-infringing alternative, that could delay projects, add materially to our costs of operations and be unacceptable to our users, which in turn could adversely affect our traffic and revenues; and • indemnifying third parties who have entered into agreements with us with respect to losses they incurred as a result of the infringement, which could include consequential and incidental damages that are material in amount. Regardless of the merit of third party infringement claims, these claims could result in substantial costs, diversion of significant resources and management attention, termination of customer contracts, loss of customers and significant harm to our reputation. Finally, many of our agreements with advertisers, distribution partners, and other third party partners require us to indemnify these partners for certain third party intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase our costs as a result of defending the claims and may require that we pay damages if there were an adverse ruling in any of the claims. An adverse determination could also prevent us from offering our products and services to others and may require that we procure substitute products or services, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Misappropriation of our intellectual property could harm our reputation, adversely affecting our competitive position and financial results. Our ability to compete depends in part upon the strength of our proprietary rights in our technologies, brands and content. We rely on a combination of U.S. and foreign patents, copyrights, trademark, trade secret laws and license agreements to establish and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. The efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective at stopping unauthorized use of our intellectual property. In addition, effective trademark, domain name, patent, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available or cost-effective in every country in which our services are made available through the Internet. There may be instances where we are not able to fully protect or utilize our intellectual property in a manner that maximizes competitive advantage. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights from unauthorized use, the value of our Web properties may be reduced, which could negatively impact our business. In addition, protecting our intellectual property and other proprietary rights is expensive and diverts critical managerial resources. If any of the foregoing were to occur, or if we are otherwise unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. We have incurred significant and continuing net losses since our inception and may continue to incur losses. We incurred net losses of approximately $12.3 million and $4.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $71 million. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve net income on a quarterly or annual basis. If our revenues do not increase, or if our operating expenses exceed expectations or cannot be reduced, we will continue to incur substantial losses, which would materially adversely affect our business and financial results. 26 Table of Contents New government regulation and legal uncertainties could require us to incur significant expenses. The laws and regulations applicable to the Internet, and to our products and services, are evolving and unclear and could damage our business. In addition, we will be subject to any new laws and regulations directly applicable to our products and services. It is possible that laws and regulations may be adopted covering issues such as user privacy, pricing, taxation, content regulation, quality of products and services, and intellectual property ownership and infringement. This legislation could expose us to substantial liability as well as dampen the growth in use of the Internet generally, decrease the acceptance of the Internet as a communications and commercial medium, or require us to incur significant compliance expenses. Compliance with these laws and regulations may also cause us to change or limit our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Increased regulation or the imposition of access fees could substantially increase the costs of communicating on the Internet, potentially decreasing the demand for our products. A number of proposals have been made at the federal, state and local level that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods and services through the Internet. Such proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of electronic commerce and could adversely affect us. Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that the governments of other states and foreign countries might attempt to regulate its transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. We might unintentionally violate these laws. Such laws may be modified, or new laws may be enacted, in the future. Our business may be negatively affected by a variety of new or existing laws and regulations, which may expose us to substantial compliance costs and liabilities and may impede the growth in use of the Internet generally. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our common stock may be affected by limited trading volume and may fluctuate significantly. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Although an active trading market has developed for our common stock, there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will be sustained. Failure to maintain an active trading market for our common stock may adversely affect our shareholders’ ability to sell our common stock in short time periods, or at all. Our common stock has experienced, and may experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. You may experience dilution in your percentage ownership interest as a result of any additional issuances of our common stock. We have authorized 100 million shares of our common stock, of which approximately 15.1 million shares were issued and outstanding after giving effect to the assumed exercise of all outstanding warrants and options and assumed conversion of preferred stock as of December 31, 2008. Our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders in many cases, to issue all or a part of any authorized but unissued shares. Such stock issuances may be made at a price that reflects a discount from the then-current trading price of our common stock. In addition, we may need to issue securities that are convertible into or exercisable for a significant amount of our common stock. For example, on June 16, 2008, we sold Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and related warrants for $6.0 million to Redpoint Ventures. Additionally, Redpoint Ventures is in possession of a warrant entitling the fund to invest a second tranche in the amount of $7.0 million, in exchange for Series B Convertible Preferred Stock and related warrants. See “Redpoint Financing” discussion in Item 7 below for a description of these transactions and the related securities. These issuances may dilute your percentage ownership interest, which will have the effect of reducing your influence on matters on which our stockholders vote. You may incur additional dilution if holders of stock options, whether currently outstanding or subsequently granted, exercise their options or if warrant holders exercise their warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. In addition, these issuances, or the perception that such issuances may occur in the future, may have a depressant effect on our stock price and make it more difficult to raise capital in the future on reasonable terms or at all. 27 Table of Contents There may be substantial sales of our common stock, which could cause our stock price to fall. All of our issued and outstanding shares are immediately available for sale in the public market without registration under Rule 144. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause the price of our securities to fall and could impair our ability to raise capital by selling additional securities. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We may incur penalties if the registration statement covering the common stock underlying the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and the Common Stock Purchase Warrants does not remain effective. Under the terms of the registration rights agreement we entered into with the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, we are obligated to register the common stock underlying the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and the Common Stock Purchase Warrants. The registration rights carry penalties in the event we do not meet these registration obligations. The registration statement registering the common stock underlying the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and the Common Stock Purchase Warrants was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 16, 2008. We agreed to use our commercially reasonable best efforts to ensure the continued effectiveness of the registration statement thereafter. In the event sales of any or all of the securities covered by the registration statement cannot be made, whether because of our failure to keep the registration statement effective, or for various other reasons, then we must pay liquidated damages in cash to the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock in the amount of 1.0% per month, on a daily pro rata basis, up to a maximum of 8.0%, of the aggregate purchase price of $6,000,000. We have issued and could issue “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval with the effect of diluting then current stockholder interests. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 1,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue a series of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, which could dilute the interest of, or impair the voting power of, our stockholders. The issuance of a series of preferred stock could be used as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. Although we do not presently intend to issue any additional shares of preferred stock, we may do so in the future. On June 16, 2008, we issued 60,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to Redpoint Ventures. In the event Redpoint Ventures exercises a warrant we granted it, we will issue shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. The holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to receive liquidation payments in preference to the holders of our common stock. Pursuant to the terms of the certificate of designation creating the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, upon a liquidation of our company, the holders of shares of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to receive a liquidation payment prior to the payment of any amount with respect to the shares of our common stock. The amount of this preferential liquidation payment is equal to the greater of (i) $100 per share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, plus the amount of any accrued but unpaid dividends on those shares and any other fees or liquidated damages owing thereon or (ii) such amount per share as would have been payable had all shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock been upon any such liquidation converted to common stock immediately prior to such liquidation. Dividends accrue on the shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock at a rate of 6% per annum. In addition, in the event the Unit Warrant is exercised we will issue up to 70,000 shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. If issued, the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock would have pari passu rights with the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock upon a liquidation of our company to receive a liquidation payment prior to the payment of any amount with respect to the shares of our common stock on substantially similar terms as the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. 28 Table of Contents Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our board of directors is divided into three classes, with one class being elected each year by our stockholders, which generally makes it more difficult for stockholders to replace a majority of directors and obtain control of our board. In addition, stockholder meetings may be called only by our board of directors, the chairman of the board and the president, advance notice is required prior to stockholder proposals and stockholders may not act by written consent. Furthermore, we have authorized preferred stock that is undesignated, making it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to change control of our company. Delaware law also could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Specifically, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to which our company is subject, may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors, including discouraging attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares of common stock held by our stockholders. We are at risk of securities class action litigation. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because Internet companies often experience significant stock price volatility. If we faced such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2007, we determined that we had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and trading price of our stock. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As of December 31, 2007, we were also required to obtain and disclose a report by our independent registered public accounting firm attesting to and reporting on these controls. We dedicated significant amounts of time and resources to ensure compliance with this legislation for the year ended December 31, 2007. Based on their evaluation, our principal executive and principal financial officers concluded that, as of December 31, 2007, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective due to the material weaknesses in our internal controls over (i) access to, and changes in, our information technology financial applications and underlying financial data; and (ii) the authority of our officers to obligate the Company. Because of these material weaknesses, our management concluded that, as of December 31, 2007, we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Additionally, our auditors issued an adverse opinion with respect to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. Although we remediated the material weaknesses by removing our controller as the information technology administrator for our enterprise resource management system in March 2008 and by adopting an approval policy that limits the authority of certain officers to obligate us in April 2008, current and potential stockholders could negatively view the abovementioned material weaknesses and lose confidence in our financial reporting which could harm our business and trading price of our common stock. 29 Table of Contents Material weaknesses in our internal controls may impede our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements, which could cause us to fail to file our periodic reports timely, result in inaccurate financial reporting or restatements of our financial statements, subject our stock to delisting and materially harm our business reputation and stock price. As a public company, we are required to file annual and quarterly periodic reports containing our financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission within prescribed time periods. As part of The NASDAQ Capital Market listing requirements, we are also required to provide our periodic reports, or make them available, to our shareholders within prescribed time periods. If we are required to restate our financial statements in the future, any specific adjustment may be adverse and may cause our operating results and financial condition, as restated, on an overall basis to be materially and adversely impacted. As a result, we or members of our management could be the subject of adverse publicity, investigations and sanctions by such regulatory authorities as the Securities and Exchange Commission and subject to shareholder lawsuits. Any of the above consequences could cause our stock price to decline materially and could impose significant unanticipated costs on us. If we are not able to issue our financial statements in a timely manner, we will not be able to comply with the periodic reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the listing requirements of The NASDAQ Capital Market. If these events occur, our common stock listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market could be suspended or terminated and our stock price could materially suffer. In addition, we or members of our management could be subject to investigation and sanction by the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory authorities and to shareholder lawsuits, which could impose significant additional costs on us, divert management attention and materially harm our operating results, financial condition, business reputation and stock price. Risks Related to our Location in Israel Conditions in Israel may limit our ability to produce and sell our product, which would lead to a decrease in revenues. Because most of our operations are conducted in Israel, our operations are directly affected by economic, political and military conditions affecting Israel. Specifically, we could be adversely affected by: · any hostilities involving Israel; · a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army; · the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners; · risks associated with the fact that a certain number of our key employees and one officer reside in what are commonly referred to as occupied territories; · risks associated with outages and disruptions of communications networks due to any hostilities involving Israel; or · a significant downturn in the economic or financial conditions in Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Despite negotiations to effect peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors, the future of these peace efforts is uncertain. Since October 2000, there has been a significant increase in violence, civil unrest and hostility, including armed clashes between the State of Israel and the Palestinians, and acts of terror have been committed inside Israel and against Israeli targets in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. In addition, the armed conflict with Hezbollah on the northern border of Israel during the summer of 2006 and the most recent armed conflict with Hamas on the southern border of Israel negatively affected business conditions in Israel. There is no indication as to how long the current hostilities will last or whether there will be any further escalation. Any further escalation in these hostilities or any future conflict, political instability or violence in the region may have a negative effect on our business, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. Furthermore, there are a number of countries that restrict business with Israel or with Israeli companies, which may limit our ability to promote our products and services those countries. 30 Table of Contents We may not be able to enforce covenants not-to-compete under current Israeli law that might result in added competition for our products. We have non-competition agreements with all of our employees, almost all of which are governed by Israeli law. These agreements prohibit our employees from competing with or working for our competitors, generally during and for up to 12 months after termination of their employment. However, Israeli courts are reluctant to enforce non-compete undertakings of former employees and tend, if at all, to enforce those provisions for relatively brief periods of time in restricted geographical areas and only when the employee has obtained unique value to the employer specific to that employer’s business and not just regarding the professional development of the employee. If we are not able to enforce non-compete covenants, we may be faced with added competition. The Israeli government tax benefits program in which we currently participate and from which we receive benefits requires us to meet several conditions. These programs or benefits may be terminated or reduced in the future, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. Our Israeli subsidiary receives tax benefits authorized under Israeli law for capital investments that are designated as “Approved Enterprises.” To be eligible for these tax benefits, we must meet certain conditions. If we fail to meet such conditions, these tax benefits could be cancelled, and we could be required to pay increased taxes or refund the amount of tax benefits we received, together with interest and penalties. Israeli governmental authorities have indicated that the government may in the future reduce or eliminate the benefits of such programs. The termination or reduction of these programs and tax benefits could increase our Israeli tax rates, and thereby reduce our net profits or increase our net losses. U.S. and Israeli tax authorities may interpret tax issues in manners other than those which we have adopted, which may expose us to tax liabilities. We operate in the U.S. and in Israel and our earnings are subject to taxation in both jurisdictions, at different rates. Relevant tax authorities may disagree with our interpretation and application in practice of tax laws and may dispute various assumptions we make during our tax planning process. Further, the tax authorities in the U.S. and/or Israel may take exception with the transfer price of transactions between Answers Corporation and its wholly owned Israeli subsidiary. If there is a successful tax challenge of our tax position, our interpretation and/or application of tax laws in practice, we may be forced to recognize additional tax liabilities, which may include interest and penalties. This may harm our results of operations and adversely affect our financial condition. Our business may be impacted by NIS exchange rate fluctuations, which may negatively affect our earnings. Exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the NIS may negatively affect our earnings. Our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, a significant portion of our expenses, associated with our Israeli operations, including personnel and facilities-related expenses, are incurred in NIS. Consequently, a devaluation of the U.S. dollar in comparison to the NIS will have the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our operations in Israel. In 2008 and 2007, the average value of the dollar declined 12.7% and 7.8%, respectively, as compared to its value in the years immediately preceding such years. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of devaluation or appreciation of the NIS against the U.S. dollar or of the U.S. dollar against the NIS. Despite the fact that we often use various hedging tools, including forward contracts and options, to minimize the effect of currency fluctuations on our income, if the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel increases, our dollar-measured consolidated results of operations will be adversely affected. 31 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 