ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks set forth below, in addition to the other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition to the risks set forth below and the other risks described in this annual report, there may also be additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. As a result, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. Financial reform legislation recently enacted by Congress will, among other things, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. Congress recently enacted the Dodd-Frank Act. This new law will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare 39 numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term effect on us. For example, the new law provides that the Office of Thrift Supervision, which is the current primary federal regulator for First Clover Leaf Bank, will cease to exist one year from the date of the new law’s enactment. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which is currently the primary federal regulator for national banks, will become the primary federal regulator for federal thrifts. Moreover, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System will supervise and regulate all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision, including First Clover Leaf Financial Corp. Also effective one year after the date of enactment is a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act that eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse effect on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2008, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and authorizes the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. 40 Future legislative or regulatory actions responding to perceived financial and market problems could impair our ability to collect our loans and foreclose on collateral. There have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. Were proposals such as these, or other proposals limiting our rights as a creditor, to be implemented, we could experience increased credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. In addition, there have been legislative proposals to create a federal consumer protection agency that may, among other powers, have the ability to limit our rights as a creditor. Concentration of loans in our primary market area, which has recently experienced an economic downturn, may increase risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the St. Louis metropolitan area, as nearly all of our loans are to customers in this market. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in this market have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as our ability to originate new loans. As such, a continuation of the weakness in real estate values in this market would also lower the value of the collateral securing loans on properties in our market. In addition, a continued weakening in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could negatively affect our financial results. Risks Related to Recent Economic Conditions and Governmental Response Efforts Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. The global, United States and St. Louis economies are experiencing significantly reduced business activity and consumer spending as a result of, among other factors, disruptions in the capital and credit markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business: • a decrease in the demand for loans or other products and services offered by us; • a decrease in the value of our loans or other assets secured by residential or commercial real estate; • a decrease in deposit balances due to overall reductions in the accounts of customers; • an impairment of our investment securities; • an increase in the number of borrowers who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provision for credit losses, which would reduce our earnings. 41 Any future Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premium increases will adversely affect our earnings. On May 22, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. We recorded an expense of $280,000 during the quarter ended June 30, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. Any further special assessments that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation levies will be recorded as an expense during the appropriate period. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation increased the general assessment rate and our prior credits for federal deposit insurance were fully utilized during the quarter ended June 30, 2009. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income. In response to the developments described above, Congress has taken actions that are intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has taken actions to increase insurance coverage on deposit accounts. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and have issued many formal enforcement orders. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors, and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Proposals limiting our rights as a creditor could result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. If our investment in the common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago is classified as other-than-temporarily impaired or as permanently impaired, our earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago. We hold this stock to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago’s advance program. The aggregate cost and fair value of our Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago common stock as of December 31, 2010 was $6.3 million based on its par value. Federal Home Loan Bank common stock is not a marketable security and can only be redeemed by the Federal Home Loan Bank. However, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago is currently not repurchasing excess stock outstanding. In addition, Federal Home Loan Banks may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could materially lower their regulatory capital. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, we believe that there is a risk that our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago common stock could be deemed impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. 42 Our earnings have been negatively affected by the suspension of dividends by the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago since the fourth quarter of 2007 on its common stock. The Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago suspended dividend payments beginning with the fourth quarter of 2007. They did reinstate their dividend payments in the first quarter of 2011, paying a dividend of 0.10%. However, there is no guarantee that we will continue to receive dividends from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago in the near future. We received $129,000 in total dividends from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago during fiscal 2007, and the failure of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago to pay dividends for any quarter will reduce our earnings during that quarter. In addition, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago is an important source of liquidity for us, and any restrictions on their operations may hinder our ability to use it as a liquidity source. We may face increasing deposit-pricing pressures, which may, among other things, reduce our profitability. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of deposits can decrease when our deposit customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market or other non-depository investments, as providing superior expected returns or seek to spread their deposits over several banks to maximize FDIC insurance coverage. Furthermore, technology and other changes have made it more convenient for bank customers to transfer funds into alternative investments, including products offered by other financial institutions or non-bank service providers. Additional increases in short-term interest rates could increase transfers of deposits to higher yielding deposits. Efforts and initiatives we undertake to retain and increase deposits, including deposit pricing, can increase our costs. When bank customers move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments or into higher yielding deposits, or spread their accounts over several banks, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, thus increasing our funding costs. An Inadequate Allowance for Loan Losses Would Negatively Impact Our Results of Operations. We are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to avoid losses. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Volatility and deterioration in the broader economy may also increase our risk of credit losses. The determination of an appropriate level of allowance for loan losses is an inherently uncertain process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control, and charge-offs may exceed current estimates. We evaluate the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate based upon such factors as, including, but not limited to: the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; previous loan loss experience; specific loans that have loss potential; delinquency trends; the estimated fair market value of the collateral; current economic conditions; the views of our regulators; and geographic and industry loan concentrations. If any of our evaluations are incorrect and borrower defaults result in losses exceeding our allowance for loan losses, our results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our allowance will be adequate to cover probable loan losses inherent in our portfolio. 43 The Need to Account for Assets at Market Prices May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. We report certain assets, including investments and securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs to estimate fair value. Because we carry these assets on our books at their fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. Given the continued disruption in the capital markets, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments in future periods with respect to securities in our portfolio. The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the securities and our estimation of the anticipated recovery period. Our Commercial Real Estate, Commercial Business and Construction Loans Expose Us to Increased Credit Risks. At December 31, 2010, our portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $160.8 million, or 39.9% of total loans, our commercial business loan portfolio totaled $51.7 million, or 12.8% of total loans, and our portfolio of construction and land loans totaled $53.6 million, or 13.3% of total loans. We plan to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans. Commercial real estate, commercial business and construction loans generally have greater credit risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of these loans often depends on the successful business operations of the borrowers. These loans typically have larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Many of our borrowers also have more than one commercial real estate, commercial business or construction loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship may expose us to significantly greater risk of loss, compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Changes in the Value of Goodwill and Intangible Assets Could Reduce Our Earnings and Stockholders’ Equity. We are required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles to test goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment at least annually. Testing for impairment of goodwill and intangible assets involves the identification of reporting units and the estimation of fair values. The estimation of fair values involves a high degree of judgment and subjectivity in the assumptions used. As of December 31, 2010, if our goodwill and intangible assets were fully impaired and we were required to charge-off all of our goodwill and intangible assets, the pro forma reduction to our stockholders’ equity would be approximately $1.60 per share. However, we performed our annual evaluation for impairment of goodwill and intangible assets as of September 30, 2010, and it is management’s opinion that we were not impaired at that time. Our ability to originate mortgage loans for portfolio has been adversely affected by the increased competition resulting from the unprecedented involvement of the U.S. government and GSEs in the residential mortgage market. Over the past few years, we have faced increased competition for mortgage loans due to the unprecedented involvement of government-sponsored entities (“GSEs”) in the mortgage market. This involvement is a result of the recent economic crisis and has caused the interest rate for thirty year fixed-rate mortgage loans that conform to the GSEs’ loan purchase guidelines to remain exceptionally low. We 44 originate and purchase such conforming loans and retain them for portfolio. In addition, the U.S. Congress recently extended through September 2011 the expanded GSE conforming loan limits in many of our operating markets, allowing larger balance loans to be acquired by the GSEs, and more loans in our portfolio qualified under the expanding conforming loan limits and were refinanced into fixed-rate mortgages. As a result of these factors, we expect that our one-to four-family loan repayments will remain at elevated levels, making it difficult for us to grow our mortgage loan portfolio. Accordingly, we are likely to experience a decrease in the size of our balance sheet while current economic conditions prevail. Both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are under conservatorship with the Federal Housing Finance Agency, an agency of the U.S. government. On February 11, 2011, the Obama administration presented the U.S. Congress with a report of its proposals for reforming America’s housing finance market with the goal of scaling back the role of the U.S. government in, and promoting the return of private capital to, the mortgage markets and ultimately winding down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Without mentioning a specific time frame, the report calls for the reduction of the role of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the mortgage markets by, among other things, reducing conforming loan limits, increasing guarantee fees and requiring larger down payments by borrowers. The report presents three options for the long-term structure of housing finance, all of which call for the unwinding of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and a reduced role of the government in the mortgage market: (i) a system with U.S. government insurance limited to a narrowly targeted group of lower- and moderate-income borrowers; (ii) a system similar to (i) above except with an expanded guarantee during times of crisis; and (iii) a system where the U.S. government offers reinsurance for the securities of a broad range of mortgages behind significant private capital. We cannot be certain if or when Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will be wound down, if or when reform of the housing finance market will be implemented or what the future role of the U.S. government will be in the mortgage market, and, accordingly, we will not be able to determine the impact that any such reform may have on us until a definitive reform plan is adopted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 45 