Risk Factors Described below are certain risks that we believe are applicable to our business and the oil and gas industry in which we operate. You should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below and all other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Also, you should be aware that the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, of which we are not yet aware, or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. We have a limited operating history, and may not be successful in sustaining profitable business operations. We have a limited operating history. The business of acquiring, exploring for, developing and producing hydrocarbon reserves is inherently risky. We have a limited operating history for you to consider in evaluating our business and prospects. Our operations are therefore subject to all of the risks inherent in acquiring, exploring for, developing and producing hydrocarbon reserves, particularly in light of our limited experience in undertaking such activities. We may never overcome these obstacles. Our business is speculative and dependent upon the implementation of our business plan and our ability to enter into agreements with third parties for the rights to exploit potential oil and natural gas reserves on terms that will be commercially viable for us. Our lack of diversification will increase the risk of an investment in us and our financial condition and results of operations may deteriorate if we fail to diversify. Our business is focused primarily on a limited number of properties in North Dakota and Montana. We may choose to limit our focus to a single geographic area such as the Williston Basin, which could limit our flexibility. We previously committed to joint ventures with third parties to acquire and develop acreage; we may continue to participate in joint ventures in the future, although we intend to focus on operating our own properties. Our required capital commitments may grow if the opportunity presents itself and depend upon the results of initial testing and development activities. Larger companies have the ability to manage their risk by diversification. However, we lack diversification in terms of both the nature and geographic scope of our business. As a result, we will likely be impacted more acutely by factors affecting our industry or the regions in which we operate than if our business were more diversified enhancing our risk profile. If we cannot diversify our operations, our financial condition and results of operations could deteriorate. We have a history of losses which may continue and negatively impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. We incurred net losses of $62,296,099, $1,345,054 and $4,268,569 for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We cannot assure you that we can achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our operations are subject to the risks and competition inherent in the oil and natural gas industry. We cannot assure you that future operations will be profitable. Revenues and profits, if any, will depend upon various factors, including whether we will be able to increase our revenues. We may not achieve our business objectives and the failure to achieve such goals would have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and result of operations. Strategic relationships upon which we may rely are subject to change, which may diminish our ability to conduct our operations. Our ability to successfully acquire additional properties, to discover reserves, to participate in exploration opportunities and to identify and enter into commercial arrangements with customers depend on developing and maintaining close working relationships with industry participants, our ability to select and evaluate suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. These realities are subject to change and may impair our ability to grow. To further develop our business, we will endeavor to use the business relationships of our management to enter into strategic relationships, which may take the form of joint ventures with other private parties and contractual arrangements with other oil and natural gas companies, including those that supply equipment and other resources that we will use in our business. Our ability to successfully operate joint ventures depends on a variety of factors, many of which will be entirely outside our control. We may not be able to establish strategic relationships, or if established, we may not be able to maintain them. In addition, the dynamics of our relationships with strategic partners may require us to incur expenses or undertake activities we would not otherwise be inclined to undertake in order to fulfill our obligations to these partners or maintain our relationships. If our strategic relationships are not established or maintained, our business prospects may be limited, which could diminish our ability to conduct our operations. We own a significant amount of operated and non-operated acreage. Our development of successful operations on our operated acreage depends on the technical expertise of our team and is inherently affected by the geology of each prospect. Our non-operated acreage relies extensively on third-parties who, if not successful, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. To date, we have only produced oil and natural gas from wells operated by third parties. As a result, we do not control the timing or success of the development, exploitation, production and exploration activities relating to our non-operated leasehold interests. If our consultants and drilling partners are not successful in such activities relating to our leasehold interests or are unable or unwilling to perform, our financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected. 9 Competition in obtaining rights to explore and develop oil and natural gas reserves and to market our production may impair our business. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. Other oil and natural gas companies may seek to acquire oil and natural gas leases and other properties and services we intend to target with our investments. This competition is increasingly intense as prices of oil and natural gas on the commodities markets rise. Additionally, other companies engaged in our line of business may compete with us from time to time in obtaining capital from investors or in funding joint ventures with our prospective partners. Competitors include a variety of potential investors and larger companies, which, in particular, may have access to greater resources, may be more successful in the recruitment and retention of qualified employees and may conduct their own refining and petroleum marketing operations, which may give them a competitive advantage. In addition, actual or potential competitors may be strengthened through the acquisition of additional assets and interests. If we are unable to compete effectively or adequately respond to competitive pressures, this inability may materially adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth, which may harm our profitability. Our strategy envisions expanding our business. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our financial results could be adversely affected. Growth may place a strain on our management systems and resources. We must continue to refine and expand our business development capabilities, our systems and processes and our access to financing sources. As we grow, we must continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. We may not be able to: •meet our capital needs; •expand our systems effectively or efficiently or in a timely manner; •allocate our human resources optimally; •identify and hire qualified employees or retain valued employees; or •incorporate effectively the components of any business that we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth. If we are unable to manage our growth, our operations and our financial results could be adversely affected by inefficiency, which could diminish our profitability. Our business may suffer if we do not attract and retain talented personnel. Our success will depend in large measure on the abilities, expertise, judgment, discretion, integrity and good faith of our management and other personnel in conducting our business. We have a small management team, and the loss of key individuals or the inability to attract suitably qualified staff could materially adversely impact our business. Our success depends on the ability of our management, employees and exploration partners to interpret market and geological data correctly and to interpret and respond to economic market and other conditions in order to locate and adopt appropriate investment opportunities, monitor such investments, and ultimately, if required, to successfully divest such investments. Lower oil and natural gas prices, decreases in value of undeveloped acreage, lease expirations and material changes to our plans of development may cause us to record ceiling test write-downs. We use the full cost method of accounting to account for our oil and natural gas operations. Accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop oil and natural gas properties. Under full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties may not exceed a “full cost ceiling” which is based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, including the effect of hedges in place, discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or fair market value of unproved properties. If at the end of any fiscal period we determine that the net capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties exceed the full cost ceiling, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings in the period then ended. This is called a “ceiling test write-down.” This charge does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce our net income and stockholders’ equity. We recognized a ceiling test write-down for the year ended December 31, 2012 of approximately $61.9 million and we may recognize write-downs in the future if commodity prices decline or if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. Our hedging activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our net income or increase our net loss, which may adversely affect our business. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas production, we may enter into oil and natural gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of expected production that we fund. Such transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: •production is less than expected; •there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; or •the counterparties to our hedging agreements fail to perform under the contracts. 10 Exploration for oil and natural gas is risky and may not be commercially successful, and the advanced technologies we and our operating partners use cannot eliminate exploration risk, which could impair our ability to generate revenues from our operations. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploration, development and production program. Oil and natural gas exploration involves a high degree of risk. These risks are more acute in the early stages of exploration. Our ability to generate a return on our investments, revenues and our resulting financial performance are significantly affected by the prices we receive for oil and natural gas produced from wells on our acreage. Especially in recent years, the prices at which oil and natural gas trade in the open market have experienced significant volatility, and will likely continue to fluctuate in the foreseeable future due to a variety of influences including, but not limited to, the following: •domestic and foreign demand for oil and natural gas by both refineries and end users; •the introduction of alternative forms of fuel to replace or compete with oil and natural gas; •domestic and foreign reserves and supply of oil and natural gas; •competitive measures implemented by our competitors and domestic and foreign governmental bodies; •weather conditions; and •domestic and foreign economic volatility and stability. A significant decrease in oil and natural gas prices could also adversely impact our ability to raise additional capital to pursue future drilling activities. Our expenditures on exploration may not result in new discoveries of oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. It is difficult to project the costs of implementing an exploratory drilling program due to the inherent uncertainties of drilling in unknown formations, the costs associated with encountering various drilling conditions, such as over-pressured zones and tools lost in the hole, and changes in drilling plans and locations as a result of prior exploratory wells or additional seismic data and interpretations thereof. Even when used and properly interpreted, three-dimensional (3-D) seismic data and visualization techniques only assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. They do not allow the interpreter to know conclusively if hydrocarbons are present or economically producible. In addition, the use of 3-D seismic data becomes less reliable when used at increasing depths. We could incur losses as a result of expenditures on unsuccessful wells. If exploration costs exceed estimates, or if exploration efforts do not produce results which meet expectations, the exploration efforts may not be commercially successful, which could adversely impact our ability to generate revenues from our operations. We may not be able to develop oil and natural gas reserves on an economically viable basis, and our reserves and production may decline as a result. If we succeed in discovering oil and/or natural gas reserves, these reserves may not be capable of the production levels we project or in sufficient quantities to be commercially viable. On a long-term basis, our viability depends on our ability to find or acquire, develop and commercially produce additional oil and natural gas reserves. Without the addition of reserves through acquisition, exploration or development activities, our reserves and production will decline over time as reserves are produced. Our future reserves will depend not only on our ability to develop then-existing properties, but also on our operating partners’ ability to identify and acquire additional suitable producing properties or prospects, to find markets for the oil and natural gas we may develop and to effectively distribute our production. Future oil and natural gas exploration may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Completion of a well does not assure a profit on the investment or recovery of drilling, completion and operating costs. In addition, drilling hazards or environmental damage could greatly increase the cost of operations, and various field operating conditions may adversely affect the production from successful wells. These conditions include delays in obtaining governmental approvals or consents, shut-downs of connected wells resulting from extreme weather conditions, problems in storage and distribution and adverse geological and mechanical conditions. We will not be able to eliminate these conditions completely in any case. Therefore, these conditions could diminish our revenue and cash flow levels and result in the impairment of our oil and natural gas interests. We may not be able to drill wells on a substantial portion of our acreage. We may not be able to drill on a substantial portion of our acreage for various reasons. We may not generate or be able to raise sufficient capital to do so. Future deterioration in commodities pricing may also make drilling some acreage uneconomic. Our actual drilling activities and future drilling budget will depend on drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, regulatory approvals and other factors. In addition, any drilling activities we are able to conduct may not be successful or add additional proved reserves to our overall proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage. A large portion of our acreage is not currently held by production. Unless production in paying quantities is established on units containing these leases during their terms, these leases will expire. If our leases expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. Our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change based upon various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, and regulatory approvals. Further, some of our acreage is located in sections where we do not hold the majority of the acreage and therefore it is likely that we will not be named operator of these sections. On our acreage that we do not operate, we have less control over the timing of drilling and there is therefore additional risk of expirations occurring in those sections . Prices and markets for oil and natural gas are unpredictable and tend to fluctuate significantly, which could reduce profitability, growth and the value of our business. Oil and natural gas are commodities whose prices are determined based on world demand, supply and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. World prices for oil and natural gas have fluctuated widely in recent years, and we expect that prices will fluctuate in the future. Price fluctuations will have a significant impact upon our revenue, the return from our reserves and on our financial condition generally. Price fluctuations for oil and natural gas commodities may also impact the investment market for companies engaged in the oil and natural gas industry. Prices may not remain at current levels. Decreases in the prices of oil and natural gas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, the future results of our operations and quantities of reserves recoverable on an economic basis. Penalties we may incur could impair our business. Failure to comply with government regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties, could require us to forfeit property rights, and may affect the value of our assets. We may also be required to take corrective actions, such as installing additional equipment or taking other actions, each of which could require us to make substantial capital expenditures. We could also be required to indemnify our employees in connection with any expenses or liabilities that they may incur individually in connection with regulatory action against them. As a result, our future business prospects could deteriorate due to regulatory constraints, and our profitability could be impaired by our obligation to provide such indemnification to our employees. We and our operating partners may have difficulty distributing our production, which could harm our financial condition. In order to sell the oil and natural gas that we are able to produce, we and the operators of our non-operated wells may have to make arrangements for storage and distribution to the market. We will rely on local infrastructure and the availability of transportation for storage and shipment of our products, but infrastructure development and storage and transportation facilities may be insufficient for our needs at commercially acceptable terms in the localities in which we operate. This situation could be particularly problematic to the extent that our operations are conducted in remote areas that are difficult to access, such as areas that are distant from shipping and/or pipeline facilities. These factors may affect our ability to explore and develop properties and to store and transport our oil and natural gas production and may increase our expenses. Furthermore, weather conditions or natural disasters, actions by companies doing business in one or more of the areas in which we will operate, or labor disputes may impair the distribution of oil and/or natural gas and in turn diminish our financial condition or ability to maintain our operations. We may be unable to obtain additional capital that we will require to implement our business plan, which could restrict our ability to grow. We expect that our cash position, revenues from oil and natural gas sales, proceeds from our recent preferred stock offering, and availability on our credit facility will be sufficient to fund our 2013 drilling program. Our credit facility limits our borrowings to the lesser of the borrowing base and the total commitments. Our borrowing base was $27.5 million as of December 31, 2012. Our borrowing base is determined semi-annually, and may also be redetermined at the election of us or the banks between the scheduled redeterminations. Lower oil and natural gas prices may result in a reduction in our borrowing base at the next redetermination. A reduction in our borrowing base could require us to repay any indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base. Additionally, our credit facility contains covenants limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness and requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. Future acquisitions and future exploration, development, production and marketing activities, as well as our administrative requirements (such as salaries, insurance expenses and general overhead expenses, as well as legal compliance costs and accounting expenses) will require a substantial amount of capital and cash flow. We may pursue sources of additional capital through various financing transactions or arrangements, including joint venturing of projects, debt financing, equity financing or other means. We may not be successful in identifying suitable financing transactions in the time period required or at all, and we may not obtain the capital we require by other means. If we do not succeed in raising additional capital, our resources may not be sufficient to fund our planned expansion of operations in the future. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity will dilute the ownership percentage of our shareholders. Raising any such capital could also result in a decrease in the fair market value of our equity securities because our assets would be owned by a larger pool of outstanding equity. The terms of securities we issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable to our new investors, and may include preferences, superior voting rights and the issuance of other derivative securities. In addition, we have granted and will continue to grant equity incentive awards under our equity incentive plans, which may have a further dilutive effect. 12 Our ability to obtain financing, if and when necessary, may be impaired by such factors as the capital markets (both generally and in the oil and natural gas industry in particular), our limited operating history, the location of our oil and natural gas properties and prices of oil and natural gas on the commodities markets (which will impact the amount of asset-based financing available to us) and the departure of key employees. Further, if oil or natural gas prices on the commodities markets decline, our revenues will likely decrease and such decreased revenues may increase our requirements for capital. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations, is not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs (even to the extent that we reduce our operations), we may be required to cease our operations, divest our assets at unattractive prices or obtain financing on unattractive terms. We may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, which may adversely impact our financial condition. Estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves are uncertain and any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates will materially affect the quantities and the value of our reserves. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and the value of our reserves. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. At December 31, 2012, approximately 63% of our estimated reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop our reserves. Although we have prepared estimates of these oil and natural gas reserves and the costs associated with development of these reserves in accordance with SEC regulations, actual capital expenditures will likely vary from estimated capital expenditures, development may not occur as scheduled and actual results may not be as estimated. Our ability to sell our production and/or receive market prices for our production may be adversely affected by transportation capacity constraints and interruptions. If the amount of oil or natural gas being produced by us and others exceeds the capacity of the various transportation pipelines and gathering systems currently available in our operating areas, it will be necessary for new transportation pipelines and gathering systems to be built. Or, in the case of oil and condensate, it will be necessary for us to rely more heavily on trucks to transport our production, which is more expensive and less efficient than transportation via pipeline. Currently, we anticipate that additional pipeline capacity will be required in the Bakken and Three Forks formations to transport oil and condensate production, which increased substantially during 2012 and is expected to continue to increase. The construction of new pipelines and gathering systems is capital intensive and construction may be postponed, interrupted or cancelled in response to changing economic conditions and the availability and cost of capital. In addition, capital constraints could limit our ability to build gathering systems to transport our production to transportation pipelines. In such event, costs to transport our production may increase materially or we might have to shut in our wells awaiting a pipeline connection or capacity and/or sell our production at much lower prices than market or than we currently project, which would adversely affect our results of operations. A portion of our production may also be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous other reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, accidents, loss of pipeline or gathering system access, field labor issues or strikes, or we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions. Environmental risks may adversely affect our business. All phases of the oil and natural gas business present environmental risks and hazards and are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of federal, state and municipal laws and regulations. Environmental legislation provides for, among other things, restrictions and prohibitions on spills, releases or emissions of various substances produced in association with oil and natural gas operations. Legislation also requires that wells and facility sites be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Compliance with such legislation can require significant expenditures and a breach may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, some of which may be material. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner in which we expect may result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability and potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. The discharge of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to liabilities to governments and third parties and may require us to incur costs to remedy such discharge. The application of environmental laws to our business may cause us to curtail our production or increase the costs of our production, development or exploration activities. 13 Federal or state hydraulic fracturing legislation could increase our costs or restrict our access to oil and natural gas reserves. Hydraulic fracturing using fluids other than diesel is currently exempt from regulation under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, but opponents of hydraulic fracturing have called for further study of the technique’s environmental effects and, in some cases, a moratorium on the use of the technique. Several proposals have been submitted to Congress that, if implemented, would subject all hydraulic fracturing to regulation under the Safe Drinking Water Act. Further, the EPA’s Office of Research and Development (ORD) is conducting a scientific study to investigate the possible relationships between hydraulic fracturing and drinking water. The results of that study could advance the development of additional regulations. Apart from federal regulatory initiatives, states have been considering or implementing new requirements for hydraulic fracturing, including restricting its use in environmentally sensitive areas. Similarly, some localities have significantly limited or prohibited drilling activities, or are considering doing so. Although it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome of the ORD’s study or the requirements of any additional federal or state legislation or regulation regarding hydraulic fracturing, any new federal, state, or local restrictions on hydraulic fracturing that may be imposed in areas where we conduct business, such as the Bakken and Three Forks areas, could significantly increase our operating, capital and compliance costs as well as delay or halt our ability to develop oil and natural gas reserves. See Item 1. Business —Governmental Regulation and Environmental Matters — Hydraulic Fracturing. Possible regulation related to global warming and climate change could have an adverse effect on our operations and demand for oil and natural gas. Significant studies and research have been devoted to climate change and global warming, and climate change has developed into a major political issue in the United States and globally. Certain research suggests that greenhouse gas emissions contribute to climate change and pose a threat to the environment. Recent scientific research and political debate has focused in part on carbon dioxide and methane incidental to oil and natural gas exploration and production. Many states and the federal government have imposed requirements directed at controlling greenhouse gas emissions, and future legislation and regulation could impose additional restrictions or obligations in connection with our drilling and production activities and favor use of alternative energy sources, which could increase our operating costs or reduce the demand for petroleum products. As such, our business could be materially adversely affected by domestic and international legislation targeted at controlling climate change. Title to the properties in which we have an interest may be impaired by title defects. Title to oil and natural gas interests is often not capable of conclusive determination without incurring substantial expense. Title defects may exist in many of our oil and natural gas interests. In addition, we may be unable to obtain adequate insurance for title defects on a commercially reasonable basis or at all. If title defects do exist, it is possible that we may lose all or a portion of our right, title and interests in and to the properties to which the title defects relate. If our property rights are reduced, our ability to conduct our exploration, development and production activities may be impaired. Federal legislation could have an adverse impact on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effects of commodity prices, interest rates and other risks associated with our business. Historically, we have entered into a number of commodity derivative contracts in order to hedge a portion of our oil and natural gas production and, periodically, interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act, which was passed by Congress and signed into law in July 2010, provides for statutory and regulatory requirements for certain derivative transactions, which are broadly referred to as “swaps” and which include oil and gas hedging transactions and interest rate swaps. Swaps designated by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and swaps within certain classes of swaps designated by the CFTC will be required to be submitted for clearing on a derivative clearing organization and, if accepted for clearing, cleared on the derivative clearing organization. Transactions in swaps accepted for clearing must be executed on a board of trade designated as a contract market or a swap execution facility if such swaps are made available for trading on such a board of trade or swap execution facility. The Dodd-Frank Act provides an exception from application of the Act's clearing requirement that commercial end-users may elect for swaps they use to hedge or mitigate commercial risks. Although we believe we will be able to elect such exception with respect to most, if not all, of our swaps, if we cannot do so with respect to many of the swaps we enter into, our ability to execute our hedging program efficiently will be adversely affected. In addition, any of our existing swaps, as well as swaps that we enter before such swaps become subject to the clearing requirement, that fall within a class of swaps becoming subject to the clearing requirement will have to be submitted for clearing unless we meet certain reporting requirements. We anticipate that, under regulations adopted under the Dodd-Frank Act and relevant derivative clearing organization and other rules, if we do not qualify as a commercial end-user we will be required to post cash collateral for those of our derivative transactions constituting swaps (including our interest rate swaps and commodities-related swaps) that we need to clear on a derivative clearing organization. Moreover, the CFTC and the federal regulators of banks and other financial institutions have proposed regulations imposing margin requirements for non-cleared swaps that, if adopted, could require us to post cash or other types of collateral for our non-cleared swaps, if any, from time to time in certain circumstances. Posting cash collateral or margin with respect to our swaps could cause liquidity issues for us by reducing our ability to use our cash for capital expenditures or other partnership purposes. A requirement to post cash collateral or margin could therefore reduce our ability to execute strategic hedges to reduce commodity price uncertainty and, thus, to protect cash flows. In addition, even if we are not required to post cash collateral or margin for our swaps, the banks and other derivatives dealers who are the contractual counterparties to our swaps will be required to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act’s requirements, and the costs of their compliance will likely be passed on to customers, including us, thus increasing our costs of engaging in hedging transactions, decreasing the benefits of those transactions to us and reducing our cash flows. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the new legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. If the legislation and regulations result in lower commodity prices, our revenues could be adversely affected. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to continue to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet certain reporting obligations. We will rely on technology to conduct our business and our technology could become ineffective or obsolete. We rely on technology, including geographic and seismic analysis techniques and economic models, to develop our reserve estimates and to guide our exploration, development and production activities. We will be required to continually enhance and update our technology to maintain our efficacy and to avoid obsolescence. The costs of doing so may be substantial, and may be higher than the costs that we anticipated for technology maintenance and development. If we are unable to maintain the efficacy of our technology, our ability to manage our business and to compete may be impaired. Further, even if we are able to maintain technical effectiveness, our technology may not be the most efficient means of reaching our objectives, in which case we may incur higher operating costs than we would were our technology more efficient. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 