Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the Company. Risks Related to Our Business Our broadcasting agreement with GSN is a new business arrangement that will be a significant source of our future revenue, and there is no assurance GSN will be a viable business partner or that they will exercise rights to broadcast future seasons of the WPT, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. On April 2, 2007, we entered into an agreement with the Game Show Network, LLC, pursuant to which GSN will broadcast Season Six of the WPT, with options to broadcast Seasons Seven and Eight of the WPT. The license fees we had received from the Travel Channel for previous seasons of the WPT and PPT had been our most significant source of revenue, comprising approximately 56% of our total historical revenues. The GSN agreement provides for per-season aggregate payments of approximately $7 million, versus per-season aggregate payments of approximately $10.5 million under our agreement with the Travel Channel. Due to the significance of programming license fees on our historical revenues, the lower fees we will receive will require us to develop other areas of our business to make up for that decrease in broadcast licensing revenue. There is no assurance that GSN will exercise its options to air Seasons Seven and Eight. If, in the future, GSN elects not to continue airing the WPT series and we cannot maintain or replace our agreement with GSN with comparable license agreements, it will be detrimental to the viability of the WPT 17 brand and, consequently, would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and, ultimately, the price of our common stock. Our agreements with the Travel Channel and GSN grant rights to the parties that could impact the value of our WPT and Professional Poker Tour brands and place some limits on our growth. Although our agreement with the Travel Channel has expired with respect to future seasons of the WPT, the Travel Channel still retains certain rights that could impact the value of our WPT and Professional Poker Tour brands and place some limits on our growth. Furthermore, GSN has certain restrictive rights that will affect our exploitation of the WPT television series. For example: •As is customary in most production agreements with television networks, GSN retains final edit rights over the WPT programs that we produce. If GSN exercises those rights in a manner that diminishes the quality of our programs or negatively affects relationships that are important to our programming, including those with the casinos hosting the poker tournaments at which we film our shows, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow and, ultimately, the price of our common stock. •The GSN agreement requires GSN's prior approval of any show sponsorship, which might prevent us from entering into sponsorship arrangements. •Under our agreement with the Travel Channel, with respect to both the WPT and PPT television series we are subject to holdback provisions that extend beyond the license period for each season. These holdback periods may impact our ability to resell this programming into secondary markets in the U.S. or the timing of such sales. Furthermore, additional holdbacks apply under our agreement with GSN, with respect to the WPT television series for Seasons One through Five, that extends eight months after the final season option date on television in the U.S. •Under our agreement with GSN, with respect to the WPT television series we are subject to holdback provisions for Seasons One through Five that extends eight months after the final season option date. These holdback periods may impact our ability to resell the series into secondary markets in the U.S. or the timing of such sales. •Although our agreement has expired with the Travel Channel, they still retain the right to a percentage of adjusted gross revenues from international television, consumer products, and other licensing revenues. Any future license agreements with other licensees for our television series are likely to have similar or other provisions that could impact the value of our brands and limit our growth. Our agreement with CryptoLogic is a relatively new business arrangement that we hope leads to a significant source of our future revenue, and there is no assurance that CryptoLogic will be a viable business partner, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. On April 23, 2007, we entered into an agreement with CryptoLogic, Inc. pursuant to which CryptoLogic operates and manages our WPT-branded real-money gaming website, located at WorldPokerTour.com, solely in non-restricted international jurisdictions. The website uses geo-filtering and other technology to prevent bets from players in the U.S. and from other restricted jurisdictions. We cannot be assured that CryptoLogic's operation of the site going forward will meet management's business expectations, the failure of which would have a material adverse impact on our online gaming business. 18 Our success depends on our current brand and any future brands we may develop, and if the value of our brands were to diminish, our business would be adversely affected. Our success depends on our current WPT brand, which consists of a portfolio of trademarks, service marks and copyrighted materials. Our portfolio includes, but is not limited to, existing and future episodes of the televised programming produced in connection with our existing and future brands and certain elements of these episodes, trade names and other intellectual property rights and any future brands we develop. In connection with our branding and licensing operations, we have entered into agreements with Brandgenuity LLC and other licensing agents in international territories to seek licensing opportunities for the WPT brand. While specific contractual provisions require that the licensees brought to us by Brandgenuity maintain the quality of our brands, we cannot be certain that our licensees or their manufacturers and distributors will honor their contractual obligations or that they will not take other actions that will diminish the value of our brand prior to our ability to detect and prevent any such actions. There is a risk that we may not be able to protect the format of our episodes, our current and future brands and our other proprietary rights. We are susceptible to others imitating our television show format and other products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. We currently believe that several competitive poker-related television programs use exhibition methods and technology that might infringe on one or more claims of our pending patent applications. We have issued letters to some of the producers of these programs, notifying them that we have intellectual property rights in such technology, and that we intend to vigorously enforce such rights in order to protect our proprietary processes. These and other producers of poker-related programming may be well established and may have significantly greater resources than we do. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Any litigation could result in substantial expense, may reduce our profits and may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights upon which we are substantially dependent. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not always protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Imitation of our television show formats and other products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenues. Any litigation or claims against us based upon our intellectual property or other third party rights, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and harm our reputation. In addition, such litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: to cease exploitation of our television series and related products or portions thereof that violate the potentially infringed third party rights or intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenue; to negotiate a license from the holder of the intellectual property or other right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or to modify our television series and related products or portions thereof to avoid infringing the intellectual property or other rights of a third party, which may be costly and time-consuming or impossible to accomplish. Early termination of our agreements with member casinos or violation by member casinos of the restrictive covenants contained in these agreements could negatively affect the size of telecast audiences and lead to declines in the performance of all of our other lines of business. We have entered into written agreements with all of the "member casinos" that host the World Poker Tour tournament stops. The WPT agreements were originally for a term of five years and, although some member casinos have a bilateral option, most of the agreements provided us with a unilateral option to renew on the same terms for another five years. In September 2004, we exercised our right to renew most of these agreements. However, in each year after its first year of participation, the member casino may elect to withdraw its tournament from the World Poker Tour lineup and terminate the agreement by giving us notice by a specified date or, if earlier, a specified length of time before the date of the tournament, 19 which is generally four to six months. While the agreement is in effect and for varying periods of time thereafter, the member casino is prohibited from televising the tournament itself, permitting any third party to televise the tournament or licensing its name, trademarks or likeness to any other party in conjunction with the telecast of a poker tournament. If a significant number of these casinos were to terminate the agreements and/or allow a competing company to telecast their tournaments in violation of these restrictions or after their expiration for the restricted time period, this could result in a decline in our future telecast audiences, which in turn would lead to declines in the performance and success of our other lines of business. To date, twelve member casinos that have hosted World Poker Tour tour stops no longer participate as hosts of World Poker Tour events. We have subsequently replaced each of these venues with additional tour stops, and do not believe that their withdrawal has had a significant impact on the quality of the Tour or on our business. Termination or impairment of our relationships with key licensing and strategic partners could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We have developed relationships with key strategic partners in many areas of our business, including poker tournament event sponsorship, merchandise licensing, corporate sponsorship, Internet gaming and international distribution. We hope to derive significant income from our licensing arrangements, and our agreements with our strategic partners are vital to finding these licensing arrangements. If we were to fail to manage our existing licensing relationships, this failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We would also be materially adversely affected if we were to lose our rights under any of our other key contracts or if the counterparty to any of these contracts were to breach its obligations to us. We rely on a limited number of contracts under which third parties provide us with services vital to our business. These agreements include: •our agreement with PartyGaming, pursuant to which PartyGaming agreed to pay us fees for sponsoring international broadcasts of our programming in international territories (i.e., non-U.S.), subject to certain requirements regarding the type and amount of advertising and branding we are able to provide them; •our agreement with Brandgenuity LLC, pursuant to which it negotiates third party consumer product licensing agreements; •our agreement with CryptoLogic, pursuant to which CryptoLogic operates and manages our WPT-branded real-money gaming website, WorldPokerTour.com; •our agreement with the CLSAC, pursuant to which the CLSAC will work with us to develop and market the WPT China National Traktor Poker Tour. •our agreement with Ultimate Blackjack Tour, LLC, pursuant to which they operate and manage our online subscription website, ClubWPT.com. If our relationship with any of these or certain other third parties were to be interrupted, or the services provided by any of these third parties were to be delayed or deteriorate for any reason without being adequately replaced, our business could be materially adversely affected. If we are forced to find a replacement for any of these strategic partners, this could create disruption in our business and may result in reduced revenues, increased costs or diversion of management's attention and resources. In addition, while we have significant control over our licensed products and advertising, we do not have operational and financial control over these third parties, and we have limited influence with respect to the manner in which they conduct their businesses. If any of these strategic partners experiences a significant downturn in its business or were otherwise unable to honor its obligations to us, our business could be materially disrupted. 20 Our further expansion into foreign markets will subject us to additional business risks. In connection with our prior decision to accept players from selected foreign jurisdictions on our online gaming site, we significantly expanded our international presence. Furthermore, we recently began operations in China pursuant to our agreement with the CLSAC, pursuant to which we will develop and market the WPT China National Traktor Poker Tour in the People's Republic of China. We intend to further expand our business in foreign markets in other ways, including continued international distribution of our U.S. telecasts, creating regional poker tours in foreign countries and distributing branded merchandise in foreign countries. Our international operations could be adversely affected by changes in political and economic conditions, trade protection measures and the status of regulatory requirements that may restrict the sales of our products, increase costs of foreign production or other costs that prohibit Internet gaming activities in international jurisdictions. Also, changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could potentially result in significant increases in our costs or decreases in our earnings. The China initiative is unproven, its success will depend on multiple factors beyond our control, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to monetize our rights in the territory. The success of our initiative in China will greatly depend upon our ability to expand our brand and to monetize our rights throughout the territory. We are highly dependent upon third parties for the organization of events, acquisition and use of certain business licenses throughout China, the marketing of the WPT China National Traktor Poker Tour and the licensing of our trademark and intellectual property rights. If these third parties fail to perform as anticipated, business operations in China could be severely affected. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully enforce our rights in China against any infringers of our trademarks or other rights granted to us. We are highly dependent upon the CLSAC's performance of its obligations under its contract, which includes organizing Traktor Poker Tour events, securing placement of the championship finals on a major Chinese television station, and promoting the tour. Failure of the CLSAC to properly support the tour could severely impact our ability to generate revenue in China. Moreover, even if the tournaments attract a large number of participants, we cannot guarantee that this will translate into significant revenue for the Company. The policies of the People's Republic of China might change in regard to taxation, operation of online media, the required licenses necessary to conduct business, and the promotion of television or card playing sports. These changes could negatively impact our ability to operate effectively in China or generate revenue. We will face a variety of risks as we expand into new or complementary businesses in the future. Our core operations have consisted of marketing, promoting and licensing our televised entertainment; selling, or licensing the right to manufacture and sell, our branded merchandise; and the marketing and promotion of our WPT-branded real-money gaming website. Our current strategic objectives include not only further development and enhancement of our existing business but also the entry into new or complementary businesses, such as expansion of our current business operations into international markets and the development of poker-related content. We are also exploring other opportunities to leverage the World Poker Tour brand, including the potential development of additional television programming. The following risks associated with expanding into new or complementary businesses by investment, licensing, acquisition, strategic alliance, co-production or other arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and the price of our common stock: •potential diversion of management's attention and resources from our existing business and an inability to recruit or develop the necessary management resources to manage new businesses; 21 •unanticipated liabilities or contingencies from new or complementary businesses or ventures; •potential operating losses from new business ventures; •reduced earnings due to potential goodwill impairment charges, increased interest costs and additional costs related to the integration of acquisitions; •potential reallocations of resources due to the growing complexity of our business and strategy; •competition from companies engaged in the new or complementary businesses that we are entering; •possible additional regulatory requirements and compliance costs; •dilution of our stockholders' percentage ownership or an increase of our leverage when issuing equity or convertible debt securities or incurring debt; and •potential unavailability on acceptable terms, or at all, of additional financing necessary for expansion. The loss of the services of Steven Lipscomb or other key employees or on-air talent or our failure to attract key individuals would materially and adversely affect our business. We are highly dependent on the services of Steven Lipscomb, who is the creator and Executive Producer of the WPT and Professional Poker Tour television series and currently serves as our President and Chief Executive Officer. Although we have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Lipscomb governing his employment through December 29, 2008, Mr. Lipscomb may elect to decrease the level of his involvement with us or terminate his employment altogether prior to the expiration of this term. Our continued success is also dependent upon retention of other key management executives and upon our ability to attract and retain employees and on-air talent to implement our corporate development strategy and our branding and licensing efforts. The loss of some of our senior executives, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. Growth in our business is dependent, to a large degree, on our ability to retain and attract such employees. We seek to compensate and provide incentives to our key executives, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries, stock ownership and bonus plans, but we can make no assurance that these programs will allow us to retain key employees or hire new employees. In addition, our future success may also be affected by the potential need to replace our key on-air talent at an inopportune time, such as midway through the tapings of a season of the WPT television program. Lakes Entertainment, Inc. remains the majority shareholder of the company and is able to effectively control our management and operations. Lakes Entertainment, Inc. through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Lakes Poker Tour, LLC, owns 12,480,000 shares of our outstanding common stock, representing approximately 61% of our voting power. Lakes Entertainment, together with our directors and executive officers, beneficially owns 15,353,539 shares of our common stock, which represents approximately 71% of our voting power. As a result, Lakes Entertainment, either alone or together with our directors and executive officers, controls the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the future merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Therefore, Lakes Entertainment indirectly controls our management through the election and removal of members of the Board of Directors. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. As a result, the return on your investment in our common stock through the market price of our common stock or ultimate sale of our business could be adversely affected. 22 Our Board of Directors' ability to issue undesignated preferred stock and the existence of anti-takeover provisions may depress the value of our common stock. Our authorized capital includes 20 million shares of undesignated preferred stock. Our Board of Directors has the power to issue any or all of the shares of preferred stock, including the authority to establish one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences, rights and limitations of such class or series, without seeking stockholder approval, subject to certain limitations on this power under Nasdaq listing requirements. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law regarding "business combinations." We may, in the future, consider adopting additional anti-takeover measures. The authority of our board to issue undesignated stock and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law, as well as any future anti-takeover measures adopted by us, may, in certain circumstances, delay, deter or prevent takeover attempts and other changes in control of the Company not approved by our Board of Directors. As a result, our stockholders may lose opportunities to dispose of their shares at favorable prices generally available in takeover attempts or that may be available under a merger proposal and the market price, voting and other rights of the holders of common stock may also be affected. Risks Related to Our Industry Our television programming may be unable to maintain a sufficient audience for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. Television production is a speculative business because revenues and income derived from television depend primarily upon the continued acceptance of that programming by the public, which is difficult to predict. Public acceptance of particular programming is dependent upon, among other things, the quality of the programming, the strength of networks on which the programming is telecast, the promotion and scheduling of the programming and the quality and acceptance of competing television programming and other sources of entertainment and information. Popularity of programming can also be negatively impacted by excessive telecasting of the programming beyond viewers' saturation thresholds. The WPT television series, while still one of the highest-rated shows on the Travel Channel, has had decreased Nielsen ratings in the past year due to an increasing number of competing poker-related shows. Furthermore, pursuant to our agreement with GSN, Season Six, and potentially seasons Seven and Eight of the WPT television series will air on GSN, which is a new television network to us with which we have had no experience. If the WPT television series is unable to maintain high ratings when it airs on GSN, it may elect not to exercise its options for additional episodes and seasons, in which event we may be unable to negotiate future U.S. telecast license agreements on terms that are favorable, or at all. Our ability to create and license our television programming profitably may be negatively affected by adverse trends that apply to the television production business generally. Television revenues and income may be affected by a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. These factors include a general decline in television viewers, pricing pressure in the television advertising industry, strength of the stations on which our programming is telecast, general economic conditions, increases in production costs and availability of other forms of entertainment and leisure time activities. All of these factors, as well as others, may quickly change and these changes cannot be predicted with certainty. Our future licensing opportunities may also be adversely affected by these changes. Accordingly, if any of these changes were to occur, the revenues and income we generate from television programming could decline. 23 A decline in general economic conditions or the popularity of our brand of televised poker tournaments could adversely impact our business. Because our operations are affected by general economic conditions and consumer tastes, our future success is unpredictable. The demand for entertainment and leisure activities tends to be highly sensitive to consumers' disposable incomes and thus a decline in general economic conditions could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and the price of our common stock. An economic decline could also adversely affect our corporate sponsorship business, sales of our branded merchandise and other aspects of our business. The continued popularity of our type of entertainment is vital in maintaining the ability to leverage our brand and develop products or services that appeal to our target audiences, which, in turn, is important to our long-term results of operations. Public tastes are unpredictable and subject to change and may be affected by changes in the country's political and social climate. A change in public opinion could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and, ultimately, the price of our common stock. The political or social climate regarding gaming and poker could negatively impact our ability to negotiate future telecast license arrangements and could negatively impact our chances of renewal. Although the popularity of poker, in particular, and gaming, in general, has continued to grow in the U.S. and abroad, gaming has historically experienced backlash from various constituencies and communities. Currently, the legal operational status of Internet-based casinos and cardrooms remains unclear in some countries. The U.S. government has taken steps to curb activities that it believes constitutes unlawful online gaming, through legislation such as the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 and through arrests of off-shore online gaming operators traveling in the U.S. Based on the uncertain regulatory environment surrounding the marketing and promotion of Internet-based casinos and cardrooms to viewers in the U.S., the Travel Channel and GSN, which have final edit rights to the shows that it telecasts, have indicated it will not display the "dot com" names or logos of Internet-based casinos and cardrooms in its telecasts, although it has expressed a willingness to display names and logos from strictly play-for-free "dot net" websites. Additionally, increased regulatory scrutiny on Internet gambling sites may eliminate these sites as sources of advertising revenue for television networks that exhibit poker-related programming, thereby potentially impacting the value of such programming to these networks. Government regulation of online gaming in foreign countries may restrict the activities or affect the financial results of our online gaming operations. We are currently reliant on CryptoLogic for our gaming website's compliance with all applicable regulations, including the initial verification that players who wish to wager are actually from non-restricted countries. In addition, we rely on CryptoLogic and third party vendors to assure that players cannot place improper wagers on an on-going basis. If CryptoLogic's compliance or verification is inadequate or our third party verification tools fail, regulators in the U.S. or other jurisdictions may impose fines or other sanctions or threaten or take other actions that could adversely affect our reputation and the revenues we derive from the license of rights to CryptoLogic. Although CryptoLogic is responsible for obtaining gaming permits and licenses necessary to operate the gaming site itself, we are responsible for obtaining gaming permits and licenses on behalf of the Company, which may be expensive and time consuming. We continue to monitor the legality of Internet gaming in domestic and international jurisdictions, but cannot be certain that changes in existing regulations will be beneficial to the online gaming market or that courts in local jurisdictions will ultimately sustain the legality of our marketing and operating methods in such jurisdictions. Moreover, ambiguous and conflicting laws and regulations could result in our adopting policies in regard to our site that are not ultimately sustained as being compliant 24 with the laws and restrictions of a particular jurisdiction. Additionally, we expect that on-air promotion of our online gaming site via international WPT television telecasts will continue to be a primary marketing tool for driving poker players to the site. However, certain territories and foreign networks may restrict us from incorporating marketing elements related to our online site into our international telecasts, and certain laws or regulations may restrict the type of advertising in general in those territories. If these restrictions occur, our costs of customer acquisition may be substantially higher than anticipated. Internet gaming is a relatively new industry and, therefore, we do not know if the market will continue to develop and our products and services to be offered through our online gaming website will be in demand. Internet gaming is a relatively new industry that continues to rapidly evolve and is characterized by an increasing number of market entrants. If the Internet gaming market becomes saturated with competitors, or if our products and services to be offered through our new online gaming website do not achieve market acceptance, we could incur losses in connection with our investment in our online venture and our future business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our quarterly results may fluctuate, causing fluctuation of our stock price that may negatively affect the value of our common stock. Under our license agreements for the WPT and PPT, revenues are recognized as each episode is delivered to the Travel Channel or, in connection with Season Six and thereafter, GSN. Therefore, our quarterly revenue can fluctuate significantly depending on the number of episodes delivered in any one quarter. In addition, the sales of consumer products that utilize our licensed intellectual property vary greatly, due to holiday seasons, school schedules and other outside factors. As a result, our financial results can be expected to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, leading to volatility and a possible adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The television entertainment market in which we operate is highly competitive and competitors with greater financial resources or marketplace presence may enter our markets to our detriment. We compete with other poker-related television programming, including ESPN's coverage of the "World Series of Poker" and its "World Series of Poker" Circuit Events, NBC's exhibition of the National Heads-Up Poker Championship and Poker After Dark television shows and GSN's exhibition of the High Stakes Poker, among others. These and other producers of poker-related programming may be well established and may have significantly greater resources than we do. Based on the popularity of these poker-related televised programs, we believe that additional competing televised poker programs may currently be in development or may be developed in the future. Our programming also competes for telecast audiences and advertising revenue with telecasts of mainstream professional and amateur sports, as well as other entertainment and leisure activities. These competing programs and activities and brands that may result may decrease the popularity of the WPT or Professional Poker Tour series and dilute the WPT brand. This would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition and, ultimately, the price of our common stock. The poker tournament component of ClubWPT operates in accordance with legal principles associated with sweepstakes, which requires a state by state review of each state's applicable laws and limits our ability to accept paid subscribers in every state or jurisdiction. Any change of laws in various states or countries in regard to sweepstakes, promotions and giveaways or a negative finding of law regarding the characterization of the type of online activity carried out on ClubWPT could result in our inability to take subscribers in those jurisdictions, which in turn could significantly impact our ability to generate revenue. 25 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 