ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We may not timely or effectively respond to customer trends and attract new customers. The key driver of our business is the number of tax returns prepared by our system. For the 2008 fiscal year, the number of tax returns prepared by our system decreased. This decrease was due to several factors, including (i) our lack of an early season product to help attract customers into our stores in early January; (ii) weakness in our brand; and (iii) the higher level of compliance we have instituted in our system. If we are not able to attract and retain customers and increase the number of tax returns prepared by our system, our revenues and profits could decline. We may not be able to develop and make new products available through our offices. Our customers are attracted to us in part based on the products available through our offices. Early season products also serve as an effective retention tool for our customers. During the 2008 tax season, early season loan products were not available through our offices. Our failure to make early season loan products or other attractive products available through our offices could reduce demand for our services, causing our revenues or profitability to decline. Further, our ability to make new products available through our offices may be dependent upon negotiating favorable agreements with third parties and such new products could expose us to the risk of regulatory scrutiny or litigation which could cause our profitability to decline. We may not be able to improve our distribution system. Building a stronger distribution system is necessary to drive the growth of our business by maximizing the performance of the footprint that we already possess and expanding our footprint. Our strategy for selling new territories, strengthening our presence in the Hispanic market and expanding our alliance and partnership activities may not succeed, causing our revenues or profitability to decline. Our primarily fixed cost structure may impact our profitability. We have a fixed cost structure that anticipates a certain level of marketing and advertising expenditures based on an anticipated tax return volume. When the number of tax returns prepared in our system during January of the 2008 tax season was less than expected, revenues decreased while expenses remained largely fixed and our margins and profitability were adversely affected. Our efforts to reduce our cost structure, including decreasing the cost structure of our company-owned stores, increasing the cost efficiency and quality of our third party relationships in delivering technology solutions and improving overall organizational productivity may not succeed, causing our margins and profitability to decline. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. Our continued success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key employees. Competition for executive, managerial and skilled personnel in our industry remains intense. We may experience increased compensation costs in order to attract and retain executives, managers and other skilled employees. We may not be able to retain our existing management, fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover, or attract or retain the management and personnel necessary to operate our business effectively. Although we strive to be an employer of choice, we may not be able to continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel which would cause our business to suffer. Government initiatives that simplify tax return preparation could reduce the need for our services as a third party tax return preparer. Many taxpayers seek assistance from paid tax return preparers such as us because of the level of complexity involved in the tax return preparation and filing process. From time to time, government officials propose 9 Table of Contents measures seeking to simplify the preparation and filing of tax returns or to provide additional assistance with respect to preparing and filing such tax returns. The passage of any measures that significantly simplify tax return preparation or otherwise reduce the need for a third party tax return preparer could reduce demand for our services, causing our revenues or profitability to decline. Initiatives that improve the timing and efficiency of processing tax returns could reduce the demand for financial products available to our customers and demand for our services. Our performance depends in part on our customers’ interest in obtaining the various financial products available through our offices. The federal government and various state governments have, from time to time, announced initiatives designed to modernize their operations and improve the timing and efficiency of processing tax returns and delivery of tax refunds. If tax authorities are able to increase the speed and efficiency with which they process tax returns and deliver tax refunds, the demand for financial products and demand for our tax return preparation services could be reduced, causing our revenues or profitability to decline. Changes in the tax law that result in a decreased number of tax returns filed could harm our business. From time to time, the United States Treasury Department and the IRS adopt policy and rule changes and other initiatives that result in a decrease in the number of tax returns filed. Similar changes in the tax law could reduce demand for our services, causing our revenues or profitability to decline. Delays in the passage of tax laws and their implementation by the federal or state governments could harm our business. The enactment of tax legislation occurring late in the calendar year could result in the beginning of tax filing season being delayed. Any such delays could impact our revenues and profitability in any given quarter or fiscal year. The federal government passed tax legislation relating to the Alternative Minimum Tax (“AMT”) late in the 2007 calendar year resulting in a delay in the beginning of the 2008 tax season for certain tax filers. If the federal government passes AMT or other legislation late in future calendar years, it could result in a delay in the beginning of the subsequent tax season for certain tax filers which could impact our revenues and profitability in any given quarter or fiscal year. The current trend in filing patterns could harm our business. Over the past few years, the overall tax filing market has experienced a shift in which more taxpayers are filing their tax returns later in the tax season, moving from the early season to the late season. A significant portion of our business is derived in the early season. Our inability to continue to maintain or grow our business in the early season or to grow our business in the late season could cause our revenues and profitability to decline. Our success is tied to the operations of our franchisees, yet our ability to exercise control over their operations is limited. Our financial success depends on our franchisees and the manner in which they operate and develop their offices. However, our ability to control the operations of our franchisees is limited because their businesses are independently owned and operated. Franchisees retain control over the employment and management of all personnel, including the large number of seasonal employees required during the tax season. Although we can exercise control over our franchisees and their operations to a certain extent under the terms of our franchise agreements to, among other things, maintain signage and equipment, standardize operating procedures, approve suppliers, distributors and products, protect the goodwill of our intellectual property and require compliance with 10 Table of Contents law and our compliance standards, the quality of their operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Consequently, our franchisees may not operate their offices in a manner consistent with our philosophy and standards or may not increase the level of revenues generated compared to prior tax seasons. While we ultimately can take action to terminate franchisees that do not comply with the standards contained in our franchise agreements, and even though we have implemented increased compliance and monitoring functions, we may not be able to identify problems and take action quickly enough and, as a result, our image and reputation may suffer, causing our revenues or profitability to decline. We may be held responsible by third parties, regulators or courts for the actions of, or failures to act by, our franchisees or their employees, which exposes us to possible fines, other liabilities and negative publicity. Our agreements with our franchisees require that they understand and comply with all laws and regulations applicable to their businesses. However, our franchisees are independently owned and operated and have a significant amount of flexibility in running their operations. Third parties, regulators or courts may seek to hold us responsible for the actions or failures to act by our franchisees or their employees. In addition, we are parties to agreements with retailers, such as Wal-Mart, and, to a certain extent, financial institutions that provide financial products to our customers, under which we may, in certain circumstances, indemnify third parties for our and our franchisees’ failure to perform obligations and/or comply with laws and regulations applicable to us or them. There are also occasions when our and our franchisees’ activities are not perceived to be distinguishable, and we may be held liable for the activities of our franchisees or their employees. Failure to comply with laws and regulations by our franchisees may expose us to possible fines, other liabilities, lawsuits and negative publicity which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal and state legislators and regulators have increasingly taken an active role in regulating financial products such as RALs, and the continuation of this trend could impede our ability to facilitate these financial products and reduce demand for our services and harm our business. From time to time, government officials at the federal and state levels introduce and enact legislation and regulations proposing to regulate the facilitation of RALs and other financial products. Certain of the proposed legislation and regulations could, if adopted, increase costs to us, our franchisees and the financial institutions that provide our financial products, or could negatively impact or eliminate the ability of financial institutions to provide RALs and other financial products through tax return preparation offices, which could cause our revenues or profitability to decline. The federal government and certain states from time to time propose legislation that could further this initiative. On October 17, 2007, the United States Department of Defense issued regulations limiting the annual percentage rate on RALs for active duty service members and their dependents. In 2008, our franchisees did not facilitate RALs to active duty service members or their dependents. The failure to facilitate such a product in the future could cause our revenues or profitability to decline. On January 3, 2008, the IRS issued an ANPRM regarding whether the disclosure and use of tax return information by tax preparers for the marketing of RALs and certain other products should be permitted. The initial comment period for the ANPRM ended on April 7, 2008. The IRS is now reviewing the comments that it received. Following such review, the IRS may issue a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. If such a rule were adopted, we may be required to change business practices which could alter the way RALs and certain other products are facilitated and which could cause our revenues or profitability to decline. Many states have statutes regulating, through licensing and other requirements, the activities of brokering loans and providing credit repair services to consumers as well as payday loan laws and local usury laws. Certain state regulators are interpreting these laws in a manner that could adversely affect the manner in which RALs and other financial products are facilitated or result in fines or penalties to us or our franchisees. Additional states may interpret these laws in a manner that is adverse to how we currently conduct our business or how we have 11 Table of Contents conducted our business in the past and we may be required to change business practices or otherwise comply with these statutes or it could result in fines or penalties or other payments related to past conduct. We from time to time receive inquiries from various state regulatory agencies regarding the facilitation of RALs and other financial products. We have in certain states paid fines, penalties and other payments, as well as agreed to injunctive relief, to resolve these matters. In addition, consumer advocacy groups have increasingly called for a legislative and regulatory response to the perceived inequity of these types of financial products. Increased regulatory activity in this area could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure by us, our franchisees or the financial institutions that provide financial products to our customers through us and our franchisees to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, including with respect to tax return preparation or financial products, could result in substantial sanctions against us or require changes to our business practices which could harm our profitability and reputation. Our tax return preparation business, including our franchise operations and facilitation of financial products such as RALs, are subject to extensive regulation and oversight in the United States by the IRS, the FTC and by federal and state regulatory and law enforcement agencies. If governmental agencies having jurisdiction over our operations were to conclude that our business practices, the practices of our franchisees, or those of the financial institutions, violate applicable laws, we could become subject to sanctions which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These sanctions may include, without limitation: (i) civil monetary damages and penalties; (ii) criminal penalties; and (iii) injunctions or other restrictions on the manner in which we conduct our business. In addition, the financial institutions that provide financial products such as RALs to our customers are also subject to significant regulation and oversight by federal and state regulators, including banking regulators. The failure of these financial institutions to comply with the regulatory requirements of federal and state government regulatory bodies, including banking and consumer protection laws, could affect their ability to continue to provide financial products to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customers’ inability to obtain financial products through our tax return preparation offices could cause our revenues or profitability to decline. We also may be required to change business practices which could alter the way RALs and other financial products are facilitated which could cause our revenues or profitability to decline. Our tax return preparation compliance program may not be successful in detecting all problems in our network. Although our tax return preparation compliance program seeks to monitor the activities of our network, it is unlikely to detect every problem. While we have implemented a variety of measures to enhance tax return preparation compliance as well as our monitoring of these activities, there can be no assurance that franchisees and tax preparers will follow these procedures. Failure to detect tax return preparation compliance issues could harm our reputation and expose us to the risk of government investigation or litigation which could cause our revenues or profitability to decline. Changes in the law that result in increased regulation of tax return preparers could make it more difficult to find qualified tax preparers and could harm our business. From time to time, the federal government and various states consider regulations regarding the education, testing, licensing, certification and registration of tax return preparers. Such regulations could impact our ability 12 Table of Contents to find an adequate number of tax return preparers to meet the demands of our customers and impose additional costs on us to train tax return preparers, which could cause our revenues and profitability to decline. Our facilitation of RALs and other financial products exposes us to the risk of significant losses as a result of litigation defense and resolution costs. Companies that facilitate RALs and other financial products have been subject, from time to time, to individual and class action lawsuits. These lawsuits have alleged, among other claims, collusion between the tax return preparers and financial product provider in violation of law and claims of fraud, unfair competition, misleading or deceptive statements, violation of credit services statutes, and breach of fiduciary duty on the part of the tax return preparers for failing to, among other things, properly disclose the terms of the financial product. We have been named as a defendant in several purported class action lawsuits in connection with our facilitation of RALs. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” Given the large number of financial products, including RALs, we facilitate every year and the inherent uncertainties of the United States legal system, we could experience significant losses as a result of litigation defense and resolution costs, which could cause our profitability to decline. Our insurance coverage may not cover all risks associated with our business. We have various insurance policies related to the risks associated with our business, including errors and omissions insurance and directors and officers insurance. However, in the event of a claim there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be sufficient or that our insurance companies will cover the matters claimed. The failure of adequate insurance coverage or recovery could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with laws and regulations that protect our customers’ personal and financial information could result in significant fines, harm our brand and reputation and expose us to litigation defense and resolution costs. Privacy concerns relating to the disclosure of customers’ personal and financial information have drawn increased attention from federal and state governments. The IRS generally prohibits the use and disclosure by tax return preparers of tax return information without the prior written consent of the taxpayer. In addition, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and other FTC regulations require income tax return preparers to adopt and disclose customer privacy policies and provide customers with a reasonable opportunity to opt out of having personal information disclosed to unaffiliated third parties for marketing purposes. Federal and state law also requires us to safeguard our customers’ financial information, including credit card information. Although we have established security procedures to protect against identity theft and the theft of our customers’ financial information, breaches of our customers’ privacy may occur. To the extent the measures we, and/or our franchisees, have taken prove to be insufficient or inadequate, we may become subject to litigation or administrative sanctions, which could result in significant fines, penalties or damages and harm to our brand and reputation. In addition, changes in these federal and state regulatory requirements could result in more stringent requirements and could result in a need to change business practices, including how information is disclosed. These changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results depend on the effectiveness of our marketing and advertising programs and franchisee support of these programs. Our revenues are heavily influenced by brand marketing and advertising. During the 2008 tax season, our brand was negatively affected by the adverse publicity related to the DOJ Lawsuits and our marketing messages 13 Table of Contents were not as effective as needed. Our marketing and advertising programs in the future may not be successful, which may lead us to fail to attract new customers and retain existing customers. If our marketing and advertising programs are unsuccessful and the image of our brand is not strengthened, our revenues or profitability could decline. Moreover, because franchisees contribute to our marketing fund based on a percentage of their gross sales, our marketing fund expenditures are dependent upon sales volumes of our franchisees. If these sales decline, as occurred during the 2008 tax season, there will be a reduced amount available for our marketing and advertising programs. The support of our franchisees is critical for the success of our marketing programs and any new strategic initiatives we seek to undertake. While we can mandate certain strategic initiatives through enforcement of our franchise agreements, we need the active support of our franchisees if the implementation of our marketing programs and strategic initiatives is to be successful. Although we believe that our current relationships with our franchisees are generally good, there can be no assurance that our franchisees will continue to support our marketing programs and strategic initiatives. The failure of our franchisees to support our marketing programs and strategic initiatives would adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results depend on the continued success and growth of our franchise system. The continued success and growth of our franchise system depends on our maintaining a satisfactory working relationship with our franchisees. Lawsuits and other disputes with our franchisees, or disputes between our franchisees and our financial partners, could discourage our franchisees from expanding their business within our network or lead to negative publicity, which could discourage new franchisees from entering our network or existing franchisees from renewing their franchise agreements, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Several of our franchisees have filed purported class action lawsuits against SBB&T and HSBC relating to the terms of the contracts between the franchisees and the financial product providers and the manner in which financial products are facilitated. The after effects of the negative publicity relating to the DOJ Lawsuits and the IRS examination of us could also discourage new franchisees from entering the system or existing franchisees from renewing their franchise agreements. In 1999 and 2000, we offered our franchisees the opportunity to renew their franchise relationship with us before their franchise agreement expired. In these early renewal programs, 93% of our franchisees entered into a new franchise agreement for a new 10-year term, and, as a result, approximately a third of our existing franchise agreements come up for renewal in 2009 or 2010. Our inability to renew a significant portion of these franchise agreements on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is, to some extent, dependent upon our customers’ ability to obtain financial products through our offices. Our tax return preparation business is, to some extent, dependent on our customers’ ability to obtain financial products through our tax return preparation offices. The financial products we facilitate are specialized financial products and relatively few financial institutions offer them. If our arrangements with the financial institutions that provide financial products were to terminate, and we were unable to enter into an alternative relationship with one or more other financial institutions on acceptable terms or at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our franchisees have filed purported class action lawsuits against SBB&T and HSBC relating to the terms of the contracts between the franchisees and the financial product providers and the manner in which financial products are facilitated. SBB&T and HSBC have submitted indemnification claims to the Company in regards to these lawsuits. If it is ultimately determined that indemnification is applicable, we could experience significant losses as a result of litigation defense and resolution costs, which could cause our profitability to decline. These lawsuits could also negatively impact our relationship with our financial product providers. 14 Table of Contents In addition, we earn revenues under our agreements with the providers of financial products to our customers. Changes in the industry or how financial products are permitted to be provided could result in the termination of these agreements, affect the manner in which financial products are offered or cause our revenues or profitability to decline. Disruptions in our relationships with large retailers and shopping malls could negatively affect our growth and profitability. Our retail-partner locations are an important part of our location strategy. In 2008, over 1,300 of our retail-partner locations were located within Wal-Mart stores. Our ability to operate in these locations is dependent on our ability to negotiate favorable agreements with retailers and shopping malls and on the continued operation of these stores. Our agreements with retailers and shopping malls are of limited duration, and we may not be able to renew them on similar terms or at all and many of these agreements are not exclusive. In addition, renewal of each individual location may be dependent of the conduct of the individual operator seeking to open a Jackson Hewitt Tax Service office in the location. In the event we are unable to negotiate favorable agreements with these or comparable retailers or shopping malls or they close a significant number of stores, especially immediately prior to or during the tax season, or our operators are unsuccessful in opening these locations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The highly seasonal nature of our business presents a number of financial risks and operational challenges which if we fail to meet could materially affect our business. Our business is highly seasonal. We generate substantially all our revenues during the period from January 1 through April 30. The concentration of our revenue-generating activity during this relatively short period presents a number of operational challenges for us and our franchisees, including: (i) cash and resource management during the first eight months of our fiscal year, when we generally operate at a loss and incur fixed costs and costs of preparing for the upcoming tax season; (ii) flexible staffing, because the number of employees at our network’s offices during the peak of the tax season is exponentially higher than at any other time; (iii) accurate forecasting of revenues and expenses; and (iv) ensuring optimal uninterrupted operations during tax season. If we were unable to meet these challenges or we were to experience significant business interruptions during the tax season, which may be caused by labor shortages, systems failures, work stoppages, adverse weather or other events, many of which are beyond our control, we could experience a loss of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition in our business that may negatively impact our revenues, profitability and market position. The paid tax return preparation market is highly competitive. Our network competes with tens of thousands of paid tax return preparers and regional and national accounting firms and financial service institutions that prepare tax returns as part of their businesses. Some of these firms are larger and better capitalized. We also face competitive challenges from the online and software self preparer market, including Free File Alliance, a consortium of the IRS and online preparation services that provides free online tax return preparation and filing, and from volunteer organizations that prepare tax returns at no cost for low-income taxpayers. The availability of these alternatives may reduce demand for our products and limit the amount of fees that we can charge. Competitors may develop or offer more attractive or lower cost products and services than ours which could erode our customer base. In addition, an increase in use of free tax return preparation services could result in a loss of our customers and could cause revenues or profitability to decline. Additionally, federal and state governments may in the future become direct competitors to our tax offerings. Were federal and state governments to provide their own software and electronic filing services to taxpayers at no charge it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our business relies on technology systems and electronic communications, which, if disrupted, could significantly affect our business. Our ability to file tax returns electronically and to facilitate financial products depends on our ability to electronically communicate with all of our network’s offices, the IRS and the financial institutions that provide these financial products. Our electronic communications network is subject to disruptions of various magnitudes and durations. Any severe disruption of our network or electronic communications, especially during the tax season, could impair our ability to complete our customers’ tax filings, to facilitate financial products and to provide technology services to the financial institutions providing financial products or to maintain our operations, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may harm our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third party allegations of infringement may be costly. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our trademarks or other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. The actions we take to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights may not be adequate. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. There are no assurances that we will be able to prevent infringement of our intellectual property rights or misappropriation of our proprietary information. Any infringement or misappropriation could harm any competitive advantage we currently derive or may derive from our proprietary rights. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us. Any claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could require us to design around a third party’s patent or to license alternative technology from another party. In addition, litigation is time-consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of our time and resources. Any claims from third parties may also result in limitations on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims. We are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. We are a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, all our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries. As a holding company, we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements or other obligations. If our subsidiaries are unable to pay us dividends and make other payments to us when needed, we will be unable to satisfy our obligations. Our credit facility contains restrictive covenants and other requirements that may limit our business flexibility by imposing operating and financial restrictions on our operations. The agreement governing our credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictive covenants that will require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests. In addition, our credit facility contains various customary restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, (i) incur additional indebtedness or guarantees, (ii) create liens or other encumbrances on our property, (iii) enter into a merger or similar transaction, (iv) sell or transfer property except in the ordinary course of business, (v) make dividend and other restricted payments, (vi) make share repurchases and (vii) make acquisitions. Our ability to comply with the ratios or tests in our credit facility may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. A breach of any of these covenants, ratios or tests could result in a default under our credit facility. In addition, these covenants may prevent us from incurring additional indebtedness to expand our operations and execute our business strategy, including making acquisitions or share repurchases. 16 Table of Contents Our floating rate debt financing exposes us to interest rate risk. We may borrow amounts under our credit facility that bear interest at rates that vary with prevailing market interest rates. Accordingly, a rise in market interest rates will adversely affect our financial results. We expect to draw most heavily on this credit facility from May through February of each year and then repay a significant portion of the borrowings by the end of each tax season. Therefore, a significant rise in interest rates during our off-season will have a disproportionate impact on our profitability. Because the tax season is relatively short and straddles two quarters, our quarterly results may not be indicative of our performance, which may increase the volatility of the trading price of our common stock. We experience quarterly variations in revenues and operating income as a result of many factors, including the highly seasonal nature of the tax return preparation business, the timing of off-season activities and the hiring of personnel. Due to the foregoing factors, our quarter-to-quarter results vary significantly. In addition, because our peak period straddles the third and fourth quarters and a variety of factors may result in a delay or acceleration in the number of tax returns processed in January, year-to-year quarterly comparisons are not as meaningful as year-to-year tax season comparisons. To the extent our quarterly results vary significantly from year to year, our stock price may be subject to significant volatility. Although we intend to pay dividends in the future, our financial condition, debt covenants or Delaware law may prohibit us from doing so. Our payment of dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, capital requirements and financial condition. Our ability to pay dividends will be subject to compliance with customary financial covenants that are contained in our credit facility. Dividends may also be limited or prohibited by any future borrowings or issuances of preferred stock. In addition, applicable law requires that our board of directors determine that we have adequate surplus prior to the declaration of dividends. There can be no assurance that we will pay dividends at the levels currently anticipated or at all. We are subject to certain provisions that may have the effect of hindering, delaying or preventing third party takeovers, which may prevent our shareholders from receiving premium prices for their shares in an unsolicited takeover and make it more difficult for third parties to replace our current management. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and our rights plan contain several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions include, among other things, a classified board of directors, the elimination of stockholder action by written consent, advance notice for raising business or making nominations at meetings and “blank check” preferred stock. Blank check preferred stock enables our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to designate and issue additional series of preferred stock with such dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, including the right to issue convertible securities with no limitations on conversion, as our board of directors may determine are appropriate, including rights to dividends and proceeds in a liquidation that are senior to the common stock. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting common stock. We are also subject to certain provisions of Delaware law which could delay, deter or prevent us from entering into an acquisition, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder unless specific conditions are met. These provisions also may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock. 17 Table of Contents In addition, our stockholder rights plan entitles our stockholders to acquire shares of our common stock at a price equal to 50% of the then current market value in limited circumstances when a third party acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock (excluding as a result of share repurchases by us) or announces its intent to commence a tender offer for at least 15% of our common stock, in each case, in a transaction that our board of directors does not approve. Because, under these limited circumstances, all of our stockholders would become entitled to affect discounted purchases of our common stock, other than the person or group that caused the rights to become exercisable, the existence of these rights would significantly increase the cost of acquiring control of us without the support of our board of directors. The existence of the rights plan could therefore deter potential acquirers and thereby reduce the likelihood that a stockholder will receive a premium for his or her common stock in an acquisition. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to detect fraud or report our financial results accurately, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to detect and prevent fraud. We periodically assess our system of internal controls, and the internal controls of service providers upon which we rely, to review their effectiveness and identify potential areas of improvement. These assessments may conclude that enhancements, modifications or changes to our system of internal controls are necessary. Performing assessments of internal controls, implementing necessary changes, and maintaining an effective internal controls process is expensive and requires considerable management attention. Internal control systems are designed in part upon assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and all such systems, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. If we fail to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls or prevent fraud, we could suffer losses, could be subject to costly litigation, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and our brand and operating results could be harmed, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we and our independent registered public accounting firm must certify the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting annually. Identification of material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting by us or our independent registered public accounting firm could adversely affect our competitive position in our business, and the market price for our common stock. Goodwill impairment charges can cause significant fluctuation in our net income. We may incur impairment charges related to the goodwill already recorded and to goodwill arising out of future acquisitions, particularly related to our company-owned operations goodwill. At April 30, 2008, we had $414.9 million in goodwill on our balance sheet, of which $78.1 million is related to our company-owned operations. Following the significant decline in operating margins experienced in fiscal 2008, to the extent that our company-owned operations do not achieve expected growth in profitability and cash flows, among other assumptions, we may be subject to a goodwill impairment charge. Any impairment of the value of our goodwill could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. There were no unresolved staff comments. 18 Table of Contents 