Item 1A. Risk Factors We depend on Martin Cohen and Robert Steers, our co-chairmen and co-chief executive officers, and the loss of their services would have a material adverse effect on us. We depend on the efforts of Mr. Cohen and Mr. Steers. Mr. Cohen and Mr. Steers head each of our investment committees with our president, Joseph Harvey, and they oversee the portfolio manager and research teams responsible for each of our portfolio strategies. Although we expect Mr. Cohen and Mr. Steers to continue to act in their current positions, the loss of their services would have a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we lose key personnel. The market for qualified portfolio managers is extremely competitive. It is imperative for us to add and retain the portfolio managers and investment analysts that form the foundation of our company. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. In addition, our investment professionals and senior marketing personnel have direct contact with our institutional separate account clients, which can lead to strong client relationships. The loss of these personnel could jeopardize our relationships with certain institutional separate account clients, and result in the loss of such accounts. Further, our investment banking business relies on the expertise, business origination efforts and client relationships of our three senior investment banking professionals. The loss of these professionals could result in the loss of our investment banking clients and jeopardize the viability of our investment banking business. Moreover, we employ compensation mechanisms involving the use of equity compensation that may not be effective, especially if the market price of our common stock declines. For example, in connection with our initial public offering in 2004, certain management level employees received restricted stock units (“RSUs”). The majority of the shares of common stock underlying these RSUs will be delivered in January 2007 and in January 2008. The delivery of the shares underlying these RSUs may adversely affect our ability to retain 7 these employees or require us to increase the level of compensation that they receive in order to do so. The loss of key personnel or the inability to recruit and retain portfolio managers, marketing personnel or investment banking professionals could have a material adverse effect on our business. A decline in the prices of securities could lead to a decline in revenue and earnings. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from the investment advisory and administration fees we receive from our clients. These fees are based on the market value of the assets underlying the agreements that govern the fee calculations. Accordingly, a decline in the price of the securities in which we invest on behalf of our clients generally, and real estate securities in particular, could cause our revenue and earnings to decline. In addition, a decline in the market value of these assets could cause our clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity or lower risk, which could also negatively impact our revenue and earnings. The securities markets are highly volatile, and securities prices may increase or decrease for many reasons, including economic, financial or political events. A general decline in the performance of securities in the real estate sector could have an adverse effect on the assets we manage and our revenue. As of December 31, 2006, 59% of the assets we managed were concentrated in U.S. real estate common stocks and 19% were concentrated in non-U.S. real estate securities. Real estate securities and real property investments owned by the issuers of real estate securities are subject to varying degrees of risk. The returns from investments in real estate depend on the amount of income and capital appreciation generated by the related properties. Income and real estate values may also be adversely affected by such factors as applicable laws (e.g., Americans with Disabilities Act and tax laws), interest rate levels, and the availability of financing. If the properties do not generate sufficient income to meet operating expenses, the income and ability of a real estate company to make payments of any interest and principal on debt securities or any dividends on common or preferred stocks will be adversely affected. In addition, real property and loans on real property may be subject to the quality of credit extended and defaults by borrowers and tenants. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, the ability of real estate companies to vary their portfolios promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions is limited. A real estate company may also have joint venture investments in certain properties and, consequently, its ability to control decisions relating to such properties may be limited. Declines in the performance of real estate securities could reduce the assets we manage and our revenue. Our growth may be constrained by the limited size and number of issuers in the real estate securities market. Real estate securities investment continues to play an important role in the overall prospects of our business. Our ability to continue our growth in real estate securities management depends in part on growth in the size and number of issuers in the real estate securities market, particularly in the United States. For example, due to the constraints in the size and number of U.S. public real estate securities and issuers, we have in the past and may in the future stop accepting new assets in real estate securities institutional separate account portfolios in certain strategies and in certain open-end mutual funds. We also may be constrained in our ability to sponsor new closed-end mutual funds that invest primarily or significantly in U.S. real estate securities. Such constraints may impair our ability to increase the assets we manage and our revenue. We may have limited ability to raise further closed-end mutual fund assets to manage. Market conditions may preclude us from increasing the assets we manage in closed-end mutual funds. A significant portion of our recent growth in the assets we manage has resulted from public offerings of the common and preferred shares of closed-end mutual funds, and as of December 31, 2006, we raised $8.7 billion in closed-end mutual fund offerings of common and preferred shares since May 2001. The market conditions for these offerings may not be as favorable now or in the future, which could adversely impact our ability to grow the assets we manage and our revenue. We may incur losses associated with our underwriting activities, which could adversely affect results and may negatively affect our earnings. Advisors may act as an underwriter or selling group member in both equity and fixed income product offerings. Particularly when acting as lead or co-lead manager, Advisors has legal exposure. 8 Underwriting involves both economic and litigation risks. An underwriter may incur losses if it is unable to resell the securities it is committed to purchase, or if it is forced to liquidate its commitments at less than the agreed purchase price. In addition, an underwriter is subject to substantial potential liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other communications with respect to underwritten offerings. Furthermore, because underwriting commitments require a charge against net capital, Advisors could find it necessary to limit its underwriting participations to remain in compliance with regulatory net capital requirements. Our clients can withdraw the assets we manage on short notice, making our future client and revenue base unpredictable. Our investment advisory and administration agreements are generally terminable upon 60 or fewer days notice. In addition, open-end mutual fund investors may redeem their investments in the mutual funds at any time without prior notice. Moreover, each investment advisory agreement, including the fees payable thereunder, with a mutual fund is subject to annual approval by the mutual fund’s board, as well as by a majority of the directors who are not interested persons as defined by the Act; such approval may not be granted. Institutional and individual clients, and firms with which we have strategic alliances, can terminate their relationships with us, reduce the aggregate amount of the assets we manage or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for any of a number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates and financial market performance. In a declining stock market, the pace of mutual fund redemptions could accelerate. Poor performance relative to other asset management firms tends to result in decreased purchases of mutual fund shares, increased redemptions of mutual fund shares, and the loss of institutional or individual accounts. Under certain circumstances, stockholder activists may pressure closed-end mutual funds for which we are the investment advisor to tender for their shares, open-end, liquidate or take other actions that may adversely affect the fees we receive from the affected closed-end mutual funds. The decrease in revenue that could result from any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, as required by the Act and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, each of our investment advisory agreements automatically terminates upon its “assignment.” A sale of a sufficient number of shares of our voting securities could be deemed an “assignment” in certain circumstances. An assignment, actual or constructive, will trigger these termination provisions and may adversely affect our ability to continue managing open-end and closed-end mutual funds and institutional separate accounts. Loss of significant institutional separate accounts would decrease our revenue. We managed 69 institutional separate account portfolios at December 31, 2006, of which the eight largest represented approximately 49% of the institutional separate account assets we managed and approximately 15% of the total assets we managed. Approximately 6% of our total revenue in 2006 was derived from our eight largest institutional separate account portfolios. Loss of , or a significant withdrawal from, any of these institutional separate accounts would reduce our revenue. We have, from time to time, lost institutional separate accounts because of decisions by our clients to reallocate their assets to different asset classes or to move their assets to our competitors. In the future, we could lose accounts under these or other circumstances, such as adverse market conditions or poor investment performance. Future investment performance could reduce the assets we manage and our revenue and income. Success in the asset management business is dependent on investment performance as well as distribution and client service. Relatively poor performance tends to result in decreased sales, increased withdrawals and redemptions in the case of the open-end mutual funds, and in the loss of separately managed accounts, with corresponding decreases in revenue. Many analysts of the mutual fund business believe that investment performance is the most important factor for the growth of open-end mutual funds. Failure of our investment products to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and future growth. Continued rising interest rates could negatively impact our business. Our asset management business could be negatively impacted by rising interest rates. An increase in interest rates could cause the price of certain REITs and other securities in our clients’ portfolios to decline. In addition, an increase in interest rates could negatively impact net flows into open-end mutual funds and institutional separate accounts and our ability to offer new closed-end mutual funds. These events would negatively affect our revenue and net income. 9 The inability to access clients through intermediaries could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to distribute mutual funds and subadvisory services is highly dependent on access to the client base of national and regional securities firms, banks, insurance companies, defined contribution plan administrators and other intermediaries which generally offer competing investment products. To a lesser extent, our institutional separate account asset management business depends on recommendations by consultants, financial planners and other professional advisors, as well as our existing clients. We may not be able to continue to gain access to these channels. The inability to have this access could have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of the growth in the mutual fund assets we manage in recent years has been accessed through intermediaries, including Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith, Inc., UBS Securities LLC, Wachovia Capital Markets LLC and Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. Loss of any of these distribution channels, and the inability to access clients through new distribution channels, could adversely affect our results of operations and business prospects. Fee pressures could reduce our revenue and profitability. There has been a trend toward lower fees in some segments of the asset management business. In order for us to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to provide clients with investment returns and service that will encourage them to be willing to pay such fees. In addition, the SEC has adopted rules that are designed to improve mutual fund corporate governance. These rules could result in further downward pressure on investment advisory fees in the mutual fund industry. Accordingly, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure or take advantage of scheduled fee increases. Fee reductions on existing or future new business would have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. Our business strategy may not be successful. Our business strategy involves diversifying our asset management business to include products and services outside the U.S. real estate securities area. This has entailed hiring additional portfolio managers in areas in which we do not have significant prior experience as well as opening offices both within and outside the United States. In the future, it may entail acquiring other asset management firms. We may not be successful in locating and hiring or acquiring such portfolio managers or asset management firms and any such hiring activity or acquisitions may not be successful. In addition, our business prospects and future growth are subject to our ability to successfully manage multiple offices and navigate legal and regulatory systems outside the United States. Furthermore, a change in the current tax treatment of dividends could aversely impact our business strategy. We could experience losses and significant volatility in connection with the activities of our investment banking business. Our investment banking business operates in a highly competitive environment where there are no long-term contracted sources of revenue. Investment banking assignments are generally related to specific capital raising, merger or acquisition transactions or restructuring projects. Because these transactions are singular in nature and are not likely to recur, the investment banking business must seek new assignments when current assignments are successfully completed or are terminated. Only a limited proportion of investment banking engagements result in a completed transaction for which a fee is earned. The employees of the investment banking business can spend significant amounts of time on transactions that are not completed and for which no fee will be earned. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in any other period and the revenue and profitability of our investment banking business can be very volatile. When an investment banking engagement is terminated, whether due to the cancellation of a transaction due to market reasons or otherwise, we may earn limited or no fees and may not be able to recover the costs that we incurred prior to that termination. Moreover, each year we advise a limited number of investment banking clients. The composition of the group comprising our largest clients varies significantly from year to year. We expect that our investment banking engagements will continue to be limited to a relatively small number of clients and that an even smaller number of those clients will account for a high percentage of revenue in any particular year. Consequently, the adverse impact on the results of our investment banking business of one lost mandate or the failure of one transaction or restructuring on which we are advising to be completed could be significant. 10 Compliance failures and changes in regulation could adversely affect us. Our asset management business is subject to client guidelines and our mutual fund business involves compliance with numerous investment, asset valuation, distribution and tax requirements. A failure to adhere to these guidelines or satisfy these requirements could result in losses that could be recovered by the client from us in certain circumstances. Our businesses are also subject to extensive regulation in the United States, including by the SEC and the NASD and internationally, including the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority, the Belgium Banking, Finance and Insurance Commission and the Luxembourg Commission de Surveillance de Secteaur Financier. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of the registration of any of our subsidiaries as an investment advisor or broker/dealer. Changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies could have a material adverse effect on us. These changes could have a substantial impact on the regulation and operation of mutual funds and could adversely affect the assets we manage and our revenue and net income. Further, we may require additional staff to satisfy these obligations, which would increase our operating expenses. Regulatory developments designed to increase the independence of mutual fund boards of directors may result in downward pressure on our fees and could result in mutual funds not renewing their investment advisory and administration agreements with us. The SEC has adopted rules relating to the composition of mutual fund boards of directors and the practices of the independent directors who serve on those boards. The SEC has also adopted rules that require mutual fund shareholder reports to discuss, in reasonable detail, the material factors and conclusions that formed the basis for the approval by a mutual fund’s board of directors of any investment advisory agreement, including the fees payable under the agreement. The board of directors of each mutual fund for which we are the investment advisor, including at least a majority of the mutual fund’s independent directors, must determine both initially and, following the initial two year term, annually thereafter that the mutual fund’s investment advisory fee is reasonable in relation to, among other things, the performance of the mutual fund, the services provided by the investment advisor and the advisory fees charged to comparable mutual funds. These directors have a fiduciary duty to the mutual fund shareholders. If regulatory developments designed to increase the independence of mutual fund boards of directors result in reductions in the fees payable to other fund managers, this could in turn result in downward pressure on our fees. In addition, the continued receipt of revenue by our asset management business is subject to the risk that our mutual fund boards of directors may determine not to renew investment advisory and administration agreements with us or that they may renew such agreements at lower fee rates than are then in effect. Failure to comply with “fair value” pricing and late trading policies and procedures may adversely affect us. The SEC has adopted rules that require mutual funds to adopt “fair value” pricing procedures to address time zone arbitrage, selective disclosure procedures to protect mutual fund portfolio information and procedures to ensure compliance with a mutual fund’s disclosed market timing policy. SEC rules also require our funds to ensure compliance with their own market timing policies. Our funds are subject to these rules and, in the event of non-compliance, we may be required to disgorge certain revenue. In addition, we could have penalties imposed on us, be required to pay fines or be subject to private litigation which could decrease our future income, or negatively impact our current business and our future growth prospects. New regulations restricting the use of “soft dollars” could result in an increase of our expenses. On behalf of our mutual fund and investment advisory clients, we make decisions to buy and sell securities for each portfolio, select broker/dealers to execute trades and negotiate brokerage commission rates. In connection with these transactions, we may receive “soft dollar credits” from broker/dealers that have the effect of defraying certain of our expenses. If the ability of asset managers to use “soft dollars” were reduced or eliminated our operating expenses would potentially have increased by approximately $1.6 million in 2006. We would expect a similar increase in operating expenses for future periods if the use of “soft dollars” was eliminated or significantly reduced. The asset management industry is intensely competitive. Our funds and separate accounts compete against an ever-increasing number of investment products and services sold to the public by investment management companies, investment dealers, banks, insurance 11 companies and others. Many institutions competing with us have greater resources than we do. We compete with other providers of investment products on the basis of the products offered, the investment performance of such products, quality of service, fees charged, the level and type of financial intermediary compensation, the manner in which such products are marketed and distributed, our reputation and the services provided to investors. In addition, our ability to market investment products is highly dependent on access to the various distribution systems of national and regional securities dealer firms, which generally offer competing internally and externally managed investment products which could limit the distribution of our investment products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain access to these channels. The inability to have such access could have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent that existing or potential customers, including securities broker/dealers, decide to invest in or broaden distribution relationships with our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenues and net income could decline. Failure to maintain adequate infrastructure could impede our ability to support business growth. We continue to experience significant growth in our business activities, both domestically and internationally. We must maintain adequate infrastructure to support this growth, including technological capacity, data centers, backup facilities and sufficient space for expanding staff levels. The failure to maintain an infrastructure commensurate with our expansion, particularly our international expansion, could impede our growth, which could cause our earnings or stock price to decline. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK We are controlled by Mr. Cohen and Mr. Steers, whose interests may differ from those of other stockholders. Our principals, Mr. Cohen and Mr. Steers, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 59% of our common stock as of March 12, 2007. As long as Mr. Cohen and Mr. Steers control a majority of the common stock, they will have the ability to, among other things: • elect all of the members of our board of directors and thereby control our management and affairs; • determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders for approval; and • preclude any unsolicited acquisition of us and, consequently, adversely affect the market price of the common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium on their shares. The interests of our principals could differ from those of other stockholders in instances where, for example, our principals’ compensation is being determined or where an unsolicited acquisition of us could result in a change in our management. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the issuance of additional shares will dilute all other stockholdings. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our principals, who beneficially own, in the aggregate, 23,350,535 shares of our common stock as of March 12, 2007, have advised us that they intend to sell additional shares of our common stock over a period of time, subject to the securities laws restrictions on sales by affiliates. We granted our principals and two trusts benefiting their families, their affiliates and certain of their transferees the right to require us to register under the Securities Act of 1933 shares of our common stock (and other securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of common stock) held by them under certain circumstances. In August 2006, we filed a registration statement that covered resales of an aggregate of 15,500,000 shares owned by Messrs. Cohen and Steers and other selling shareholders and 4,500,000 primary shares to be offered and sold by us. In December 2006, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Steers and a trust benefiting Mr. Steers’ family, sold an aggregate of 1,500,000 shares and we sold two million shares of our stock in a registered public offering under this registration statement. 12 Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable by permitting our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. In addition, provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law restrict certain business combinations with interested stockholders. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has no unresolved SEC comments. 