Item 1A. RISK FACTORS As a financial holding company, our earnings are dependent upon the performance of our bank as well as on business, economic and political conditions. Intermountain is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank. Our right to participate in the assets of the Bank upon the Bank’s liquidation, reorganization or otherwise will be subject to the claims of the Bank’s creditors, which will take priority except to the extent that we may be a creditor with a recognized claim. The Company is subject to certain restrictions on the amount of dividends that it may declare without prior regulatory approval. These restrictions may affect the amount of dividends the Company may declare for distribution to its shareholders in the future. Earnings are impacted by business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate. Business and economic conditions that negatively impact household or corporate incomes could decrease the demand for our products and increase the number of customers who fail to pay their loans. A further downturn in the local economies or real estate markets could negatively impact our banking business. The Company has a high concentration in the real estate market and a further downturn in the local economies or real estate markets could negatively impact our banking business. Because we primarily serve individuals and 26 Table of Contents businesses located in northern, southwestern and southcentral Idaho, eastern Washington and southeastern Oregon, a significant portion of our total loan portfolio is originated in these areas or secured by real estate or other assets located in these areas. As a result of this geographic concentration, the ability of customers to repay their loans, and consequently our results, are impacted by the economic and business conditions in our market areas. Any adverse economic or business developments or natural disasters in these areas could cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures our loans or could negatively affect the ability of borrowers to make payments of principal and interest on the underlying loans. In the event of such adverse development or natural disaster, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would more likely suffer losses on defaulted loans. Furthermore, current uncertain geopolitical trends and variable economic trends, including uncertainty regarding economic growth, inflation and unemployment, may negatively impact businesses in our markets. While the short-term and long-term effects of these events remain uncertain, they could adversely affect general economic conditions, consumer confidence, market liquidity or result in changes in interest rates, any of which could have a negative impact on the banking business. The allowance for loan losses may be inadequate. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We therefore may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Increases in this allowance result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions or a decrease in asset quality, management determines that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses are necessary, we may incur additional expenses. Our loans are primarily secured by real estate, including a concentration of properties located in northern, southwestern and southcentral Idaho, eastern Washington and southeastern Oregon. If an earthquake, volcanic eruption or other natural disaster were to occur in one of our major market areas, loan losses could occur that are not incorporated in the existing allowance for loan losses. Additional market concern over investment securities backed by mortgage loans could create losses in the Company’s investment portfolio A majority of the Company’s investment portfolio is comprised of securities where mortgages are the underlying collateral. These securities include agency-guaranteed mortgage backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations and non-agency-guaranteed mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. With the national downturn in real estate markets and the rising mortgage delinquency and foreclosure rates, investors are increasingly concerned about these types of securities. The potential for subsequent discounting, if continuing for a long period of time, could lead to other than temporary impairment in the value of these investments. This impairment could negatively impact earnings and the Company’s capital position. We cannot predict the effect of the recently enacted federal rescue plans. Congress enacted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, which was intended to stabilize the financial markets, including providing funding of up to $700 billion to purchase troubled assets and loans from financial institutions. The legislation also increased the amount of FDIC deposit account insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 for interest-bearing deposit accounts and non-interest bearing transaction accounts, the latter of which are fully insured until December 31, 2009. 27 Table of Contents More recently, Congress enacted the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), which was intended to provide fiscal stimulus to the economy through a combination of tax cuts and spending increases. The ARRA also included additional restrictions on executive compensation for banks who already received or will receive TARP funds in the future, and directed the U.S. Treasury Department to issue regulations to implement theARRA. The full effect of these wide-ranging pieces of legislation on the national economy and financial institutions, particularly on mid-sized institutions like us, cannot now be predicted. Changes in market interest rates could adversely affect our earnings. Our earnings are impacted by changing market interest rates. Changes in market interest rates impact the level of loans, deposits and investments, the credit profile of existing loans and the rates received on loans and investment securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. One of our primary sources of income from operations is net interest income, which is equal to the difference between the interest income received on interest-earning assets (usually, loans and investment securities) and the interest expense incurred in connection with interest-bearing liabilities (usually, deposits and borrowings). These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, both domestic and foreign, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Net interest income can be affected significantly by changes in market interest rates. Changes in relative interest rates may reduce net interest income as the difference between interest income and interest expense decreases. Market interest rates have shown considerable volatility over the past several years. After rising through much of 2005 and the first half of 2006, short-term market rates flattened and the yield curve inverted through the latter half of 2006 and the first half of 2007. In this environment, short-term market rates were higher than long-term market rates, and the amount of interest we paid on deposits and borrowings increased more quickly than the amount of interest we received on our loans, mortgage-related securities and investment securities. In the latter half of 2007 and throughout 2008, short-term market rates declined significantly and unexpectedly, causing asset yields to decline and margin compression to occur. If this trend continues, it could cause our net interest margin to decline further and profits to decrease. Should rates start rising again, interest rates would likely reduce the value of our investment securities and may decrease demand for loans. Rising rates could also have a negative impact on our results of operations by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations, and may also depress property values, which could affect the value of collateral securing our loans. These circumstances could not only result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures and write-offs, but also necessitate further increases to the allowances for loan losses. Although unlikely given the current level of market interest rates, should they fall further, rates on our assets may fall faster than rates on our liabilities, resulting in decreased income for the bank. Fluctuations in interest rates may also result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from depository institutions into direct investments that pay a higher rate of return and may affect the value of our investment securities and other interest-earning assets. Our cost of funds may increase because of general economic conditions, unfavorable conditions in the capital markets, interest rates and competitive pressures. We have traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are a cheaper source of funds than borrowings, because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. If, as a result of general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures, or other factors, our level of deposits decrease relative to our overall banking operation, we may have to rely more heavily on borrowings as a source of funds in the future, which may negatively impact net interest margin. We may experience future goodwill impairment. Our estimates of the fair value of our goodwill may change as a result of changes in our business or other factors. As a result of new estimates, we may determine that an impairment charge for the decline in the value of goodwill is necessary. Estimates of fair value are based on a complex model using, among other things, cash flows and company comparison. If our estimates of future cash flows or other components of our fair value calculations are inaccurate, the fair value of goodwill reflected in our financial statements could be inaccurate and we could be 28 Table of Contents required to take additional impairment charges, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to successfully implement our internal growth strategy. We have pursued and intend to continue to pursue an internal growth strategy, the success of which will depend primarily on generating an increasing level of loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels and terms without proportionate increases in non-interest expenses. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our internal growth strategy. Furthermore, the success of our growth strategy will depend on maintaining sufficient regulatory capital levels and on continued favorable economic conditions in our market areas. There are risks associated with potential acquisitions. We may make opportunistic acquisitions of other banks or financial institutions from time to time that further our business strategy. These acquisitions could involve numerous risks including lower than expected performance or higher than expected costs, difficulties in the integration of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, changes in relationships with customers and the potential loss of key employees. Any acquisitions will be subject to regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such approvals. We may not be successful in identifying further acquisition candidates, integrating acquired institutions or preventing deposit erosion or loan quality deterioration at acquired institutions. Competition for acquisitions in our market area is highly competitive, and we may not be able to acquire other institutions on attractive terms. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing future acquisitions, or if such transactions are completed, that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses into our operations. Our ability to grow may be limited if we are unable to successfully make future acquisitions. We may not be able to replace key members of management or attract and retain qualified relationship managers in the future. We depend on the services of existing management to carry out our business and investment strategies. As we expand, we will need to continue to attract and retain additional management and other qualified staff. In particular, because we plan to continue to expand our locations, products and services, we will need to continue to attract and retain qualified commercial banking personnel and investment advisors. Competition for such personnel is significant in our geographic market areas. The loss of the services of any management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial conditions and prospects. We are expanding our lending activities in riskier areas. We have expanded our lending into commercial real estate and commercial business loans. While increased lending diversification is expected to increase interest income, non-residential loans carry greater historical risk of payment default than long-term prime residential real estate loans. As the volume of these loans increase, credit risk may increase. In the event of substantial borrower defaults, our provision for loan losses would increase and therefore, earnings would be reduced. As the Company lends in diversified areas such as commercial real estate, commercial, agricultural, real estate, commercial construction and residential construction, the Company may incur additional risk if one lending area experienced difficulties due to economic conditions. Our stock price can be volatile; we cannot predict how the national economic situation will affect our stock price. Our stock price is not traded at a consistent volume and can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, including actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results, recommendations by securities analysts and news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. Other factors include new technology used or services offered by our competitors, operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us, and changes in government regulations. 29 Table of Contents The national economy and the financial services sector in particular, is currently facing challenges of a scope unprecedented in recent history. No one can predict the severity or duration of this national downturn, which has adversely impacted the markets we serve. Any further deterioration in our markets would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and could also cause the trading price of our stock to decline. Current volatility in the subprime and prime mortgage markets could have additional negative impacts on the Company’s lending operations. Weakness in the subprime mortgage market has spread into all mortgage markets and generally impacted lending operations of many financial institutions. The Company is not significantly involved in subprime mortgage activities, so its current direct exposure is limited. However, to the extent the subprime market volatility further affects the marketability of all mortgage loans, the real estate market, and consumer and business spending in general, it may continue to have an indirect adverse impact on the Company’s lending operations, loan balances and non-interest income and, ultimately, its net income. A continued tightening of the credit markets may make it difficult to obtain adequate funding for loan growth, which could adversely affect our earnings. A continued tightening of the credit markets and the inability to obtain or retain adequate money to fund continued loan growth may negatively affect our asset growth and liquidity position and, therefore, our earnings capability. In addition to core deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, the Company also relies on alternative funding sources through correspondent banks, the national certificates of deposit market and borrowing lines with the Federal Reserve Bank and FHLB to fund loans. In the event the current economic downturn continues, particularly in the housing market, these resources could be negatively affected, both as to price and availability, which would limit and or raise the cost of the funds available to the Company. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal state and local laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal, state or local legislation could have a substantial impact on us and our operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws or regulations by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. These powers recently have been utilized more frequently due to the serious national, regional and local economic conditions we are facing. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The FDIC has increased insurance premiums to rebuild and maintain the federal deposit insurance fund and we may separately incur state statutory assessments in the future. Based on recent events and the state of the economy, the FDIC has increased federal deposit insurance premiums beginning in the first quarter of 2009. The increase of these premiums will add to our cost of operations and could have a significant impact on the Company. Depending on any future losses that the FDIC insurance fund may suffer due to failed institutions, there can be no assurance that there will not be additional significant premium increases in order to replenish the fund. On February 27, 2009 the FDIC issued a press release announcing a special Deposit Insurance Fund assessment of 20 basis points on insured institutions and granting the FDIC the authority to impose an additional assessment after June 30, 2009 of up to 10 basis points if necessary. The assessment will be calculated on June 30, 2009 deposit balances and collected on September 30, 2009. Based upon the Company’s December 31, 2008 deposits subject to FDIC insurance assessments, the special assessment will be approximately $1.6 million. 30 Table of Contents Negative publicity regarding the liquidity of financial institutions may have a negative impact on Company operations Publicity and press coverage of the banking industry has been decidedly negative recently. Continued negative reports about the industry may cause both customers and shareholders to question the safety, soundness and liquidity of banks in general or our bank in particular. This may have an adverse impact on both the operations of the Company and its stock price. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 