Item 1A. RISK FACTORSOur business exposes us to certain risks. The following is a discussion of what we currently believe are the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or the value of our common stock.The continued challenging economic environment could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations or market price of our stock.The national economy and the financial services sector in particular, are still facing significant challenges. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in northern, southwestern and south central Idaho, eastern Washington and southwestern Oregon, markets facing many of the same challenges as the national economy, including elevated unemployment and declines in commercial and residential real estate. Although some economic indicators are improving both nationally and in the markets we serve, unemployment remains high and there remains substantial uncertainty regarding when and how strongly a sustained economic recovery will occur. A further deterioration in economic conditions in the nation as a whole or in the markets we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have an adverse impact, which may be material, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and could also cause the market price of our stock to decline:•economic conditions may worsen, increasing the likelihood of credit defaults by borrowers;•loan collateral values, especially as they relate to commercial and residential real estate, may decline further, thereby increasing the severity of loss in the event of loan defaults;•nonperforming assets and write-downs of assets underlying troubled credits could adversely affect our earnings;•demand for banking products and services may decline, including services for low cost and non-interest-bearing deposits; and•changes and volatility in interest rates may negatively impact the yields on earning assets and the cost of interest-bearing liabilities. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings.We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an amount that we believe is adequate to provide for losses inherent in our loan portfolio. While we strive to carefully manage and monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may be deteriorating, at any time there are loans included in the portfolio that may result in losses, but that have not yet been identified as potential problem loans. Through established credit practices, we attempt to identify deteriorating loans and adjust the loan loss reserve accordingly. However, because future events are uncertain, there may be loans that deteriorate in an accelerated time frame. As a result, future additions to the allowance may be necessary. Because the loan portfolio contains a number of loans with relatively large balances, deterioration in the credit quality of one or more of these loans may require a significant increase to the allowance for loan losses. Future additions to the allowance may also be required based on changes in the financial condition of borrowers, such as have resulted due to the current, economic conditions or as a result of actual events turning out differently than forecasted in the assumptions we use to determine the allowance for loan losses. With respect to real estate loans and property taken in satisfaction of such loans (“other real estate owned” or “OREO”), we can be required to recognize significant declines in the value of the underlying real estate collateral or OREO quite suddenly as new appraisals are performed in the normal course of monitoring the credit quality of the loans. There are many factors that can cause the appraised value of real estate to decline, including declines in the general real estate market, changes in methodology applied by the appraiser, and/or using a different appraiser than was used for the prior appraisal. Our ability to recover on real estate loans by selling or disposing of the underlying real estate collateral is adversely impacted by declining appraised values, which increases the likelihood we will suffer losses on defaulted loans beyond the amounts provided for in the allowance for loan losses. This, in turn, could require material increases in our provision for loan losses.Additionally, federal banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. These regulatory agencies may require us to recognize further loan loss provisions or charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from ours. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses would have a negative effect, which may be material, on our financial condition and results of operations.We have entered into an informal agreement with our regulators to take steps to further strengthen the Bank.The Bank has entered into an informal agreement with the FDIC and the Idaho Department of Finance to take steps to further strengthen the Bank within specified timeframes, including, among other items, increasing capital by at least $30 million by June 16, 2010 and thereafter maintaining a minimum 10% Tier 1 Capital to Average Assets ratio, not paying dividends from the Bank to the Company without prior approval, achieving staged reductions in the Bank's adversely classified assets and not engaging in transactions that would materially alter our balance sheet composition. Management has taken numerous steps to satisfy the 19conditions of the agreement, including raising net proceeds of approximately $42.2 million in the recent capital raise and contributing $30 million as additional capital to the Bank. Although management has taken these steps, there can be no assurance as to when, or if, the informal agreement will be lifted.If the proceeds from the recent private placement and the expected proceeds from the planned Rights Offering are not sufficient to satisfy our capital and liquidity needs or to satisfy changing regulatory requirements, we may need even more capital and could be subject to further regulatory restrictions, either of which could significantly adversely affect us and the trading price of our stock.The proceeds from the recent private placement and the expected proceeds from the planned Rights Offering have been raised, or will be raised, to strengthen our common equity capital base. Despite this increase in our capital base, if the proceeds from the private placement and the expected proceeds from the Rights Offering are not sufficient, or if economic conditions continue to be difficult or worsen or fail to improve in a timely manner, or if there is further deterioration in economic conditions in the nation as a whole or in the markets we serve, particularly in the residential and commercial real estate markets, we may need to raise significant additional capital. Factors affecting whether we would need to raise additional capital include, among others, changing requirements of regulators, further decline in loan collateral values, additional provisions for loan losses and loan charge-offs, and other risks discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. If we were to need to raise additional capital, there can be no assurance that we would be able to do so in the amounts required and in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, any such additional capital raised may be significantly dilutive to our existing shareholders and may result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to our Common Stock. As a result of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreements, Castle Creek Capital Partners IV, L.P. (“Castle Creek”) and affiliates of Stadium Capital Management LLC (“Stadium”) became substantial holders of our Common Stock.Upon the completion of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreements, Castle Creek and Stadium each became holders of a 33.3% ownership interest, and 9.9% and 14.9% voting interest, respectively, in Intermountain (after giving effect to the exercise of certain warrants issued thereby). Stadium has a representative on our board and each has the right to an observer and has a representative on the Bank's Board of Directors. Although Castle Creek and Stadium each entered into certain passivity agreements with the Federal Reserve in connection with their investments in us, Castle Creek and Stadium each have substantial influence over our corporate policy and business strategy. In pursuing their economic interests, Castle Creek and Stadium may have interests that are different from the interests of our other shareholders.Resales of our Common Shares in the public market may cause the market price of our Common Shares to fall.We issued a large number of shares of Common Stock and securities convertible into common stock to the Investors pursuant to the Purchase Agreements. The Investors have certain registration rights with respect to the shares of Common Stock and securities convertible into common stock held by them. The registration rights for the Investors will allow them to sell their shares without compliance with the volume and manner of sale limitations under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. The market value of our Common Stock could decline as a result of sales by the Investors from time to time of a substantial amount of the shares of Common Stock and securities convertible into common stock held by them.We have incurred significant losses in recent years and may incur losses again in the future.We have incurred significant losses in recent years. While there has been continued improvement in the quality of our loan portfolio and a corresponding improvement in operating results, economic conditions remain uncertain. As such, significant additional provisions for credit losses may be necessary to supplement the allowance for loan and lease losses in the future, which could cause us to incur a net loss in the future and could adversely affect the price of, and market for, our common stock.Concentration in real estate loans and the deterioration in the real estate markets we serve could require material increases in our allowance for loan losses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.The current economic downturn and sluggish recovery is significantly affecting our market areas. At December 31, 2011, 61.7% of our loans were secured with real estate as the primary collateral. Further deterioration or a slow recovery in the local economies we serve could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations due to a weakening of our borrowers' ability to repay these loans and a decline in the value of the collateral securing them. In light of the continuing effects of the economic downturn of the past three years, real estate values have been adversely affected. As we have experienced, significant declines in real estate collateral can occur quite suddenly as new appraisals are performed in the normal course of monitoring the credit quality of the loan. Significant declines in the value of real estate collateral due to new appraisals can occur due to declines in the real estate market, changes in methodology applied by the appraiser, and/or using a different appraiser than was used for the prior appraisal. Our ability to recover on these loans by selling or disposing of the underlying real estate collateral is adversely impacted by declining real estate values, which increases the likelihood we will suffer losses on defaulted loans secured by real estate beyond the amounts provided for in the allowance for loan losses. This, in turn, could require material increases in our allowance for loan losses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially.20Non-performing assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.At December 31, 2011, our non-performing loans (which consist of non-accrual loans and loans that are 90 days or more past due) were 1.85% of the loan portfolio. At December 31, 2011, our non-performing assets (which also include OREO) were 1.71% of total assets. The level of non-performing loans to net loans decreased from 2.04% at December 31, 2010, to 1.85% at December 31, 2011, but the level of non-performing assets to total assets increased from 1.59% at December 31, 2010 to 1.71% at December 31, 2011 , and remains at elevated levels compared to historical norms. Non-performing loans and assets adversely affect us in a variety of ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, we may expect to continue to incur losses relating to elevated levels of non-performing assets. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans, thereby adversely affecting our net interest income and increasing loan administration costs. When we receive collateral through foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related loan to the then fair market value of the collateral, which may ultimately result in a loss. An increase in the level of non-performing assets also increases our risk profile and may impact the capital levels our regulators believe are appropriate in light of such risks. We utilize various techniques such as loan sales, workouts and restructurings to manage our problem assets. Decreases in the value of these problem assets, the underlying collateral, or in the borrowers' performance or financial condition could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, perhaps materially. In addition, the resolution of non-performing assets requires significant commitments of time from management and staff, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. We may experience increases in non-performing loans and assets in the future.Our ability to receive dividends from our banking subsidiary accounts for most of our revenue and could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends.We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking subsidiary, Panhandle State Bank. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our banking subsidiary. Under normal circumstances, these dividends are the principal source of funds to fund holding company expenses and pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and principal and interest on our outstanding debt. The other primary sources of liquidity for the parent Company are capital or borrowings. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay us. For example, Idaho law limits a bank's ability to pay dividends subject to surplus reserve requirements. In addition, as noted above, we have entered into an informal agreement with our regulators prohibiting the payment of dividends from the Bank to the Company without prior approval. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. Limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiary could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on common or preferred stock. Additionally, if our subsidiary's earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common and preferred shareholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt.In this regard, we have suspended payments on our trust preferred securities and Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (the “Series A Preferred Stock”). As of April, 2012, we will have not paid dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for a total of ten quarterly dividend periods, which gives the U.S. Treasury the right to appoint two directors to our board of directors until all accrued but unpaid dividends have been paid. If we do not make payments on our trust preferred securities for over 20 consecutive quarters, we could be in default under those securities.A continued tightening of credit markets and liquidity risk could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.A continued tightening of the credit markets or any inability to obtain adequate funds for continued loan growth at an acceptable cost could negatively affect our asset growth and liquidity position and, therefore, our earnings capability. In addition to core deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, the Bank also relies on alternative funding sources including unsecured borrowing lines with correspondent banks, borrowing lines with the Federal Home Loan Bank and the Federal Reserve Bank, public time certificates of deposits and out of area and brokered time certificates of deposit. Our ability to access these sources could be impaired by deterioration in our financial condition as well as factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations for the financial services industry or serious dislocation in the general credit markets. In the event such disruption should occur, our ability to access these sources could be negatively affected, both as to price and availability, which would limit, and/or potentially raise the cost of, the funds available to the Company. The FDIC has increased insurance premiums and imposed special assessments to rebuild and maintain the federal deposit insurance fund, and any additional future premium increases or special assessments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In 2009, the FDIC imposed a special deposit insurance assessment of five basis points on all insured institutions, and also required insured institutions to prepay estimated quarterly risk-based assessments through 2012.The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% as the minimum deposit insurance fund reserve ratio. The FDIC has determined that the fund reserve ratio should be 2.0% and has adopted a plan under which it will meet the statutory minimum fund reserve ratio of 1.35% by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect on institutions 21with assets less than $10 billion of the increase in the statutory minimum fund reserve ratio to 1.35% from the former statutory minimum of 1.15%. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC issued final rules, effective April 1, 2011, implementing changes to the assessment rules resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act. The adopted regulations: (1) modify the definition of an institution's deposit insurance assessment base; (2) alter certain adjustments to the assessment rates; (3) revise the assessment rate schedules in light of the new assessment base and altered adjustments; and (4) provide for the automatic adjustment of the assessment rates in the future when the reserve ratio reaches certain milestones.Despite the FDIC's actions to restore the deposit insurance fund, the fund will suffer additional losses in the future due to failures of insured institutions. There may be additional significant deposit insurance premium increases, special assessments or prepayments in order to restore the insurance fund's reserve ratio. Any significant premium increases or special assessments could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.We may be required, in the future, to recognize impairment with respect to investment securities, including the FHLB stock we hold.Our securities portfolio contains whole loan private mortgage-backed securities and currently includes securities with unrecognized losses. The national downturn in real estate markets and elevated mortgage delinquency and foreclosure rates have increased credit losses in the portfolio of loans underlying these securities and resulted in substantial discounts in their market values. While these trends appear to have stabilized, any further deterioration in the loans underlying these securities and resulting market discounts could lead to other-than-temporary impairment in the value of these investments. We evaluate the securities portfolio for any other-than-temporary impairment each reporting period, as required by generally accepted accounting principles, and as of December 31, 2011, two securities had been determined to be other than temporarily impaired (“OTTI”), with the cumulative impairment totaling $3.5 million. Of this $3.5 million, $1.5 million has been recognized as a credit loss through the Company's income statement since the determination of OTTI. The remaining $2.0 million has been recognized in other comprehensive income. Future evaluations of our securities portfolio may require us to recognize additional impairment charges with respect to these and other holdings. For example, it is possible that government-sponsored programs to allow mortgages to be refinanced to lower rates could materially adversely impact the yield on our portfolio of mortgage-backed securities, since a significant portion of our investment portfolio is composed of such securities.In addition, as a condition to membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle (“FHLB”), we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB. At December 31, 2011, we had stock in the FHLB of Seattle totaling $2.3 million. The FHLB stock held by us is carried at cost and is subject to recoverability testing under applicable accounting standards. The FHLB has discontinued the repurchase of its stock and discontinued the distribution of dividends. As of December 31, 2011, we did not recognize an impairment charge related to our FHLB stock holdings. However, future negative changes to the financial condition of the FHLB may require us to recognize an impairment charge with respect to FHLB stock. Recent levels of market volatility were unprecedented and we cannot predict whether they will return.The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for over three years, at times reaching unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain companies without regard to those companies' underlying financial strength. If similar levels of market disruption and volatility return, we may experience various adverse effects, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We operate in a highly regulated environment and we cannot predict the effects of recent and pending federal legislation.As discussed further in the section “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this Report, we are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. In addition, as a publicly traded company, we are subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any change in applicable regulations or federal, state or local legislation, or in policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement, income tax laws and accounting principles, could have a substantial impact on us and our operations. Changes in laws and regulations may also increase our expenses by imposing additional fees or taxes or restrictions on our operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to appropriately comply with any such laws, regulations or principles could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies or damage to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.In that regard, sweeping financial regulatory reform legislation was enacted in July 2010. Among other provisions, the legislation (i) created a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection with broad powers to regulate consumer financial products such as credit cards and mortgages, (ii) created a Financial Stability Oversight Council comprised of the heads of other regulatory agencies, (iii) will lead to new capital requirements from federal banking agencies, (iv) places new limits on electronic debit card 22interchange fees, and (v) requires the Securities and Exchange Commission and national stock exchanges to adopt significant new corporate governance and executive compensation reforms. The new legislation and regulations are expected to increase the overall costs of regulatory compliance.Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws or regulations by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. Recently, these powers have been utilized more frequently due to the serious national, regional and local economic conditions we are facing. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board.We cannot predict the full effects of recent legislation or the various other governmental, regulatory, monetary and fiscal initiatives which have been and may be enacted on the financial markets generally, or on the Company and on the Bank specifically. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock.Fluctuating interest rates could adversely affect our profitability.Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and re-pricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest margin, and, in turn, our profitability. We manage our interest rate risk within established guidelines and generally seek an asset and liability structure that insulates net interest income from large deviations attributable to changes in market rates. However, our interest rate risk management practices may not be effective in a highly volatile rate environment.The current unusual interest rate environment poses particular challenges. Market rates are extremely low right now and the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that it will likely maintain low short-term interest rates for the foreseeable future. This extended period of low rates, when combined with keen competition for high-quality borrowers, may cause additional downward pressure on the yield on the Company's loan and investment portfolios. Since the Company's cost of interest-bearing liabilities is already at record lows, the impact of decreasing asset yields may have a more adverse impact on the Company's net interest income.Fluctuations in interest rates on loans could adversely affect our business.Significant increases in market interest rates on loans, or the perception that an increase may occur, could adversely affect both our ability to originate new loans and our ability to grow. Conversely, decreases in interest rates could result in an acceleration of loan prepayments. An increase in market interest rates could also adversely affect the ability of our floating-rate borrowers to meet their higher payment obligations. If this occurred, it could cause an increase in nonperforming assets and charge offs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services.The banking and financial services businesses in our market area are highly competitive and increased competition may adversely impact the level of our loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. These competitors include national banks, foreign banks, regional banks, and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include both major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns and credit unions, whose tax-advantaged status allow them to compete aggressively. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain loan and deposit customers, and a range in quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to maintain or grow our loans or deposits.We may not be able to successfully implement our internal growth strategy.Over the long-term, we have pursued and intend to continue to pursue an internal growth strategy, the success of which will depend primarily on generating an increasing level of loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels and terms without proportionate increases in non-interest expenses. We may not be successful in implementing our internal growth strategy. Furthermore, the success of our growth strategy will depend on maintaining sufficient regulatory capital levels and on favorable economic conditions in our market areas.Certain built-in losses could be limited since we experienced an ownership change, as defined in the Internal Revenue 23Code.Certain of our assets, such as loans, may have built-in losses to the extent the basis of such assets exceeds fair market value. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) may limit the benefit of these built-in losses that exist at the time of an “ownership change.” A Section 382 “ownership change” occurs if a shareholder or a group of shareholders, who are deemed to own at least 5% of our common stock, increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. If an “ownership change” occurs, Section 382 imposes an annual limit on the amount of recognized built-in losses we can use to reduce our taxable income equal to the product of the total value of our outstanding equity immediately prior to the “ownership change” and the federal long-term tax-exempt interest rate in effect for the month of the “ownership change.” A number of special rules apply to calculating this limit. The limitations contained in Section 382 apply for a five-year period beginning on the date of the “ownership change” and any recognized built-in losses that are limited by Section 382 may be carried forward and reduce our future taxable income for up to 20 years, after which they expire. The recent completion of our $47.3 million capital raise constituted an “ownership change”, which may cause the annual limit of Section 382 to defer our ability to use some, or all, of the built-in losses to offset taxable income. We are still calculating the potential impacts of the “ownership change”.Unexpected losses, our inability to successfully implement our tax planning strategies in future reporting periods, or IRS Section 382 limitations resulting from the successful completion of the capital raise may either restrict our ability to release the existing valuation allowance against our deferred income tax assets or require us to increase the valuation allowance in the future.We evaluate our deferred income tax assets for recoverability based on all available evidence. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws, our ability to successfully implement tax planning strategies, or variances between our future projected operating performance and our actual results. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred income tax assets if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred income tax assets may not be realized. In determining the more-likely-than-not criterion, we evaluate all positive and negative available evidence as of the end of each reporting period. In this regard, we established a valuation allowance for deferred income tax assets of $8.8 million in 2010. Future adjustments to the deferred income tax asset valuation allowance, if any, will be determined based upon changes in the expected realization of the net deferred income tax assets. The realization of the deferred income tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law.The recoverability of tax benefits resulting from net operating loss carryforwards will be limited by the sale of securities pursuant to the Purchase Agreements, because such sale caused an “ownership change”, as defined in IRC Section 382. In addition, risk based capital rules require a regulatory calculation evaluating the Company's deferred income tax asset balance for realization against estimated pre-tax future income and net operating loss carry backs. Under the rules of this calculation and due to significant estimates utilized in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that we will be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in future reporting periods that would materially reduce our risk based capital ratios. Such a charge could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and capital position.As noted above, based on the composition of the investors, the completion of the $47.3 million capital raise is likely to trigger IRC Section 382 limitations on the amount of tax benefit from net operating losses and other carryforwards that the Company can claim annually. These anticipated IRC Section 382 limitations will impact the amount and timing of the recapture of the valuation allowance, the calculation of which is dependent on the level of market interest rates and the fair value of the Company's balance sheet at the time the capital raise closed. We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal risk and compliance risk, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations.We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems.If personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties.Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our 24operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that we (or our vendors') business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability of us to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially.Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements.From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be very difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. The market for our Common Stock historically has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations.The market for our Common Stock historically has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations similar to those experienced by the broader stock market in recent years. Generally, the fluctuations experienced by the broader stock market have affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the price of our Common Stock. In addition, our announcements of our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us, our affiliates or our competitors could cause the market price of our Common Stock to fluctuate substantially.We have not paid dividends on our Common Stock historically, are currently restricted from paying dividends, and may not pay any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future.We have not paid cash dividends historically, nor do we expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We are subject to certain restrictions on the amount of dividends we may pay without prior regulatory approval. In this regard, we have entered into an informal agreement with the Federal Reserve and the Idaho Department of Finance (“IDF”) which provides, among other things, that we may not pay cash dividends on our Common Stock without the prior written approval of the Federal Reserve and the IDF. In addition, we are currently restricted from paying dividends on our Common Stock due to the deferral of interest and dividend payments on our junior subordinated debentures and the Series A Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury. Our profitability measures could be adversely affected if we are unable to effectively deploy the capital raised in our recent capital raise. We expect to use the proceeds from the recent capital raise and the proposed rights offering to make capital contributions to and strengthen the balance sheet of the Bank, for other general corporate purposes and as otherwise provided for in the securities purchase agreements with investors. Investing the proceeds of the capital raise and the rights offering in securities until we are able to deploy the proceeds would provide lower margins than we generally earn on loans, potentially adversely impacting shareholder returns, by adversely affecting earnings per share, net interest margin, return on assets and return on equity, and other common performance measures. We may pursue additional capital in the future, which could dilute the holders of our outstanding Common Stock and may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock.Although we have just completed a significant capital raise, in the current economic environment we believe it is prudent to consider alternatives for raising capital when opportunities to raise capital at attractive prices present themselves, in order to further strengthen our capital and better position ourselves to take advantage of opportunities that may arise in the future. Such alternatives may include issuance and sale of Common Stock or Preferred Stock, or borrowings by the Company, with proceeds contributed to the Bank. Any such capital raising alternatives could dilute the holders of our outstanding Common Stock and may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Our Common Stock is equity and therefore is subordinate to our indebtedness and Preferred Stock.Shares of our Common Stock are equity interests in the Company and do not constitute indebtedness. As such, shares of our Common Stock will rank junior to all indebtedness and other non-equity claims on the Company with respect to assets available to satisfy claims on the Company, including in a liquidation of the Company. Additionally, holders of our Common Stock are subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of any holders of our Preferred Stock then outstanding. Our Series A Preferred Stock diminishes the net income available to our common stockholders and earnings per common share.We have issued $27.0 million of Series A Preferred Stock to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to the Troubled Asset Relief Program 25(“TARP”) Capital Purchase Program. The dividends accrued on the Series A Preferred Stock reduce the net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Stock is cumulative, which means that any dividends not declared or paid will accumulate and will be payable when the payment of dividends is resumed. We have deferred the payment of quarterly dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock, beginning in December 2009. Despite these deferrals, the Company fully intends to meet all of its obligations to the Treasury as quickly as it is prudent to do so. The dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock will increase from 5% to 9% per annum five years after its original issuance, or December 2013, if not earlier redeemed. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock prior to the date of this increase, the cost of capital to us will increase substantially. Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the Series A Preferred Stock annual dividend rate could have a material adverse effect on our earnings available to common shareholders and could also adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our common shares. Shares of Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company.Finally, the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock allow the U.S. Treasury to impose additional restrictions, including those on dividends and including unilateral amendments required to comply with changes in applicable federal law. Under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock, our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares is limited. Specifically, we are unable to declare dividend payments on common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares if we are in arrears on the dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. As noted above, we have deferred the payment of dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock and we are therefore currently restricted from paying dividends on our common stock. Further, we are not permitted to increase dividends on our common stock above the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per share declared prior to October 14, 2008 (which was zero) without the U.S. Treasury's approval until the third anniversary of the investment unless all of the Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred.Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock (together the “Preferred Stock”) have certain voting rights that may adversely affect our common shareholders, and the holders of the Preferred Stock may have interests different from our common shareholders.In the event that we do not pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for a total of at least six quarterly dividend periods (whether or not consecutive), as is currently the case, the authorized number of directors of the Corporation shall automatically be increased by two and the U.S. Treasury will have the right to appoint two directors to fill such positions on our board of directors until all accrued but unpaid dividends have been paid. As noted above, we intend to pay the deferred dividends as quickly as it is prudent to do so upon receipt of regulatory approval and resume regular dividend payments. Otherwise, except as required by law, holders of the Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. So long as shares of Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or our Articles of Incorporation, the vote or consent of holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock, and 80% of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock, respectively outstanding is required for:•any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the respective series of Preferred Stock;•any amendments to the rights of the respective series of Preferred Stock so as to adversely effect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of the respective series of Preferred Stock; or•consummation of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the shares of the respective series of Preferred Stock remain outstanding, or if we are not the surviving entity in such transaction, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity and the shares of the respective series of Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities have the rights, preferences, privileges and voting power of the respective series of Preferred Stock.The holders of the Preferred Stock, including the U.S. Treasury, may have different interests from the holders of our Common Stock, and could vote to block the foregoing transactions, even when considered desirable by, or in the best interests of, the holders of our Common Stock.Certain provisions in our Articles of Incorporation could make a third party acquisition of us difficult.Our Articles of Incorporation contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest, merger or otherwise (even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders) and for holders of our Common Stock to receive any related takeover premium for their Common Stock. These provisions may have the effect of lengthening the time required for a person to acquire control of us through a tender offer, a proxy contest, merger or otherwise, and may deter any potentially hostile offers or other efforts to obtain control of us. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock. See “Description of Capital Stock-Antitakeover Effects of Certain Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation.”Because of our participation in TARP, we are subject to restrictions on compensation paid to our executives. Pursuant to the terms of the TARP Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to regulations on compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the U.S. Treasury holds our Series A Preferred Stock. These regulations require us to adopt and follow certain procedures and to restrict the compensation we can pay to key employees. Key impacts of the regulations on 26us include, among other things:•ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of Intermountain;•a prohibition on cash incentive bonuses to our five most highly-compensated employees, subject to limited exceptions;•a prohibition on equity compensation awards to our five most highly-compensated employees other than long-term restricted stock that cannot be sold, other than to pay related taxes, except to the extent the Treasury no longer holds the Series A Preferred Stock;•a prohibition on any severance or change-in-control payments to our senior executive officers and next five most highly-compensated employees;•a required recovery or “clawback” of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive officer or any of the next twenty most highly compensated employees based on financial or other performance criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; and•an agreement not to deduct for tax purposes annual compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive officer.The combined effect of these restrictions may make it more difficult to attract and retain key executives and employees, and the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation may increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNot applicable. 27 