Risk Factors The key risks relating to our business and industry are included below. Additional risks of which we are presently not aware or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business. Sales to a small number of customers represent a substantial portion of our revenues. The loss of any major customers could significantly harm our financial condition. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a relatively small number of customers. Our top customers by revenue are Network Appliance and Seagate Technology. In our 2006 fiscal year, sales to these customers accounted for 46% and 28% of our revenues, respectively. In our 2005 fiscal year these customers accounted for 48% and 30% of our revenues, respectively. It is likely that a small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues in the future. If we were to lose one of our major customers, experience any material reduction in orders from any of these customers or experience a deterioration in our relationships with any of these customers, our financial condition could be significantly harmed. In 2005, Dot Hill Systems Corp a competitor of Xyratex, announced that they had been awarded a program by Network Appliance for the development of a new storage product. In 2006, Xyratex provided nearly all the storage system enclosure requirements of the Network Appliance product lines. Any large penetration of Dot Hill into this account could adversely affect our growth in revenues and harm our financial condition. In 2006, Seagate acquired Maxtor Corp, which was an emerging customer of Xyratex. Immediately following this major consolidation in the disk drive marketplace there was a market share realignment. This created significant volatility in demand for our disk drive production equipment. This increase in 6 volatility in the Storage Infrastructure marketplace is expected to continue into 2007. In addition we understand that Seagate intend to reutilize certain Maxtor equipment which is currently idle. This would create a reduction in demand until the surplus capacity is fully deployed. Also, if one of our major customers is acquired by one of its competitors that is not one of our customers our business with that major customer could reduce or cease altogether. The new parent company may impose a divergent strategy away from our existing technology base, potentially resulting in the loss of business to Xyratex. Our customers operate in an industry that experiences frequent volatility. If any of our top customers were to suffer financial difficulties, whether as a result of downturns in the markets, loss of market share in which they operate or otherwise, our financial condition could be significantly harmed. The markets in which we operate are cyclical and a reduction in customer demand in any particular financial period could significantly harm our financial condition. Customer demand is cyclical in the technology industry in general, and the disk drive production equipment market in particular. One reason for the particular variability in demand for these products is that, for our customers, the decision to invest in new or upgraded production facilities is a strategic decision that involves a significant commitment of their financial resources. A customer’s decision is dependent upon several factors, including its financial condition, the condition and obsolescence of its existing production facilities, the expected demand for its products and general confidence in its business. Our revenues are likely to continue to reflect the cyclical nature of the technology industry. Demand for our disk drive production equipment products is also linked to developments in the disk drive market. The market for disk drives has historically experienced periods of production over-capacity which have in turn led to the deterioration of market prices for data storage products. Consolidation activity could impact the normal pattern of demand versus supply as the hard disk customers move business away from the consolidated entity to achieve an independent dual source strategy. Competitive activity usually increases during this period of market share realignment as each company tries to grow their share and often results in increased disk drive inventories in the channel. The confidence of our customers to invest in new disk drive production equipment does not usually recover until supplies of disk drives are reduced or new technologies are introduced. Future over-capacity and further consolidation in the disk drive market could result in a significant decrease in demand for our products, and this could significantly harm our financial condition. Because original equipment manufacturers comprise a substantial portion of our customer base, we have limited control over the volume and pricing of our products, which could significantly harm our financial condition. We sell our Networked Storage Solutions products primarily to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and our Storage Infrastructure products directly to disk drive manufacturers. As a result, the quantity of products that we sell is significantly affected by our OEM customers’ volume requirements, over which we have little control. We are subject to continued pricing pressures from our customers, particularly our OEM customers. If these volume requirements decrease or pricing pressures increase, our financial condition could be significantly harmed. Our operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations, our period to period comparisons are not necessarily meaningful and we may not meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors. Our revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent upon customer orders in that quarter. We attempt to project future orders based in part on estimates from our major customers. For this purpose, arrangements with major customers will usually include the estimated future volume requirements of that customer. Our customers’ estimated requirements are not always accurate and we therefore cannot predict our quarterly revenues with any degree of certainty. 7 Our typical pricing model is based on several variables (including overall volume of products ordered and the type and cost of components) which also makes it difficult for us to accurately predict future revenues. In addition, we regularly develop new products. Revenues from new products are difficult for us to predict accurately and are usually at a higher initial cost due to the low initial volumes. Any delay in the development of new products could further complicate revenue predictions and result in a reduction in our expected revenues. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past, as shown in the table below. Quarter Revenues Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations (unaudited) (U.S. dollars in thousands) First Quarter 2005 $ 142,523 $ 9,443 Second Quarter 2005 169,604 11,050 Third Quarter 2005 163,918 7,857 Fourth Quarter 2005 203,564 13,539 First Quarter 2006 190,517 6,437 Second Quarter 2006 288,882 24,576 Third Quarter 2006 263,138 17,811 Fourth Quarter 2006 $ 241,096 $ 9,354 In addition, we may derive a significant portion of our revenues in each quarter from a small number of relatively large orders. If one or more of our major customers decides to defer a purchase order in any given quarter, this is likely to result in reduced total revenues for that quarter. Accordingly, comparisons of our quarterly results of operations or other period to period comparisons are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied on as an indication of our future performance. Our quarterly and annual revenues and results of operations may also fluctuate significantly if one or more of the risk factors identified in this Annual Report occurs and, depending upon the timing of that event, may have a disproportionate effect in any given quarter or year. In addition, it is possible that some future results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. Our gross margins may vary based on the configuration of our products and the mix in a period. We derive a significant proportion of our sales from the resale of disk drives as components of our storage systems and the market is highly competitive and subject to intense pricing pressures. Our sales of disk drives generate lower gross margins than other components of our storage systems. As a result if we sell systems with greater disk content our overall gross margins may be negatively affected. Our gross margins have been and may continue to be affected by a variety of other factors, including: · Mix in demand of storage systems containing Fibre Channel, SAS or SATA disk drives. · New product introductions or product enhancements. · Inventory valuation adjustments as a result of changes in demand forecasts or product defects as we transition our product. · Additional freight, transportation and other one-time costs to expedite component purchases or move finished product between locations to satisfy short term changes in demand. · Commoditization of hardware. As hardware becomes more commoditized our overall margins are affected. Without significant differentiation, services and software our margins will be impacted in the future. 8 Decreases in our gross margin from any of these factors could significantly harm our financial condition. Our market is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively. We operate in markets that are highly competitive and subject to rapid change and that are significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. We expect competition to persist and intensify in the future. Our principal sources of competition include: · companies providing storage subsystems and components to OEMs, including Dot Hill Systems Corp., Sanmina-SCI trading as Newisys and LSI trading as Engenio Information Technologies Inc. Additionally we are starting to see more competition arise from larger suppliers, such as EMC and Hitachi, as the lines between enterprise storage and middle tier storage begin to blur. EMC and others are expanding down into our middle to low tier Networked Storage Solutions markets, where there is significant growth, and lower tier suppliers may also attempt to expand upwards to achieve better margins for their products; · Electronic Manufacturing Services (EMS) companies may acquire the necessary skills and intellectual property to enter the Storage Systems marketplace. Sanmina-SCI Corp addresses our market through its subsidiary, Newisys after it completed the acquisition of certain assets from Adaptec Inc., a competitor to our storage systems business; · in-house development efforts by existing and potential customers, particularly in the Storage Infrastructure market; and · collaborations between in-house development teams and emerging technology companies. In addition, we face potential competition from new entrants including our current technology suppliers. Some of our current and potential competitors may have longer operating histories, lower operating costs, or greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources than we do and we cannot assure you that we will have the resources to compete successfully in the future. In addition, some of our competitors have the resources to enable them to adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share or to shift production to lower cost regions. If we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, we could experience profit margin reductions or loss of market share, which could significantly harm our financial condition. Our competitors may consolidate or form alliances with each other in the future. The successful consolidation of two or more of our competitors could result in the combination of their resources and technological capabilities. This could result in a more formidable competitor with improved access to a wider customer base and improved economies of scale and could result in the loss by us of significant market share. In addition, any future consolidation between any of our competitors and any of our suppliers could result in increased costs for the supply of components from that supplier or the need to find an alternative source for the supply of those components. If we are not able to find an alternative supplier then our ability to manufacture our products at acceptable prices or to deliver our products on time could be impaired. Moreover, future consolidation between any of our competitors and any of our customers could result in a decrease in the volume of purchases from that customer or the loss of that customer altogether. Industry consolidation within the markets in which we operate could adversely affect our revenues and negatively impact our competitive position. 9 The success of our business depends on the continued high growth of the volume of digital information and the market for data communication networks. If this growth does not occur at the rate anticipated our business may be significantly harmed. Virtually all of our products find application in data storage and in the establishment and operation of data communication networks. If the growth that we and others have forecasted in the data storage and data communication networking markets does not occur at the rate we expect, our business may be significantly harmed. Claims by third parties that we infringe their intellectual property or that patents on which we rely are invalid could significantly harm our financial condition, and the enforcement of our intellectual property rights may be expensive and could divert valuable company resources. We operate in an industry characterized by frequent disputes over intellectual property. Third parties have in the past asserted, and in the future may assert, patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and make claims that our products and technologies infringe their intellectual property, which could result in infringement lawsuits being filed against us. Any claims, whether made directly against us or through the indemnification arrangements we often enter into with our customers, could result in costly litigation, divert the attention of our technical and management personnel from operating our business, cause product shipment delays, or prevent us from making or selling certain products. In addition, we cannot give assurances that we would prevail in any litigation related to infringement claims against us. Generally, our liability insurance does not cover claims of this type. Moreover, as a result of these sorts of claims, we could be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements which, if available, may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. We expect that providers of storage products will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors increases. We may also need to assert claims against others in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, and we cannot be sure that we would prevail in any future litigation. Any litigation of this nature, whether or not determined in our favor or settled by us, would be costly and could divert valuable company resources. The enforcement by third parties of their intellectual property rights against us or the failure to successfully protect our intellectual property rights could significantly harm our financial condition. Some of our products contain “open source” software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. Some of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called “open source” licenses, which may include, for example, the GNU General Public License, or GPL, the GNU Lesser General Public License, or LGPL, the Mozilla Public License, the BSD License, and the Apache License. Some of these licenses may require as a condition of the license that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating, or using the open source software, that we provide notices with our products, and/or that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. If an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of those open source licenses, we could be required to incur legal expenses in defending against such allegations, and if our defenses were not successful we could be enjoined from distribution of the products that contained the open source software and required to either make the source code for the open source software available, to grant third parties certain rights of further use of our software, or to remove the open source software from our products, which could disrupt our distribution and sale of some of our products. In addition, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could under some of the open source licenses be required to release the source code of our 10 proprietary software. If an author or other third party that distributes open source software were to obtain a judgment against us based on allegations that we had not complied with the terms of any such open source licenses, we could also be subject to liability for copyright infringement damages and breach of contract for our past distribution of such open source software. The markets for our products are characterized by frequent technological innovation. If we do not successfully develop new products in a timely manner our future operating results and competitive position could be significantly harmed. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and technology enhancements, uncertain product life cycles and changes in customer demands. We cannot give assurances that the design of future products will be completed as scheduled, that we will not experience difficulties that delay or prevent successful development, introduction, marketing and licensing of new products, or that any new products that we may introduce will achieve market acceptance or commercial success. In addition, the introduction of products based on new technologies and new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable and could devalue our previous investment in research and development. If we do not successfully develop new products in a timely manner our future profitability and competitive position could be significantly harmed. As a result of rapid technological changes, we may have to exit markets in which we operate. If we cannot manage the impact of the disruption on our existing customer base, our financial condition could be harmed. The markets for our products are also characterized by technological change driven in part by the adoption of new industry standards. These standards coordinate the natural competitive behavior within the technology spaces and provide mechanisms to ensure technology component interoperability can occur. If any of our markets or technology space become completely defined by such standards it would reduce any capability for differentiation or innovation and our affected products would revert to commodity status. This could lower the barriers to entry to our market away from our specialist research and development skills and enable entry for the general-purpose design skills found in some large EMS and Contract Electronic Manufacturing (CEM) companies. Commodity markets are driven by extremely low margins and very aggressive competitive pricing. If our market becomes more commoditized and we fail to deliver innovative value-added alternatives to our customers we will have great difficulty competing against the larger EMS and CEM companies and our financial condition could be harmed. We are dependent on single source suppliers and limited source suppliers for certain key components. Our manufacturing process depends on the availability and timely supply of components which meet our specifications and quality demands. Some of the components that we integrate into our own products are highly specialized and may only be available from a single source or a limited number of suppliers. In particular, we depend on Solectron Corporation as our sole source supplier for the provision of electronic circuit boards. Our reliance on Solectron reduces our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to risks including reduced control over quality assurance, increased production costs and reduced product supply. If we fail to manage effectively our relationship with Solectron, or if Solectron experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our competitive position and reputation could be damaged. Moreover, if any of our suppliers were to cancel or materially change their commitments to us or fail to meet the quality or delivery requirements needed to satisfy customer demand for our products, we could lose time-sensitive orders, be unable to develop or sell some products cost-effectively or on a timely basis, if at all, and have significantly decreased revenues, margins and earnings, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our suppliers may go out of business, be impacted by natural disasters or may cease production of components, and it can take a substantial period of time to 11 qualify a new supplier of components. Moreover, we obtain these components through purchase order arrangements and do not have long-term supply agreements in place with our suppliers. We often aim to lead the market in new technology deployments and leverage unique technology from single source suppliers who are early adopters in the emerging market. Our options in supplier selection in these cases are limited and the supplier based technology may consequently be single sourced until wider adoption of the technology occurs. In such cases any technical issues in the supplier’s technology may cause us to delay shipments of our new technology deployments and therefore harm our financial position. We are heavily dependent on our proprietary technology and our competitors may gain access to this technology. We depend heavily on our proprietary technology and rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property and expertise. We also attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality agreements with our customers, suppliers and employees and through other security measures. Despite these efforts, we cannot give assurances that others will not gain access to our trade secrets or that we can fully protect our intellectual property. In addition, effective trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries in which we operate. Nor can we guarantee that our competitors will not independently develop comparable technologies. We cannot rely on our patents to provide us with any significant competitive advantage. Failure to protect our proprietary rights could significantly harm our financial condition. Our products are complex and may contain defects that are detected only after deployment in complex networks and systems. Our products are highly complex and are designed to form part of larger complex networks and systems. Defects in our products, or in the networks and systems of which they form a part, may directly or indirectly result in: · increased costs and product delays until complex solution level interoperability issues are resolved; · costs associated with the remediation of any problems attributable to our products; · loss of or delays in revenues; · loss of customers; · failure to achieve market acceptance and loss of market share; · increased service and warranty costs; and · increased insurance costs. Defects in our products could also result in legal actions by our customers for property damage, injury or death. Product liability claims could exceed the level of insurance coverage that we have obtained to cover defects in our products. Any significant uninsured claims could significantly harm our financial condition. We may not be able to effectively manage our anticipated growth, the expansion of our operations or the implementation of our new Enterprise Resource Planning infrastructure. We have experienced a period of strong growth which would lead us to believe that we must be capable of managing strong growth in the future. This has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational, engineering and financial resources. In particular, there is a risk that the need to manufacture increasing volumes of products in order to meet large orders may temporarily affect our ability to control quality in the production process and our ability to deliver products on time. Our ability to effectively manage growth and expansion will also require us to continue to 12 implement and improve our operational, financial and management information systems and research and development processes, to train and manage our employees and to continue to develop, maintain and expand our supplier and customer relationships. Any failure to manage this growth effectively could significantly harm our financial condition. We believe we need to invest in a new Enterprise Resource Planning infrastructure throughout the company to sustain our strategic growth objectives. In 2006 we implemented SAP in a pilot location and plan to complete the implementation of SAP across the company by mid 2008. Moving our entire financial and enterprise control systems onto the new SAP system involves significant risks. This may affect our ability to provide accurate quarterly reporting, maintain adequate control over our business or maintain compliance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the future during the transition period. This could result in a loss of confidence in the business externally, adversely affecting some customer orders, shareholder and supplier confidence, and could significantly harm our financial condition. Our future growth depends in part on our successfully identifying and executing acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic relationships. Our growth strategy may involve acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures. For example, in May 2005, we acquired the business of Oliver Design, Inc, a company located in Scotts Valley, California, which develops and sells precision cleaning process technology for use in the magnetic disk media drive production process. In September 2005, we completed the acquisition of nStor Technologies, Inc., a U.S. based developer and provider of data storage subsystems, primarily to OEMs. These transactions involve certain risks resulting from the difficulties of integrating employees, operations, technologies and products. We may incur significant acquisition, administrative and other costs in connection with these transactions, including costs related to the integration of acquired or restructured businesses. In order to successfully integrate acquired operations into our business we may be required to expend significant funds, incur debt or assume liabilities, any of which could negatively affect our operations. In addition, the successful integration of acquired operations may also require substantial attention from our senior management, which may limit the amount of time available to be devoted to the day-to-day operations of our business or the execution of our business strategy. There can be no assurances that any of the businesses we acquire can be successfully integrated or that they will perform well once integrated. Additionally, we may be required to record expenses for write-downs of goodwill or other intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. We have a long and unpredictable sales cycle. Our products are technically complex and we typically supply them in high quantities to a small number of customers. Many of our products are also tailored to meet the specific requirements of individual customers, and are often integrated by our customers into the systems and products that they sell. Factors that affect the length of our sales cycle include: · the time required for testing and evaluating our products before they are deployed; · the size of the deployment; and · the degree of system configuration necessary to deploy our products. As a result, our sales cycle may take up to 18 months, and the length of our sales cycle is frequently unpredictable. In addition, the emerging and evolving nature of the market for the products that we sell may lead prospective customers to postpone their purchasing decisions. We invest resources and incur costs during this cycle that may not be recovered if we do not successfully conclude sales. These factors lead to difficulty in matching revenues with expenses, and to increased expenditures which together may contribute to declines in our results of operations and our share price. 13 We operate in the United States, Asia and the United Kingdom and we cannot predict the impact that risks typically associated with conducting business internationally will have on our business. We have operations in the United States, Asia and the United Kingdom, and we market and sell our products throughout the world. As a result, we are exposed to risks typically associated with conducting business internationally, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include: · significant currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar (in which our revenues are principally denominated) and the U.K. pound (in which certain of our costs are denominated); · complexities of managing our operations in the United States, the United Kingdom and Malaysia; · uncertainty owing to the overlap of different legal regimes, a possibly disadvantageous legal position due to the application of foreign law as well as problems in asserting contractual or other rights across international borders, for example, warranty claims against suppliers and claims for payment against customers; · potentially adverse tax consequences, such as transfer pricing arrangements between the countries in which we operate or a deemed change in the tax residence of one or more of our subsidiaries; · potential tariffs and other trade barriers; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · the burden and expense of complying with the laws and regulations of various jurisdictions; · the impact of a re-occurrence of an outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or any other viral pandemic, such as the avian flu virus, on our employees; · the impact of a natural disaster affecting a large geographical region, for example the Asian earthquake and resulting wide spread tsunami in 2004, could affect either supply lines, our ability to produce products internally or our customers ability to pay or purchase new products; and · the world is experiencing sustained levels of unusual weather patterns in all geographies, which could deteriorate further in the future. As a global operation, we are affected by any adverse weather patterns that cause us to invest in extensive plant and machinery to protect our buildings and production operations across the globe or which adversely affect our ability to ship on time to customers, design product, receive material, or relocate out of a specific geography. The occurrence of any of these events could significantly harm our financial condition. We have experienced operating losses in the past and there can be no assurance that we will be profitable in the future. We do not currently anticipate paying any dividends on our common shares. We recorded operating income of $60.3 million and $44.7 million in our 2006 and 2005 fiscal years respectively and operating losses of $129.5 million and $47.4 million in our 2004 and 2003 fiscal years, respectively. We expect to continue to incur significant product development, administrative and sales and marketing expenses as well as costs associated with potential future acquisitions. Thereafter we will need to generate significant revenues in order to maintain profitability. We cannot assure you that we can sustain or increase operating income on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. We currently intend to retain all available earnings generated by our operations to develop and grow our business and we do not currently anticipate paying any dividends on our common shares. We are dependent upon hiring and retaining highly qualified management and technical personnel. We operate in the storage and networking technology markets. Our key management and technical staff are located in the United Kingdom, United States of America, and in Malaysia. Particularly in the United Kingdom and California there is strong competition for the highly qualified management and technical personnel with experience in our markets that we need to run our business and to develop new 14 technologies and products. In California, in particular, the rate of turnover of key personnel in our markets is high. Our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire and retain well-qualified technical personnel. We also rely heavily on our senior management and their ability to maintain relationships with our key customers. Many of our senior managers would be difficult to replace. In addition, we do not maintain key-person life insurance on any member of our senior management, with the exception of our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of any of our key management or technical personnel could significantly harm our financial condition. We may incur expenses related to obsolescence or devaluation of unsold inventory, or to reserves necessary to protect us against future write-offs of unsold inventory. Failure by us to accurately estimate product demand could cause us to incur expenses related to obsolescence or devaluation of unsold inventory. Due to the nature of our sales arrangements and supply and production arrangements, we may carry a significant amount of unsold inventory. As part of our internal controls, we have comprehensive inventory controls which include management approval for significant inventory purchases and monthly reviews of inventory levels and obsolescence. Historically our costs related to obsolescence have been less than 0.5% of revenues. However, if we fail to accurately estimate product demand, this inventory may lose value or become obsolete before it is sold. This may require us to increase our reserves for obsolete inventory which could significantly harm our financial condition. If our Malaysian subsidiary ceases to receive favorable tax treatment by the Malaysian government we may be subject to tax liability that could significantly harm our financial condition. A large proportion of our revenues are recorded by our Malaysian subsidiary, which benefits from tax incentives granted by the Malaysian government, currently in force until May 2012. Our favorable tax treatment in Malaysia is dependent upon meeting certain requirements set out by the Malaysian authorities and demonstrating to both the Malaysian and the U.K. tax authorities that transactions between the relevant parties take place on an arm’s-length basis. The loss of these tax benefits could increase our tax liabilities for past, current and future years, which could significantly harm our financial condition. Geopolitical military conditions, including terrorist attacks and other acts of war, may materially and adversely affect the markets on which our common shares trade, the markets in which we operate, our operations and our financial condition. Terrorist attacks and other acts of war, and any response to them, may lead to armed hostilities and such developments would likely cause instability in financial markets. Armed hostilities and terrorism may directly impact our facilities, personnel and operations which are located in the United States and internationally, as well as those of our customers and suppliers. Furthermore, severe terrorist attacks or acts of war may result in temporary halts of commercial activity in the affected regions, and may result in reduced demand for our products. These developments could have a material adverse affect on our business and the trading price of our common shares. We could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. Our operations inside and outside the United States are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites. Certain of our operations involve the use of substances regulated under various federal, state and international environmental laws. It is our policy to apply strict standards for environmental protection to sites inside and outside the United States, even if not subject to regulations imposed by local governments. We could also incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, 15 third-party property damage or personal injury claims if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or become non-compliant with environmental permits required at our facilities. The European Parliament has enacted the Restriction on Use of Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS Directive, which restricts the sale of new electrical and electronic equipment containing certain hazardous substances, including lead, which is currently used in some of the products we manufacture. We are working to modify our manufacturing processes to eliminate these hazardous materials from our products and based on information available to us we have complied with the RoHS directive since the new restrictions came into force on July 1, 2006. The costs associated with continued compliance may negatively impact our results of operations and competitive position. We are also working with our suppliers to redesign or reformulate their components containing the hazardous substances to reduce or eliminate these materials from our products. However, if we do not comply with this Directive in the future, we may suffer a loss of revenue, be unable to sell in certain markets or countries and suffer competitive disadvantage. The European Parliament has enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or WEEE Directive, which makes producers of electrical and electronic equipment financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. We may incur financial responsibility for the collection, recycling, treatment or disposal of products covered under the WEEE Directive. Because the EU member states have not fully implemented the WEEE Directive, the nature and extent of the costs to comply and fees or penalties associated with non-compliance are unknown at this time. Costs to comply with the WEEE Directive and similar future legislation, if applicable, may also include legal and regulatory costs and insurance costs. We may also be required to take reserves for costs associated with compliance with these regulations. Similar laws and regulations have been or may be enacted in other regions including the United States, China and Japan. These new restrictions may expand the list of banned hazardous substances or reduce the level of acceptable concentrations of other materials in our products. Although we do not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of our operations and the effect of such laws, there is no assurance that such existing or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Customers and potential customers, particularly in Japan, are requiring compliance with environmental controls more stringent than those required by European legislation. These may be nationally driven or company driven, as leading players in an industry take specific unilateral initiatives in pursuit of a corporate environmental strategy. For example, in Japan some of our potential customers have developed their own environmental standards which include amongst other things restrictions on the type of insulation surrounding copper wire and cables. We will endeavor to comply with these environmental controls but any failure to keep up may harm our ability to work with certain customers or markets. We may identify weaknesses and/or deficiencies with our controls over financial reporting when evaluating these controls for compliance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have recently completed our evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Although our assessment, testing, and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of November 30, 2006, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. In addition, our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm will also be required to report on the effectiveness of these controls in our 2007 fiscal year. If our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our business and reputation could be harmed. We may incur additional expenses and commitment of management’s time in connection with further evaluations, either of which could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our net income. 16 In our 2007 and 2008 fiscal years we are planning to replace our Enterprise Resource Planning system which will have a significant impact on our financial reporting process. The resulting changes in long-established processes may increase the risk of new deficiencies in controls over financial reporting arising. We can give no assurances that any such deficiencies identified may not be significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that may have an adverse effect on our business’ financial condition. Changes in securities laws and regulations have increased and may continue to increase our costs. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, have increased and may continue to increase our expenses as we evaluate the implications of these rules and devote resources to respond to their requirements. In particular, we are incurring additional administrative expense to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management to report on, and for our 2007 fiscal year our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to report on, our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, on which our shares are listed, has also adopted comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. These laws, rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. We also expect these developments to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Further, our board members, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficultly attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which would adversely affect our business. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Fluctuations in the price and volume of shares of technology companies could result in the volatility of our share price. We are a storage and networking technology company. Stock markets generally have recently experienced extensive price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of securities of technology companies in particular have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results of those companies. These market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common shares. You should also be aware that price volatility may be more pronounced if the trading volume of our common shares is low. Our principal shareholders and management own a significant percentage of our company and will be able to exercise significant influence over our company, and their interests may differ from those of our other shareholders. Our executive officers and directors and principal shareholders and their affiliated entities together control approximately 37.5% of our issued and outstanding common shares. Accordingly, these shareholders, if they act together, have significant influence over our affairs. They may exercise this influence by voting at a meeting of the shareholders in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other shareholders. This concentration of ownership also could have the effect of 17 delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us. We are incorporated in Bermuda and, as a result, it may not be possible for shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and a substantial portion of our assets and the majority of our executive officers and directors are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for the holders of our common shares to effect service of process upon us or our directors or officers within the United States or to enforce against us or our directors or officers in the United States court judgments based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. In addition, there is significant doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. Consequently, there is also significant doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would be prepared to entertain an original action in Bermuda based on those laws. We have been advised by our United States and Bermuda legal advisors that the United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based on United States federal or state securities laws, would not be automatically enforceable in Bermuda. Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to shareholders. Holders of our common shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. We are a Bermuda company and, accordingly, we are governed by the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, as amended. The Companies Act differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to United States corporations and shareholders, including: · Interested director transactions: Under the terms of our bye-laws, any director, or any director’s firm, partner or any company with whom any director is associated, may act in a professional capacity for the company, other than as auditor, and such director or such director’s firm, partner or such company is entitled to remuneration for professional services. Our bye-laws require that a director who is directly or indirectly interested in a proposed contract or arrangement declare the nature of that interest as required by the Companies Act 1981, but after such a declaration, unless disqualified by the Chairman of the relevant board meeting, such director may vote in respect of any contract or proposed contract or arrangement in which he or she is interested and may be counted in the quorum at such meeting. United States companies are generally required to obtain the approval of a majority of disinterested directors or the approval of shareholders before entering into any transaction or arrangement in which any of their directors has an interest, unless the transaction or arrangement is fair to the company at the time it is authorized by the company’s board of directors or shareholders. · Business combinations with interested shareholders: United States companies in general may not enter into business combinations with interested shareholders, namely certain large shareholders and affiliates, unless the business combination has been approved by the board of directors in advance or by a supermajority of shareholders or the business combination meets specified conditions. Under Bermuda law, and under our bye-laws, our board of directors may approve certain business combinations with interested shareholders without the need for a shareholder vote although certain business combinations, such as amalgamations, an arrangement under Bermuda 18 law whereby two corporate entities combine and continue as a combined corporate entity but where neither of the original corporate entities cease to exist, usually require shareholder approval. · Shareholder suits: The circumstances in which a shareholder may bring a derivative action in Bermuda are significantly more limited than in the United States. In general, under Bermuda law, derivative actions are permitted only when the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company, is illegal or would result in the violation of the company’s memorandum of association or bye-laws. In addition, Bermuda courts would consider permitting a derivative action for acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or, for instance, acts that require the approval of a greater percentage of the company’s shareholders than those who actually approved them. · Limitations on directors’ liability: Our bye-laws provide that each shareholder agrees to waive any claim or right of action he or she may have, whether individually or in the right of the company, against any director, except with respect to claims or rights of action arising out of the fraud or dishonesty of a director. This waiver may have the effect of barring certain claims against directors arising under U.S. federal securities laws. In general, United States companies may limit the personal liability of their directors as long as they acted in good faith and without knowing violation of law. We have provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include: · a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; · the ability of our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences and privileges of our preference shares and to issue the preference shares without shareholder approval; and · the need for an affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 66% of our voting shares for certain business combination transactions which have not been approved by our board of directors. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. 