Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business exposes us to certain risks. The following is a discussion of what we currently believe are the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or the value of our common stock. We cannot accurately predict the effect of the current economic downturn on our future results of operations or market price of our stock. The national economy and the financial services sector in particular, are currently facing challenges of a scope unprecedented in recent history. We cannot accurately predict the severity or duration of the current economic downturn, which has adversely impacted the markets we serve. Any further deterioration in the economies of the nation as a whole or in our markets would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and could also cause the market price of our stock to decline. The current economic downturn in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase our credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in northern, southwestern and south central Idaho, eastern Washington and southwestern Oregon, and a further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have an adverse impact, which may be material, on our business, financial condition, and results of operations: • economic conditions may worsen, increasing the likelihood of credit defaults by borrowers; • loan collateral values, especially as they relate to commercial and residential real estate, may decline further, thereby increasing the severity of loss in the event of loan defaults; • nonperforming assets and write-downs of assets underlying troubled credits could adversely affect our earnings; • demand for banking products and services may decline, including services for low cost and non-interest-bearing deposits; and • changes and volatility in interest rates may negatively impact the yields on earning assets and the cost of interest-bearing liabilities. 39 Table of Contents Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an amount that we believe is adequate to provide for losses inherent in our loan portfolio. While we strive to carefully manage and monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may be deteriorating, at any time there are loans included in the portfolio that may result in losses, but that have not yet been identified as potential problem loans. Through established credit practices, we attempt to identify deteriorating loans and adjust the loan loss reserve accordingly. However, because future events are uncertain, there may be loans that deteriorate in an accelerated time frame. As a result, future additions to the allowance may be necessary. Because the loan portfolio contains a number of commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, a deterioration in the credit quality of one or more of these loans may require a significant increase to the allowance for loan losses. Future additions to the allowance may also be required based on changes in the financial condition of borrowers, such as have resulted due to the current, and potentially worsening, economic conditions or as a result of incorrect assumptions by management in determining the allowance for loan losses. Additionally, federal banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. These regulatory agencies may require us to recognize further loan loss provisions or charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from ours. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses would have a negative effect, which may be material, on our financial condition and results of operations. We have recently entered into an informal agreement with our regulators to take steps to further strengthen the Bank. Following a recently regularly scheduled examination, the Bank has entered into an informal agreement with the FDIC and the Idaho Department of Finance to take steps to further strengthen the Bank within specified timeframes, including, among other items, increasing capital by at least $30 million by June 16, 2010 and thereafter maintaining a minimum 10% Tier 1 Capital to Average Assets ratio, not paying dividends from the Bank to the Company without prior approval, achieving staged reductions in the Bank’s adversely classified assets and not engaging in transactions that would materially alter our balance sheet composition. Management has initiated steps to satisfy the conditions of the agreement, including seeking and obtaining shareholder approval to increase the Company’s authorized common stock to facilitate raising capital. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in satisfying all of the conditions of the agreement within the specified timeframes. We will pursue additional capital in the future, which could dilute the holders of our outstanding common stock and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the current economic environment, we believe it is prudent to consider alternatives for raising capital when opportunities to raise capital at attractive prices present themselves, in order to further strengthen our capital and better position ourselves to take advantage of opportunities that may arise in the future. In addition, as noted above, we have entered into an informal agreement with our primary regulators to increase capital levels at the Bank. Alternatives for raising capital may include issuance and sale of common or preferred stock, trust preferred securities, or borrowings by the Company, with proceeds contributed to the Bank. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at the time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. We cannot assure you that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any such capital raising alternatives could dilute the holders of our outstanding common stock and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We incurred a significant loss over the last fiscal year and losses may continue in the future. During the 2009 fiscal year, we incurred a net loss available to common shareholders of $23.6 million, or a loss of $2.82 per common share, primarily due to a $36.3 million expense for the provision for credit losses and $5.4 million in OREO expenses and chargedowns. In light of the current economic environment, significant additional provisions for credit losses may be necessary to supplement the allowance for loan and lease losses in the future. As a result, we may incur significant credit costs, including legal and related collection expenses, throughout 2010, which would continue to have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our common stock. Additional credit losses or impairment charges could cause us to incur a net loss in the future and could adversely affect the price of, and market for, our common stock. 40 Table of Contents Concentration in real estate loans and the deterioration in the real estate markets we serve could require material increases in our allowance for loan losses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The economic downturn is significantly affecting our market area. At December 31, 2009, 64.22% of our loans were secured with real estate as the primary collateral. Further deterioration in the local economies we serve could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations due to a weakening of our borrowers’ ability to repay these loans and a decline in the value of the collateral securing them. Our ability to recover on these loans by selling or disposing of the underlying real estate collateral is adversely impacted by declining real estate values, which increases the likelihood we will suffer losses on defaulted loans secured by real estate beyond the amounts provided for in the allowance for loan losses. This, in turn, could require material increases in our allowance for loan losses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. Non-performing assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2009, our non-performing loans (which consist of non-accrual loans and loans that are 90 days or more past due) were 2.91% of the loan portfolio. At December 31, 2009, our non-performing assets (which also include OREO) were 2.83% of total assets. These levels of non-performing loans and assets are at elevated levels compared to historical norms. Non-performing loans and assets adversely affect us in a variety of ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, we may expect to continue to incur losses relating to an increase in non-performing assets. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans, thereby adversely affecting our net interest income and increasing loan administration costs. When we receive collateral through foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related loan to the then fair market value of the collateral, which may ultimately result in a loss. An increase in the level of non-performing assets also increases our risk profile and may impact the capital levels our regulators believe are appropriate in light of such risks. We utilize various techniques such as loan sales, workouts and restructurings to manage our problem assets. Decreases in the value of these problem assets, the underlying collateral, or in the borrowers’ performance or financial condition, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, perhaps materially. In addition, the resolution of non-performing assets requires significant commitments of time from management and staff, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. There can be no assurance that we will not experience increases in non-performing loans and assets in the future. Our ability to receive dividends from our banking subsidiary accounts for most of our revenue and could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking subsidiary, Panhandle State Bank. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our banking subsidiary. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and principal and interest on our outstanding debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay us. For example, Idaho law limits a bank’s ability to pay dividends subject to surplus reserve requirements. In addition, as noted above, we have recently entered into an informal agreement with our regulators that prohibits the payment of dividends from the Bank to the Company without prior approval. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. Limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiary could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on common or preferred stock. Additionally, if our subsidiary’s earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common and preferred shareholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. In this regard, we have recently suspended payments on our trust preferred securities and Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, (the “Preferred Stock”). In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Preferred Stock for a total of at least six quarterly dividend periods (whether or not consecutive), the U.S. Treasury will have the right to appoint two directors to our board of directors until all accrued but unpaid 41 Table of Contents dividends have been paid. If we do not make payments on our trust preferred securities for over 20 consecutive quarters, we could be in default under those securities. A continued tightening of credit markets and liquidity risk could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A continued tightening of the credit markets or any inability to obtain adequate funds for continued loan growth at an acceptable cost could negatively affect our asset growth and liquidity position and, therefore, our earnings capability. In addition to core deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, the Bank also relies on alternative funding sources including unsecured borrowing lines with correspondent banks, national certificates of deposit and borrowing lines with the Federal Home Loan Bank and the Federal Reserve Bank, public time certificates of deposits and out of area and brokered time certificates of deposit. Our ability to access these sources could be impaired by deterioration in our financial condition as well as factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations for the financial services industry or serious dislocation in the general credit markets. In the event such disruption should occur, our ability to access these sources could be negatively affected, both as to price and availability, which would limit, and/or potentially raise the cost of, the funds available to the Company. The FDIC has increased insurance premiums and imposed special assessments to rebuild and maintain the federal deposit insurance fund, and any additional future premium increases or special assessments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The FDIC adopted a final rule revising its risk-based assessment system, effective April 1, 2009. The changes to the assessment system involve adjustments to the risk-based calculation of an institution’s unsecured debt, secured liabilities and brokered deposits. The revisions effectively result in a range of possible assessments under the risk-based system of 7.0 to 77.5 basis points. The potential increase in FDIC insurance premiums will add to our cost of operations and could have a significant impact on the Company. The FDIC also has recently required insured institutions to prepay estimated quarterly risk-based deposit insurance assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, and increased the regular assessment rate by three basis points effective January 1, 2011, as a means of replenishing the deposit insurance fund. Intermountain’s prepayment of $7.0 million was collected on December 30, 2009, and is being accounted for as a prepaid expense amortized over the prepayment period. The FDIC also recently imposed a special deposit insurance assessment of five basis points on all insured institutions. This emergency assessment was calculated based on the insured institution’s assets at June 30, 2009, and collected on September 30, 2009. Based on our June 30, 2009 assets subject to the FDIC assessment, the assessment was $475,000. The special assessment is in addition to the regular quarterly risk-based assessment. The deposit insurance fund may suffer losses in the future due to additional bank failures. There can be no assurance that there will not be additional significant deposit insurance premium increases, special assessments or prepayments in order to restore the insurance fund’s reserve ratio. Any significant premium increases or special assessments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If the goodwill recorded in connection with acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have an adverse impact on earnings and capital. Our estimates of the fair value of our goodwill may change as a result of changes in our business or other factors. As a result of new estimates, we may determine that an impairment charge for the decline in the value of goodwill is necessary. Estimates of fair value are based on a complex model using, among other things, cash flows and company comparison. If our estimates of future cash flows or other components of our fair value calculations are inaccurate, the fair value of goodwill reflected in our financial statements could be inaccurate and we could be required to take impairment charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 42 Table of Contents We may be required, in the future, to recognize impairment with respect to investment securities, including the FHLB stock we hold. Our securities portfolio contains whole loan private mortgage-backed securities and currently includes securities with unrecognized losses. The recent national downturn in real estate markets and elevated mortgage delinquency and foreclosure rates have increased credit losses in the portfolio of loans underlying these securities and resulted in substantial discounts in their market values. While these trends appear to have stabilized, any further deterioration in the loans underlying these securities and resulting market discounts could lead to other-than-temporary impairment in the value of these investments. We evaluate the securities portfolio for any other-than-temporary impairment each reporting period, as required by generally accepted accounting principles, and as of December 31, 2009, one security had been determined to be other than temporarily impaired, with the impairment totaling $1.7 million. Of this $1.7 million, $0.5 million was recognized as a credit loss through the Company’s income statement for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, and the remaining $1.2 million was reported as part of the Company’s other comprehensive income (loss) on the balance sheet. There can be no assurance that future evaluations of the securities portfolio will not require us to recognize additional impairment charges with respect to these and other holdings. In addition, as a condition to membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle (“FHLB”), we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB. At December 31, 2009, we had stock in the FHLB of Seattle totaling $2.3 million. The FHLB stock held by us is carried at cost and is subject to recoverability testing under applicable accounting standards. The FHLB has discontinued the repurchase of its stock and discontinued the distribution of dividends. As of December 31, 2009, we did not recognize an impairment charge related to our FHLB stock holdings. There can be no assurance, however, that future negative changes to the financial condition of the FHLB may not require us to recognize an impairment charge with respect to such holdings. Our ability to access markets for funding and acquire and retain customers could be adversely affected by the deterioration of other financial institutions or if the financial service industry’s reputation is damaged further. The financial services industry continues to be featured in negative reports about the global and national credit crisis and the resulting stabilization legislation enacted by the U.S. federal government. These reports can be damaging to the industry’s image and potentially erode consumer confidence in insured financial institutions, such as our banking subsidiary. In addition, our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and financial condition of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, correspondent, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry in general, could lead to market-wide liquidity problems, losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We could experience material changes in the level of deposits as a direct or indirect result of other banks’ difficulties or failure, which could require us to increase capital levels. Recent levels of market volatility were unprecedented and we cannot predict whether they will return. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for over two years, at times reaching unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain companies without regard to those companies’ underlying financial strength. If similar levels of market disruption and volatility return, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we cannot predict the effects of recent and pending federal legislation. As discussed further in the section “Supervision and Regulation”, we are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. In addition, as a publicly traded company, we 43 Table of Contents are subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any change in applicable regulations or federal, state or local legislation, or in policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement, income tax laws and accounting principles, could have a substantial impact on us and our operations. Changes in laws and regulations may also increase our expenses by imposing additional fees or taxes or restrictions on our operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to appropriately comply with any such laws, regulations or principles could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, or damage to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In that regard, proposals for legislation restructuring the regulation of the financial services industry are currently under consideration. Adoption of such proposals could, among other things, increase the overall costs of regulatory compliance. Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws or regulations by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. Recently, these powers have been utilized more frequently due to the serious national, regional and local economic conditions we are facing. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board. Numerous actions have been taken by the Federal Reserve, the U.S. Congress, the U.S. Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the liquidity and credit crisis. In addition, the Secretary of the Treasury has proposed fundamental changes to the regulation of financial institutions. We cannot predict the actual effects of proposed regulatory reform measures and various governmental, regulatory, monetary and fiscal initiatives which have been and may be enacted on the financial markets generally, or on the Company and on the Bank specifically. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock. Fluctuating interest rates could adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest margin, and, in turn, our profitability. We manage our interest rate risk within established guidelines and generally seek an asset and liability structure that insulates net interest income from large deviations attributable to changes in market rates. However, our interest rate risk management practices may not be effective in a highly volatile rate environment. Fluctuations in interest rates on loans could adversely affect our business. Significant increases in market interest rates on loans, or the perception that an increase may occur, could adversely affect both our ability to originate new loans and our ability to grow. Conversely, decreases in interest rates could result in an acceleration of loan prepayments. An increase in market interest rates could also adversely affect the ability of our floating-rate borrowers to meet their higher payment obligations. If this occurred, it could cause an increase in nonperforming assets and charge offs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services. The banking and financial services businesses in our market area are highly competitive and increased competition may adversely impact the level of our loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete 44 Table of Contents successfully against current and future competitors. These competitors include national banks, foreign banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain loan and deposit customers and a range in quality of products and services provided, including new technology driven products and services. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to continue our loan growth and level of deposits. We may not be able to successfully implement our internal growth strategy. We have pursued and intend to continue to pursue an internal growth strategy, the success of which will depend primarily on generating an increasing level of loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels and terms without proportionate increases in non-interest expenses. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our internal growth strategy. Furthermore, the success of our growth strategy will depend on maintaining sufficient regulatory capital levels and on favorable economic conditions in our market areas. Certain built-in losses could be limited if we experience an ownership change, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Certain of our assets, such as loans, may have built-in losses to the extent the basis of such assets exceeds fair market value. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) may limit the benefit of these built-in losses that exist at the time of an “ownership change.” A Section 382 “ownership change” occurs if a shareholder or a group of shareholders, who are deemed to own at least 5% of our common stock, increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. If an “ownership change” occurs, Section 382 would impose an annual limit on the amount of recognized built-in losses we can use to reduce our taxable income equal to the product of the total value of our outstanding equity immediately prior to the “ownership change” and the federal long-term tax-exempt interest rate in effect for the month of the “ownership change.” A number of special rules apply to calculating this limit. The limitations contained in Section 382 apply for a five-year period beginning on the date of the “ownership change” and any recognized built-in losses that are limited by Section 382 may be carried forward and reduce our future taxable income for up to 20 years, after which they expire. If an “ownership change” were to occur due to the issuance and sale of our securities, the annual limit of Section 382 could defer our ability to use some, or all, of the built-in losses to offset taxable income. Unexpected losses or our inability to successfully implement our tax planning strategies in future reporting periods may require us to establish a valuation allowance against our deferred income tax assets. We evaluate our deferred income tax assets for recoverability based on all available evidence. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws, our ability to successfully implement tax planning strategies, or variances between our future projected operating performance and our actual results. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred income tax assets if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred income tax assets will not be realized. In determining the more-likely-than-not criterion, we evaluate all positive and negative available evidence as of the end of each reporting period. Future adjustments to the deferred income tax asset valuation allowance, if any, will be determined based upon changes in the expected realization of the net deferred income tax assets. The realization of the deferred income tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carry back or carry forward periods under the tax law. Net operating loss carryforwards, if any, may be limited should a stock offering or sale of securities cause a change in control as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 382. In addition, as discussed above, net unrealized built-in losses, as defined in IRC Section 382 may be limited. In addition, risk based capital rules require a regulatory calculation evaluating the Company’s deferred income tax asset balance for realization against estimated pre-tax future income and net operating loss carry backs. Under the rules of this calculation and due to 45 Table of Contents significant estimates utilized in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that we will be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in future reporting periods that would materially reduce our risk based capital ratios. Such a charge could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and capital position. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be very difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. The Preferred Stock diminishes the net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per common share. We have issued $27 million of Preferred Stock to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) Capital Purchase Program. See “BUSINESS — Supervision and Regulation — Troubled Asset Relief Program.” The dividends accrued on the Preferred Stock reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The Preferred Stock is cumulative, which means that any dividends not declared or paid will accumulate and will be payable when the payment of dividends is resumed. We have deferred the payment of quarterly dividends on the Preferred Stock, beginning in December 2009. The dividend rate on the Preferred Stock will increase from 5% to 9% per annum five years after its original issuance if not earlier redeemed. If we are unable to redeem the Preferred Stock prior to the date of this increase, the cost of capital to us will increase substantially. Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the Preferred Stock annual dividend rate could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and could also adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our common shares. Shares of Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. Finally, the terms of the Preferred Stock allow the U.S. Treasury to impose additional restrictions, including those on dividends and including unilateral amendments required to comply with changes in applicable federal law. Under the terms of the Preferred Stock, our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares is limited. Specifically, we are unable to declare dividend payments on common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares if we are in arrears on the dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. As noted above, we have deferred the payment of dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock and we are therefore currently restricted from paying dividends on our common stock. Further, we are not permitted to increase dividends on our common stock above the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per share declared prior to October 14, 2008 (which was zero) without the U.S. Treasury’s approval until the third anniversary of the investment unless all of the Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred. Holders of the Preferred Stock have certain voting rights that may adversely affect our common shareholders, and the holders of the Preferred Stock may have interests different from our common shareholders. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Preferred Stock for a total of at least six quarterly dividend periods (whether or not consecutive), the U.S. Treasury will have the right to appoint two directors to our board of directors until all accrued but unpaid dividends have been paid. In order to conserve the liquid assets of the Company, our board of directors has approved the deferral of the regular quarterly cash dividend on the Preferred Stock, beginning in December 2009. Otherwise, except as required by law, holders of the Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. So long as shares of Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or our Articles of Incorporation, the vote or consent of holders of at least 662/3% of the shares of Preferred Stock outstanding is required for: • any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the Preferred Stock; • any amendments to the rights of the Preferred Stock so as to adversely effect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of the Preferred Stock; or 46 Table of Contents • consummation of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the shares of Preferred Stock remain outstanding, or if we are not the surviving entity in such transaction, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity and the shares of Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities have the rights, preferences, privileges and voting power of the Preferred Stock. The holders of the Preferred Stock, including the U.S. Treasury, may have different interests from the holders of our common stock, and could vote to block the foregoing transactions, even when considered desirable by, or in the best interests of, the holders of our common stock. Because of our participation in TARP, we are subject to restrictions on compensation paid to our executives. Pursuant to the terms of the TARP Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to regulations on compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the U.S. Treasury holds our Series A Preferred Stock. These regulations require us to adopt and follow certain procedures and to restrict the compensation we can pay to key employees. Key impacts of the regulations on us include, among other things: • ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of Intermountain; • a prohibition on cash incentive bonuses to our five most highly-compensated employees, subject to limited exceptions; • a prohibition on equity compensation awards to our five most highly-compensated employees other than long-term restricted stock that cannot be sold, other than to pay related taxes, until Treasury no longer holds the Series A Preferred Stock; • a prohibition on any severance or change-in-control payments to our senior executive officers and next five most highly-compensated employees; • a required recovery or “clawback” of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive officer or any of the next twenty most highly compensated employees based on financial or other performance criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; and • an agreement not to deduct for tax purposes annual compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive officer. The combined effect of these restrictions may make it more difficult to attract and retain key executives and employees, and the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation may increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods. Because of our participation in TARP, we are subject to restrictions on our ability to repurchase our shares. Because of our participation in TARP, our ability to repurchase our shares is restricted. The U.S. Treasury’s consent generally is required for us to make any stock repurchase until the third anniversary of the investment by the U.S. Treasury unless all of the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred. Further, common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if we are in arrears on the Series A Preferred Stock dividends. As noted above, we have deferred dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock and we are therefore currently restricted from repurchasing our shares. Future acquisitions and expansion activities may disrupt our business and adversely affect our operating results. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we cannot ensure that we will be able to adequately or profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks, branches or other assets, as well as other expansion activities, involve various risks including the risks of incorrectly assessing the credit quality of acquired assets, encountering greater than expected costs of incorporating 47 Table of Contents acquired banks or branches into our company, and being unable to profitably deploy funds acquired in an acquisition. We may not be able to replace key members of management or attract and retain qualified relationship managers in the future. We depend on the services of existing management to carry out our business and investment strategies. As we expand, we will need to continue to attract and retain senior management and other qualified staff. In particular, because we plan to continue to expand our locations, products and services, we will need to continue to attract and retain qualified commercial banking personnel and investment advisors. Competition for such personnel is significant in our geographic market areas. The loss of the services of any management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market price of our stock can be volatile. Our stock price is not traded at a consistent volume and can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, including actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results, recommendations by securities analysts and news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. Other factors include new technology used or services offered by our competitors, operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us, and changes in government regulations. We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal risk and compliance risk, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. If personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that our (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability of us to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. 48 Table of Contents Certain provisions in our Articles of Incorporation could make a third party acquisition of us difficult. Our Articles of Incorporation contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us (even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders) and for holders of our common stock to receive any related takeover premium for their common stock. These provisions include: • certain non-monetary factors that the board of directors may consider when evaluating a takeover offer: • a requirement that any plan of merger or share exchange that would result in a change in control be approved by the affirmative vote of not less than 662/3% of the shares entitled to vote (a level in excess of the requirement that would otherwise be imposed by Idaho law); and • division of the board of directors into three classes serving a staggered term of office, with one class of directors elected each year for a three-year term. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 