Risk Factors" and other cautionary statements included herein. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K report to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations. There can be no assurance that other factors will not affect the accuracy of these forward-looking statements or that our actual results will not differ materially from the results anticipated in such forward-looking statements. While it is impossible to identify all such factors, factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those estimated by us include, but are not limited to, those factors or conditions described under "Risk factors," and the following: • our high degree of leverage and significant debt service obligations; • restrictions under the indenture governing the notes and our senior credit facilities; • the competitive nature of our industry; • changes in interest rates, and general economic, home repair and remodeling, and new home construction market conditions; • changes in the price and availability of raw materials; and • changes in our relationships with our significant customers. PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Company Overview We are a leading manufacturer of residential exterior building products in North America. We offer a comprehensive product line of vinyl siding and skirting, vinyl windows and doors, and vinyl and composite fencing, railing and decking that serves both the home repair and remodeling and new home construction sectors in all 50 states and Western Canada. Vinyl building products have the leading share of sales by volume in siding and windows, and the fastest growing share of sales by volume in fencing in the U.S. We also manufacture vinyl and aluminum soffit and siding accessories, aluminum trim coil, wood and aluminum windows and steel and fiberglass doors, enabling us to bundle complementary and color-matched products and accessories with our core vinyl products. We believe our broad product offering and geographically diverse manufacturing base allow us to better serve our customers and provide us with a competitive advantage over other vinyl building products suppliers. We have two reportable segments: (i) siding, fencing, railing and decking, and (ii) windows and doors. Additional information concerning our business is set forth in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of Part II of this report. Unless the context indicates or requires otherwise, (i) the term “Ply Gem Holdings” refers to Ply Gem Holdings, Inc.; (ii) the term “Ply Gem Industries” refers to Ply Gem Industries, Inc., our principal operating subsidiary; and (iii) the terms "we," "our," "ours," "us", “Ply Gem”, and the "Company" refer collectively to Ply Gem Holdings and its subsidiaries. The use of these terms is not intended to imply that Ply Gem Holdings and Ply Gem Industries are not separate and distinct legal entities. 1 History Ply Gem Holdings was incorporated on January 23, 2004 for the purpose of acquiring Ply Gem Industries from Nortek, Inc. (“Nortek”) (the “Ply Gem Acquisition”). Nortek was at the time a wholly-owned subsidiary of Nortek Holdings, Inc. (“Nortek Holdings”). The Ply Gem Acquisition was completed on February 12, 2004, when Nortek sold Ply Gem Industries to Ply Gem Holdings, pursuant to the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement among Ply Gem Investment Holdings, Inc., Nortek and WDS LLC, dated as of December 19, 2003, as amended. Prior to February 12, 2004, Ply Gem Holdings had no operations and Ply Gem Industries was wholly owned by a subsidiary of WDS LLC, which was a wholly owned subsidiary of Nortek. Ply Gem Holdings, a Delaware corporation, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ply Gem Investment Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation controlled by an affiliate of Caxton-Iseman Capital, Inc. and its affiliates. Prior to the Ply Gem Acquisition, Ply Gem Industries was known as the Windows, Doors and Siding division of Nortek. On August 27, 2004 Ply Gem Industries acquired all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of MWM Holding, Inc. (“MWM Holding”), in accordance with the Stock Purchase Agreement entered into among Ply Gem Industries, MWM Holding, and the selling stockholders, dated as of July 23, 2004 (the “MW Acquisition”). The accompanying financial statements include the operating results of MWM Holding from August 27, 2004 through December 31, 2006. In connection with MW Acquisition, the Ply Gem Investment Holdings, Inc. phantom stock plan was modified to accelerate the vesting term as defined in the related grants. MWM Holding, a Delaware corporation, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ply Gem Industries. MWM Holding is the sole owner of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of MW Manufacturers, Inc. (“MW”). Prior to the MW Acquisition, MWM Holding was owned by Investcorp SA (“Investcorp”) and its affiliates and members of MW management. On February 24, 2006 in connection with the acquisition (the “Alenco Acquisition”) of AWC Holding Company (“AWC”, and together with its subsidiaries, “Alenco”) a new holding company, Ply Gem Prime Holdings, Inc., was formed pursuant to a merger involving Ply Gem Investment Holdings, Inc. As a result, Ply Gem Prime Holdings, Inc. became the sole shareholder of Ply Gem Investment Holdings, Inc., each outstanding share of capital stock of Ply Gem Investment Holdings, Inc. was converted into a share of a corresponding class of shares of the capital stock of Ply Gem Prime Holdings, Inc. and Ply Gem Prime Holdings, Inc. assumed Ply Gem Investment Holdings, Inc.’s obligations under the Ply Gem Investment Holdings 2004 Stock Option Plan. In connection therewith, each outstanding stock option and phantom unit of Ply Gem Investment Holdings, Inc. was converted on a 1:1 basis into a stock option and phantom unit of Ply Gem Prime Holdings, Inc. On February 24, 2006, Ply Gem completed the Alenco Acquisition in accordance with a securities purchase agreement entered into among Ply Gem, all of the direct and indirect stockholders, warrant holders and stock option holders of AWC and FNL Management Corp., an Ohio corporation, as their representative on February 6, 2006 (the “Securities Purchase Agreement”). Pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, Ply Gem purchased all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock, warrants to purchase shares of common stock and options to purchase shares of common stock of AWC (other than certain shares of common stock of AWC held by certain members of the senior management of Alenco (the “Rollover Shares”) that were contributed separately to Ply Gem Prime Holdings, Inc., the new parent company of Ply Gem Investment Holdings, Inc., in exchange for shares of capital stock of Ply Gem Prime Holdings, Inc.). Immediately following the completion of the Alenco Acquisition, AWC became a wholly owned subsidiary of Ply Gem. The purchase price paid by Ply Gem was approximately $89.4 million in cash, which included $4.0 million in cash delivered by Ply Gem to an escrow agent to be held in escrow as security for the sellers’ indemnification and other obligations under the Securities Purchase Agreement, plus the repayment of approximately $31.3 million of outstanding indebtedness of Alenco. In connection with the Alenco Acquisition, certain members of Alenco management invested approximately $8.1 million in the capital stock of Ply Gem Prime Holdings, Inc. Alenco is a leading vertically integrated manufacturer of aluminum and vinyl windows and doors, headquartered in Bryan, Texas. The Alenco Acquisition directly supports the Company’s national window strategy. Following the Acquisition, Alenco became part of our Windows and Doors Segment. On October 31, 2006, Ply Gem completed the acquisition (the “AHE Acquisition”) of Alcoa Home Exteriors, Inc.(“AHE”) in accordance with a stock purchase agreement entered into among Ply Gem, Alcoa Securities Corporation and Alcoa Inc. on September 22, 2006. Pursuant to such stock purchase agreement, Ply Gem purchased all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of AHE so that, immediately following the completion of such purchase, AHE became a wholly owned subsidiary of Ply Gem. The purchase price paid by Ply Gem was approximately $305.0 million in cash. The AHE Acquisition did not include an additional investment by management. 2 AHE is a leading manufacturer of vinyl siding, aluminum siding, injection molded shutters and vinyl, aluminum and injection molded accessories. As a result of the AHE Acquisition, AHE became part of our Siding, Fencing, Railing and Decking Segment and operates under common leadership with our existing Siding business. Access to Company Information The Company maintains a website with the address www.plygem.com. The Company is not including the information contained on the Company’s website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company makes available through its website its Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the SEC. Business Strategy † Continued Market Share Gains. We intend to increase our market share both in our siding, fencing, railing and decking products in the U.S. and in our window and door products by expanding beyond our current core regional markets to serve customers across the U.S. In the future we may support our national window supplier strategy through a combination of strategic acquisitions and/or greenfield operations. Additionally, our continued investments in product innovation and quality coupled with strong customer service further enhance our ability to capture market share in each of our markets. Furthermore, we believe there is substantial opportunity across our product families to cross-sell and bundle products to further leverage our channel partners and exclusive industry relationships. We have organized our U.S. new construction window businesses under one leadership team to enhance our strategic focus on this important end customer market. We have begun leveraging MW's strong relationships in its core geographic markets to increase sales of all of our products, including taking advantage of cross-selling opportunities to our customers and MW's customers. In the future, we also expect to leverage AHE’s strong customer relationships to increase sales of all our products by taking advantage of cross-selling opportunities. With our extensive manufacturing capabilities, product breadth and national distribution capabilities, we believe we can provide our customers with a cost-effective, single source from which to purchase their residential exterior building product needs. † Expand Brand Coverage and Product Innovation. We intend to leverage the reputation of our brands for innovation and quality to fill in our product offerings and price points. In addition, we plan to maximize the value of our new product innovations and technologies by deploying best practices and manufacturing techniques across our product categories. For example, we believe our recent innovations and expertise in manufacturing composite materials for railing products have favorably positioned our siding and accessories products as the siding sector prepares for the introduction of composite materials. We currently employ 44 research and development professionals dedicated to new product development, reformulation, product redesign and other manufacturing and product improvements. † Further Improve Operating Efficiencies. While we have significantly improved our vinyl siding manufacturing cost structure over the last several years, we believe that there are further opportunities for improvement. We have expanded our efforts to vertically integrate certain raw materials including, PVC compound, used in window lineal production, as well as expanding our in-house window lineal production. In addition, we intend to introduce similar manufacturing improvements and best practices in our other product categories, including, for example, expansion of our virtual plant strategy to both our AHE vinyl siding facilities and our window manufacturing facilities. We also plan to optimize product development, sales and marketing, materials procurement, operations and administrative functions across all of our product categories. One significant opportunity involves leveraging total raw material expenditures to obtain volume discounts and minimize costs. In addition, the integration of our sales and marketing efforts across our product categories provides an ongoing opportunity to significantly improve sector penetration. 3 Industry Overview Demand for exterior building products, including siding, fencing, railing and decking, and windows and doors, is primarily driven by repair and remodeling of existing homes and construction of new homes, which are affected by changes in national and local economic and demographic conditions, employment levels, availability of financing, interest rates, consumer confidence and other factors. Home Repair and Remodeling. Since the early 1990’s, demand for home repair and remodeling has remained robust as a result of strong economic growth, low interest rates and favorable demographic trends. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, expenditures for maintenance, repairs, and improvements increased from $130.6 billion in 1995 to $142.9 billion in 1999 and $198.5 billion in 2004, representing a five and ten-year compound annual growth rate of 1.8% and 4.3%, respectively. Leading drivers of home repair and remodeling expenditures include the age and size of the housing stock, the rate of existing home sales, home size and home ownership rates. According to the Census Bureau, the median age of the U.S. housing stock increased to approximately 32 years in 2003, up 28% from 25 years in 1990. Additionally, over the past fifteen years, the size of a typical new home has increased, with the current average at over 2,400 square feet. Home ownership has also been rising steadily over the past decade from 64.4% in 1992 to 69% in 2006. New Home Construction. New home construction has experienced strong growth since the early 1990s. Between 1999 and 2005, housing starts increased at a compound annual growth rate of 4.2%. In 2006, new housing starts declined from 2005’s level by 12.3%, according to the National Association of Home Builders, and are expected to decline further in 2007 by approximately 16.1% with an 11.6% recovery expected in 2008. The long-term favorable outlook for new home construction continues to be supported by a favorable interest rate environment and strong demographic trends, as increasing immigration drives demand for starter homes, and maturing baby boomers seek second homes and trade-up properties. According to the Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University, total new home construction between 2005 and 2015 is expected to reach 18.5-19.5 million units, as compared to 16.4 million units added in the 1990s. Although long-term indicators for new home construction remain favorable, the National Association of Home Builder’s (NAHB) is projecting housing starts to decline in 2007 from 2006 levels as mentioned above. Description of Business Financial information about our segments is included in the Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements. Siding, Fencing, Railing and Decking Segment Products In our siding, fencing, railing and decking segment, our principal products include vinyl siding and skirting, vinyl and aluminum soffit, aluminum trim coil, J-channels, wide crown molding, window and door trim, F-channels, H-molds, fascia, undersill trims, outside/inside corner posts, rain removal systems and injection molded designer accents such as shakes, shingles, scallops, shutters, vents and mounts. We sell our siding and accessories under our Variform, Napco, Alcoa Home Exteriors, Mastic and Cellwood brand names and under the Georgia-Pacific brand name through a private label program. We also sell our Providence line of vinyl siding and accessories to Lowe’s under our Durabuilt private label brand name. Our vinyl and vinyl-composite fencing, railing and decking products are sold under our Kroy brand name and under the Assurance and Kroy Express brand names. A summary of our product lines is presented below according to price point: 4 Specialty/Super Premium · Nostalgia Series Shakes and Scallops (Variform) · Victoria Harbor (Variform) · Cedar Select Shakes and Scallops (Napco) · American “76” Collection (Napco) · Structure EPC (Alcoa Home Exteriors) · Cedar Discovery (Mastic) · Cedar Dimensions (Cellwood) · Rough Sawn Cedar (Georgia-Pacific) · New World Scallops (Georgia-Pacific) · Somerset (Georgia-Pacific) · Board and Batten (Variform, Napco, Alcoa Home Exteriors, Cellwood, and Georgia-Pacific) · Kroy composite railing systems (Kroy) Premium · Timber Oak (Variform) · Varigrain Preferred (Variform) · American Splendor (Napco) · Grand Sierra (Alcoa Home Exteriors) · Liberty Elite (Alcoa Home Exteriors) · Charleston Beaded Collection (Alcoa Home Exteriors) · Quest3 Series (Mastic) · T-lok Barkwood (Mastic) · Dimensions (Cellwood) · Dimensions Beaded (Cellwood) · Chatham Ridge (Georgia-Pacific) · Cedar Lane (Georgia-Pacific) · Assurance Outdoor Solutions (Kroy) · Kroy Express (Kroy) Standard · Camden Pointe (Variform) · Nottingham (Variform) · Ashton Heights (Variform) · American Herald (Napco) · American Tradition (Napco) · Meadowbrook (Alcoa Home Exteriors) · Silhouette Classic (Alcoa Home Exteriors) · Carvedwood2 Series (Mastic) · Progressions (Cellwood) · Heritage Hill (Georgia-Pacific) · Forest Ridge (Georgia-Pacific) · Shadow Ridge (Georgia-Pacific) · Castle Ridge (Georgia-Pacific) · Kroy Fence and Railing Products (Kroy) Economy · Contractor’s Choice (Variform) · American Comfort (Napco) · Providence (Napco) · Mill Creek (Alcoa Home Exteriors) · Trade-Mark cg (Alcoa Home Exteriors) · Brentwood (Mastic) · Evolutions (Cellwood) · Vision Pro (Georgia-Pacific) Manufactured Housing · Parkside (Georgia-Pacific) · Oakside (Georgia-Pacific) The breadth of our product lines and our multiple brand and price point strategy enable us to target all areas of the sectors, including multiple distribution channels (wholesale, retail and manufactured housing) and end sectors (home repair and remodeling and new home construction), with minimal channel conflict. 5 Customers and Distribution We have a multi-channel distribution network that serves both the home repair and remodeling and new home construction sectors, which exhibit different, often counter-balancing, demand characteristics. In conjunction with our multiple brand and price point strategy, we believe our multi-channel distribution strategy enables us to increase our sales and sector penetration while minimizing channel conflict. We believe our strategy reduces our dependence on any one channel, which provides us with a greater ability to sustain our financial performance through economic fluctuations. We sell our siding and accessories to specialty distributors (one-step distribution) and to wholesale distributors (two-step distribution). Our specialty distributors sell directly to remodeling contractors and builders. Our wholesale distributors sell to retail home centers and lumberyards who, in turn, sell to remodeling contractors, builders and consumers. In the specialty channel we have developed an extensive network of approximately 800 independent distributors, serving over 22,000 contractors and builders nationwide. We are exceptionally well-positioned in this channel as many of these distributors are both the largest and leading consolidators in the industry. In the wholesale channel we are the sole supplier of vinyl siding and accessories to BlueLinx (formerly a distribution operation of the Georgia-Pacific Corporation), one of the largest building products distributors in the U.S. Through BlueLinx and our BlueLinx dedicated sales force, our Georgia-Pacific private label vinyl siding products are sold at major retail home centers, lumberyards and manufactured housing manufacturers. A portion of our siding and accessories is also sold directly to Lowe’s Home Improvement Centers under our Durabuilt brand name. Our growing customer base of fencing, railing and decking consists of distributors, retail home centers and lumberyards. Our largest customer, BlueLinx, made up 34.6% of the net sales of our siding, fencing, railing and decking segment and 16.5% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2005, BlueLinx made up 40.6% of the net sales of our siding, fencing, railing and decking segment and 18.9% of our consolidated net sales Production and Facilities Vinyl siding, skirting, soffit and accessories are manufactured in our Kearney, Missouri, Martinsburg, West Virginia, Jasper, Tennessee, Denison, Texas, Stuarts Draft, Virginia, and Atlanta, Georgia facilities, while all metal products are produced in our Valencia, Pennsylvania and Sidney, Ohio facilities. All injection molded products such as shakes, shingles, scallops, shutters, vents and mounts are either manufactured in our Gaffney, South Carolina facility or purchased from outside suppliers. In February 2007, the Company announced that the Atlanta, Georgia facility would be closed in the second quarter of 2007, due to excess production capacity. The five remaining vinyl siding plants will have the necessary capacity to support our planned sales growth in vinyl siding in 2007. The metal plants have sufficient capacity to support planned levels of sales growth for the foreseeable future. Our fencing, railing and decking products are currently manufactured at our York, Nebraska and Fair Bluff, North Carolina facilities. The fencing, railing and decking plants have sufficient capacity to support our planned sales growth for the foreseeable future. We expect our capital expenditures for our siding, fencing, railing and decking segment in the near future to remain consistent with our expenditures in past years. Raw Materials and Suppliers PVC resin and aluminum are major components in the production of our siding, fencing, railing and decking products and changes in PVC resin and aluminum prices have a direct impact on our cost of products sold. Historically, we have been able to pass on the price increases to our customers. The results of operations for individual quarters can be negatively impacted by a delay between the time of raw material cost increases and price increases that we implement in our products, or conversely can be positively impacted by a delay between the time of a raw material price decrease and competitive pricing moves that we implement accordingly. Competition We compete with other national and regional manufacturers of vinyl siding, fencing, railing and decking products. We believe we are one of the largest manufacturers of vinyl siding in North America, alongside CertainTeed, Owens Corning, and Alside. We believe that we account for approximately 29% of the U.S. vinyl siding market. Significant growth in vinyl fencing, railing and decking has attracted many new entrants, and the sector today is very fragmented. Our fencing, railing and decking competitors include U.S. Fence, Homeland, Westech, Bufftech, Outdoor Technologies, Royal, Outdoor Fiberon and Trex. We generally compete on product quality, breadth of product offering, sales and service support. In addition to competition from other vinyl siding, fencing, railing and decking products, our products face competition from alternative materials: wood, metal, fiber cement and masonry siding. Increases in competition from other vinyl exterior building products manufacturers and alternative building materials could cause us to lose customers and lead to decreases in net sales. 6 Seasonality Markets for our products are seasonal and can be affected by inclement weather conditions. Historically, our business has experienced increased sales in the second and third quarters of the year due to increased construction during those periods. Because a portion of our overhead and expenses are fixed throughout the year, our operating profits tend to be lower in the first and fourth quarter. Inclement weather conditions can affect the timing of when our products are applied or installed, causing delayed profit margins when such conditions exist. We generally carry increased working capital during the first half of a fiscal year to support those months where customer demand exceeds production capacity. We believe that this is typical within the industry. Backlog Our siding, fencing, railing, and decking segment had a backlog of approximately $3.9 million, excluding AHE, at December 31, 2006, and approximately $7.5 million at December 31, 2005. We expect to fill 100% of the orders during 2007. Windows and Doors Segment Products In our windows and doors segment, our principal products include vinyl, aluminum and wood windows and patio doors, as well as steel and fiberglass doors that serve both new home construction and the repair and remodeling sectors in the United States and Western Canada. Our windows and doors segment includes MW, Great Lakes Window, Inc. (“GLW” or Great Lakes Window), Alenco, and CWD Windows and Doors, Inc. (“CWD”) subsidiaries. We sell our windows and doors under our MW, Patriot, Twin Seal, Alenco, Builders View, Great Lakes, Ply Gem, Uniframe, Grandview, Seabrooke, Bayshore, Napco and CWD brand names. A summary of our product lines is presented below according to price point: Specialty/Super Premium · Uniframe (Great Lakes) Premium · Freedom (MW) · Ply Gem Lifestyles (Great Lakes) · Great Lakes Seabrooke (Great Lakes) · Grandview 4000 & 5000 (Great Lakes) · Napco 3500 (Great Lakes) · MW 1400 (Great Lakes) · Ambassador (CWD) · Regency (CWD) Standard · Jefferson (MW) · Classic (MW) · TwinSeal (MW) · Bayshore (Great Lakes) · Grandview 3000 (Great Lakes) · MW 1300 (Great Lakes) · Napco 2500 (Great Lakes) · Premier (CWD) · Diplomat (CWD) · Envoy (CWD) Economy · Consul (CWD) · Patriot (MW) · Alenco · Builders View (Alenco) The breadth of our product lines and our multiple brand and price point strategy enable us to target all areas of the sectors, including multiple distribution channels (wholesale, retail and builder direct) and end sectors (home repair and remodeling and new home construction), with minimal channel conflict. 7 Customers and Distribution We have a multi-channel distribution network that serves both the home repair and remodeling and new home construction sectors, which exhibit different, often counter-balancing, demand characteristics. In conjunction with our multiple brand and price point strategy, we believe our multi-channel distribution strategy enables us to increase our sales and sector penetration while minimizing channel conflict. We believe our strategy reduces our dependence on any one channel, which provides us with a greater ability to sustain our financial performance through economic fluctuations. Our domestic windows and doors product lines are sold for use in new home construction and in home repair and remodeling through a highly diversified customer base, which includes, for our U.S. new construction product lines, independent building material dealers, regional/national lumberyard chains, builders direct/OEMs, and retail home centers. Our U.S. new construction window group operates under the guidance of one leadership team and operates a network of vertically integrated production and distribution facilities located in Virginia, New Jersey, Mississippi, North Carolina, Georgia, Texas and Arizona. Our repair and remodeling windows products are primarily sold through dealers and distributors. Dealers typically market directly to homeowners or contractors in connection with remodeling requirements while distributors concentrate on local independent retailers. In Canada, sales of CWD product lines in the new construction market are predominantly made through direct sales to builders and contractors, while sales in the renovation market are made primarily through retail lumberyards. CWD products are distributed through eight distribution centers. Our three largest customers, NV Ryan, Builders FirstSource and 84 Lumber, represented 7.9%, 6.1% and 4.9% of the sales of our windows and doors segment in 2006, respectively. Production and Facilities Our windows and doors manufacturing facilities have benefited from our continued investment and commitment to product development and product quality combined with increasing integration of best practices across our product offerings. In addition, beginning in 2003, MW significantly lowered its manufacturing cost basis by expanding its existing in-house capacity to extrude vinyl lineals used in the production of windows. During 2003 and 2004 MW purchased six new lineal extruders which more than doubled its previous lineal production capacity. In 2005 and 2006 ten additional extruders were added to support organic growth and over 90% of the vinyl needs of GLW. For the newly acquired Alenco, five additional extruders are on order and by the third quarter of 2007, nearly 90% of Alenco’s vinyl needs will be produced in-house. Leveraging our PVC resin blending expertise, 2006 also saw the addition of a new PVC blend facility to the already successful lineal production facility. This successful venture not only delivered significant cost savings but also allowed us to further refine and improve our compound formulation and quality. From a capacity perspective, all of our facilities have the ability to gain capacity in a cost effective manner by expanding production shifts. Ongoing capital investments will focus upon new product development, expanding lineal production capacity, and equipment maintenance and improvement. Raw Materials and Suppliers PVC compound, wood and glass are major components in the production of our window and door products. Historically changes in PVC compound and wood prices have had the most significant impact on our material cost of products sold in our windows and doors segment. We are one of the largest consumers of PVC resin in North America and we continue to leverage our purchasing power on this key raw material. As mentioned above, the PVC resin compound that is used in window lineal production is now produced on site. The leveraging of our PVC resin buying power and the expansion of PVC resin compounding capabilities has begun to benefit all of our domestic window companies including MW, GLW and Alenco. MW, Great Lakes, and CWD have significantly consolidated glass purchases to take advantage of strategic sourcing savings opportunities. 8 Competition While 2006 saw some consolidation in the window industry, the vinyl windows and patio doors sector in the U.S. and Canada remains fragmented, comprised primarily of local and regional manufacturers. Our competitors include MI Home Products, Silverline Building Products (Andersen Windows), Simonton Windows (Fortune Brands), Milgard Manufacturing, Inc. (Masco Corp.) and Atrium. We generally compete on service, product performance, sales and support and our products are competitively priced. We also face competition from alternative materials, primarily wood. Seasonality Markets for our products are seasonal and can be affected by inclement weather conditions. Historically, our business has experienced increased sales in the second and third quarters of the year due to increased construction during those periods. Accordingly, our working capital is typically higher in the second and third quarters as well. Because much of our overhead and expense are fixed throughout the year, our operating profits tend to be lower in the first and fourth quarter. Inclement weather conditions can affect the timing of when our products are applied or installed, causing delayed profit margins when such conditions exist. Because we have successfully implemented lean manufacturing techniques and many of our windows and doors are made to order, inventories in our windows and doors segment do not change significantly with seasonal demand. Backlog Our windows and doors segment had a backlog of approximately $26.6 million at December 31, 2006, and approximately $17.6 million at December 31, 2005. We expect to fill 100% of the orders during 2007. Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters We are subject to Canadian and U.S. federal, state, provincial and local environmental laws and regulations that relate to the presence of hazardous materials, pollution and the protection of the environment, including those governing emissions to air, discharges to water, use, storage and transport of hazardous materials, storage, treatment and disposal of waste, remediation of contaminated sites, and protection of worker health and safety. From time to time, our facilities are subject to investigation by environmental regulators. We believe that our current operations are in substantial compliance with all applicable environmental laws and that we maintain all material permits required to operate our business. Based on available information, we do not believe that any known compliance obligations, claims, releases or investigations will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. However, there can be no guarantee that these or newly discovered matters or any inability to enforce available indemnification rights we have against Nortek under the stock purchase agreement governing the Ply Gem Acquisition and Alcan Aluminum Corporation (an indemnity we received when we purchased our York, Nebraska facility from Alcan Aluminum Corporation in 1998) will not result in material costs. Under the stock purchase agreement governing the MW Acquisition, the sellers agreed to indemnify us for the first $250,000 in costs of compliance with the New Jersey Industrial Site Recovery Act at an MW facility in Hammonton, New Jersey and for 75% of any such costs between $250,000 and $5.5 million. MW’s Rocky Mount, Virginia property is subject to an environmental investigation pursuant to the Virginia Voluntary Remediation Program, relating to contamination associated with an underground storage tank formerly located at the Rocky Mount, VA property. Liability for this investigation and the subject contamination has been previously assumed by U.S. Industries, Inc., pursuant to its indemnity obligation under the Stock Purchase Agreement dated August 11, 1995, whereby U.S.Industries, Inc. sold the stock of MW to Fenway Partners. As the successor in interest of Fenway Partners, we are similary indemnified by U.S. Industries, Inc., which is currently working with the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality in its continuing efforts under the Voluntary Remediation Program. 9 We voluntarily comply with the Vinyl Siding Institute (“VSI”) Certification Program with respect to our vinyl siding and accessories. Prior to 1998, there was no commonly-adopted industry certification process for vinyl siding products. Uniform minimum standards were available, but uniform compliance was not assured. In 1998, the VSI, under the leadership of our former President and Chief Executive Officer, Lee Meyer, at that time the Chairman of the VSI, instituted a new industry-wide program to assure compliance with minimum product standards. John Wayne, who is the President of our vinyl siding group, is the current Chairman of the VSI. All major vinyl siding manufacturers, representing over 95% of all products, now comply with these guidelines. Under the VSI Certification Program, third party verification and certification, provided by Architectural Testing, Inc., (“ATI”) is used to ensure uniform compliance with the minimum standards set by the American Society for Testing and Materials, (“ASTM”). Those products compliant with ASTM specifications for vinyl siding will perform satisfactorily in virtually any environment. ATI initially inspects all qualifying products for compliance and inspects plants to assure effective quality control programs. In addition, compliance with advertised specifications is verified. All manufacturing plants are inspected bi-annually during unannounced visits to monitor compliance. Upon certification, products are added to the official VSI list of certified products and are eligible to bear the official VSI certification logo. Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 6,300 full-time employees worldwide, of whom approximately 5,700 were in the United States and approximately 600 were in Canada. Employees at our Canadian plant, our Valencia, Pennsylvania plant, and our Alenco Windows plants are currently our only employees with whom we have a collective bargaining agreement. Approximately 5.0% of our total employees are represented by the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement with certain of our Canadian employees, that expires on December 31, 2007. Approximately 1.4% of our total employees are represented by the United Steelworkers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC, pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement with certain of our Valencia, PA employees, that expires on December 1, 2011. Approximately 5.9% of our total employees are represented by the International Chemical Workers Union Council, pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement with certain of our Alenco Windows employees, that expires on December 4, 2010. Financial Information about Geographic Areas All of the Company’s operations are located in the United States and Canada. Revenue from external customers for the year 2006 consists of: · $981.2 million from United States customers · $68.3 million from Canadian customers · $5.0 million from all other foreign customers Revenue from external customers for the year 2005 consists of: · $775.8 million from United States customers · $58.2 million from Canadian customers · $4.9 million from all other foreign customers Revenue from external customers for the combined 2004 periods of January 1 to February 11, 2004 and January 23 to December 31, 2004 consists of: · $574.7 million from United States customers · $48.9 million from Canadian customers · $2.9 million from all other foreign customers At December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, long-lived assets totaled approximately $44.2 million, $43.6 million, and $51.4 million, respectively, in Canada and $1,253.6 million, $835.9 million, and $900.6 million, respectively, in the United States. We are exposed to risks inherent in any foreign operation, including foreign exchange rate fluctuations. 10 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Associated with Our Business The substantial level of our indebtedness may limit the cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business. We have substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $1,048.8 million of indebtedness outstanding and up to $67.6 million of additional borrowing capacity under the revolving portion of our senior credit facilities. Under the covenants in the indenture and its senior credit facilities, Ply Gem Industries could have incurred additional indebtedness of up to $44.0 million as of December 31, 2006. Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations on the senior subordinated notes; · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the senior credit facilities, exposing us to the risk of defaulting on our secured debt which could result in a foreclosure on our assets, which in turn would negatively affect our ability to operate as a going concern; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, such as capital expenditures, acquisitions and working capital; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; · expose us to fluctuations in the interest rate environment because the interest rates of our senior credit facilities are at variable rates; and · limit our ability to borrow additional funds. We expect to obtain the money necessary to pay our expenses, fund working capital and capital expenditures, and to pay the interest on the senior subordinated notes, senior credit facilities and other debt from cash flow from our operations and from Ply Gem Industries’ existing and available borrowings under its senior credit facilities. Our ability to meet our expenses thus depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the industry in which we operate and competitive pressures. Our cash flow may not be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt (including the senior subordinated notes) and to meet our other obligations. If we do not have enough cash flow, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt (including the senior subordinated notes), sell assets or borrow more money. We may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including the senior credit facilities and the indenture governing the notes, may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. The failure to generate sufficient cash flow or to achieve such alternatives could reduce the value of the senior subordinated notes and limit our ability to pay principal of and interest on the notes. The indenture for the senior subordinated notes and the senior credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. The indenture for the senior subordinated notes and the senior credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, sell assets, incur certain liens, enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, or merge or consolidate. In addition, the senior credit facilities require Ply Gem Industries to maintain specified financial ratios. These covenants may prevent us from financing our future operations or capital needs or pursuing available business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants or an inability to maintain the required financial ratios could result in a default under the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness. 11 We face competition from other vinyl exterior building products manufacturers and alternative building materials. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose customers and our sales could decline. We compete with other national and regional manufacturers of vinyl exterior building products. Some of these companies are larger and have greater financial resources than we do. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the industries in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. These competitors could take a greater share of sales and cause us to lose business from our customers. Additionally, our products face competition from alternative materials: wood, metal, fiber cement and masonry in siding, and wood in windows. An increase in competition from other vinyl exterior building products manufacturers and alternative building materials could cause us to lose our customers and lead to decreases in net sales. Downturns in the home repair and remodeling and new home construction sectors or the economy could lower the demand for, and pricing of, our products, which in turn could cause our net sales and net income to decrease. The home repair and remodeling and new home construction sectors may be significantly affected by changes in economic and other conditions such as gross domestic product levels, employment levels, demographic trends and consumer confidence. These factors can lower the demand for and pricing of our products. More specifically, for example, demand for home repair and remodeling products may be adversely affected by material increases in interest rates and the reduced availability of financing for home improvements. Any deterioration in these factors could cause our net sales and net income to decrease. Changes in the costs and availability of raw materials, especially PVC resin and aluminum, can decrease our profit margin by increasing our costs. Our principal raw materials, PVC resin and aluminum, have been subject to rapid price changes, particularly PVC resin in 2005 and 2004. While we have historically been able to substantially pass on significant PVC resin and aluminum cost increases through price increases to our customers, our results of operations for individual quarters can be and have been hurt by a delay between the time of PVC resin and aluminum cost increases and price increases in our products. While we expect that any significant future PVC resin and aluminum cost increases will be offset over time by price increases to our customers, we may not be able to pass on any future price increases. Because we depend on a core group of significant customers, our sales, cash flows from operations and results of operations may decline if our key customers reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 39.4% of our net sales in the year ended December 31, 2006. Our largest customer, BlueLinx, formerly a distribution operation of the Georgia-Pacific Corporation, distributes our vinyl siding and accessories through multiple channels within its building products distribution business, and accounted for approximately 16.5% of our 2006 net sales. We expect a small number of customers to continue to account for a substantial portion of our net sales for the foreseeable future. The loss of or a significant adverse change in our relationships with BlueLinx or any other major customer could cause a material decrease in our net sales. We expect our relationship with BlueLinx to continue. The loss of, or a reduction in orders from, any significant customers, losses arising from customers’ disputes regarding shipments, fees, merchandise condition or related matters, or our inability to collect accounts receivable from any major retail customer could cause a decrease in our net income and our cash flow. In addition, revenue from customers that have accounted for significant revenue in past periods, individually or as a group, may not continue, or if continued, may not reach or exceed historical levels in any period. Our business is seasonal and can be affected by inclement weather conditions which could affect the timing of the demand for our products and cause reduced profit margins when such conditions exist. Markets for our products are seasonal and can be affected by inclement weather conditions. Historically, our business has experienced increased sales in the second and third quarters of the year due to increased construction during those periods. Because much of our overhead and expense are fixed throughout the year, our operating profits tend to be lower in the first and fourth quarters. Inclement weather conditions can affect the timing of when our products are applied or installed, causing reduced profit margins when such conditions exist. 12 If we are unable to meet future capital requirements our product offering may become dated, our productivity may decrease and the quality of our products decline, which, in turn, could reduce our sales and profitability. We periodically make capital investments to, among other things, maintain and upgrade our facilities and enhance our production processes. As we grow our businesses, we may have to incur significant capital expenditures. If we do not have, or are unable to obtain adequate funds to make all necessary capital expenditures when required, or if the amount of future capital expenditures are materially in excess of our anticipated or current expenditures, our product offering may become dated, our productivity may decrease and the quality of our products may decline, which, in turn, could reduce our sales and profitability. Increases in the cost of labor, union organizing activity and work stoppages at our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers could delay or impede our production, reduce sales of our products and increase our costs. Our financial performance is affected by the availability of qualified personnel and the cost of labor. Currently, approximately 12.4% of our employees are represented by labor unions. In December 2005, the hourly employees at our CWD Windows and Doors production facility in Calgary, Alberta voted to be represented by the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America. The agreement was finalized in August of 2006 and will expire in December 2007. We are subject to the risk that strikes or other types of conflicts with personnel may arise or that we may become a subject of union organizing activity. Furthermore, some of our direct and indirect suppliers have unionized work forces. Strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by these suppliers could result in slowdowns or closures of facilities where components of our products are manufactured. Any interruption in the production or delivery of our products could reduce sales of our products and increase our costs. We may be subject to claims arising from the operations of our subsidiaries, including Ply Gem Industries, MW, Alenco and AHE, prior to our acquisitions. Our ability to seek indemnification from the former owners of our subsidiaries may be limited, in which case, we would be liable for these claims. We have acquired all of our subsidiaries in the last several years, including Ply Gem Industries, Inc., MW, Alenco and AHE. We may be subject to claims or liabilities arising from the ownership or operation of our subsidiaries prior to our acquisition of them. Our ability to seek indemnification from the former owners of our subsidiaries is limited by various factors, including the specific limitations contained in the respective acquisition agreement and the financial ability of the former owners. Under the terms of the stock purchase agreement governing the Ply Gem Acquisition, Nortek has agreed to indemnify us for liabilities arising from its former ownership or operations of subsidiaries or properties where such ownership or operation ceased prior to the completion of the Ply Gem Acquisition, including environmental liabilities, liabilities arising in connection with certain leases, product liability and other litigations, benefit plans, and for certain other liabilities. Our ability to seek indemnification from Nortek is, however, limited by the strength of Nortek’s financial condition, which could change in the future. These liabilities could be significant, and if we are unable to enforce the Nortek indemnification rights, could make it difficult to pay the interest or principal amount of the notes when due. Nortek has covenanted to use their reasonable commercial efforts to novate certain sale and lease contracts relating to discontinued operations, thereby removing us and our affiliates from certain indemnification obligations thereunder, which obligations we retained in connection with the sales of certain of our businesses. Accordingly, during 2004 Nortek successfully novated four sale contracts relating to our discontinued operations, including our disposition of Hoover Treated Wood Products, Inc., Sagebrush Sales, Peachtree Doors and Windows and SNE Enterprises. As a consequence, we are no longer responsible for any indemnification obligations to the buyers of these former operations. Nortek has also covenanted that after the Ply Gem Acquisition, it will not dispose of all or substantially all of its property and assets in a single transaction or series of related transactions, unless the acquirer of either its residential building products segment or HVAC segment (whichever is sold first) assumes all of Nortek’s obligations (including Nortek’s indemnification obligations) under the stock purchase agreement. We completed the MW Acquisition during 2004. Our ability to seek indemnification from the selling stockholders of MWM Holding is restricted to breaches of a limited amount of corporate representations and warranties, and for the first $250,000 in costs of compliance by MW with the New Jersey Industrial Site Recovery Act at an MW facility in Hammonton, New Jersey and for 75% of any such costs between $250,000 and $5.5 million resulting from the compliance by MW with that same act. We completed the Alenco Acquisition in February of 2006. Our ability to seek indemnification from the selling stockholders of AWC Holding Company for specified matters is subject to limitations, including the periods to submit claims, minimum amount of losses suffered and aggregate amounts of recovery. We completed the AHE Acquisition in October of 2006. Our ability to seek indemnification from the selling stockholders of AHE for specified matters is subject to limitations, including the periods to submit claims, minimum amount of losses suffered and aggregate amounts of recovery. 13 We could face potential product liability claims relating to products we manufacture. Our historical product liability claims have not been material and while management is not aware of any material product liability issues, we do face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. In the event that any of our products proves to be defective, among other things, we may be responsible for damages related to any defective products and we may be required to recall or redesign such products. Because of the long useful life of our products, it is possible that latent defects might not appear for several years. Any insurance we maintain may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. Further, any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could cause our sales to decline, or increase our costs. We are dependent on certain key personnel, the loss of whom could materially affect our financial performance and prospects. Our continued success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our senior management and certain key employees. We have entered into various equity-based compensation agreements with our senior executives, including Messrs. Robinette, Poe, Wayne, Morstad, and Montgomery, designed to encourage their retention. Each member of our senior management team has substantial experience and expertise in our industry and has made significant contributions to our growth and success. We do face the risk, however, that members of our senior management may not continue in their current positions and the loss of the services of any of these individuals could cause us to lose customers and reduce our net sales, lead to employee morale problems and/or the loss of key employees, or cause disruptions to our production. Also, we may be unable to find qualified individuals to replace any of the senior executive officers who leave our company. Interruptions in deliveries of raw materials or finished goods could adversely affect our production and increase our costs, thereby decreasing our profitability. Our dependency upon regular deliveries from particular suppliers means that interruptions or stoppages in such deliveries could adversely affect our operations until arrangements with alternate suppliers could be made. If any of our suppliers were unable to deliver materials to us for an extended period of time, as the result of financial difficulties, catastrophic events affecting their facilities or other factors beyond our control, or if we were unable to negotiate acceptable terms for the supply of materials with these or alternative suppliers, our business could suffer. We may not be able to find acceptable alternatives, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs for us. Even if acceptable alternatives were found, the process of locating and securing such alternatives might be disruptive to our business. Extended unavailability of a necessary raw material or finished good could cause us to cease manufacturing one or more of our products for a period of time. Environmental requirements may impose significant costs and liabilities on us. Our facilities are subject to numerous U.S. and Canadian federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to the presence of hazardous materials, pollution and the protection of the environment, including those governing emissions to air, discharges to water, use, storage and transport of hazardous materials, storage, treatment and disposal of waste, remediation of contaminated sites and protection of worker health and safety. From time to time, our facilities are subject to investigation by governmental regulators. We believe we are in material compliance with all applicable requirements of such laws and regulations. However, our efforts to comply with environmental requirements do not remove the risk that we may be held liable, or incur fines or penalties, and that the amount of liability, fines or penalties may be material, for, among other things, releases of hazardous substances occurring on or emanating from current or formerly owned or operated properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or for newly-discovered contamination at any of our properties from activities conducted by previous occupants. Certain environmental laws impose strict, and under certain circumstances joint and several, liability for the cost of addressing releases of hazardous substances upon certain classes of persons, including site owners or operators and persons that disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances at contaminated sites. Under the stock purchase agreement governing the Ply Gem Acquisition, our former parent, Nortek, has agreed to indemnify us for any such liabilities arising from our former ownership or operation of subsidiaries or properties where such ownership or operation ceased prior to the completion of the Ply Gem Acquisition and for certain other properties. Our ability to seek indemnification from Nortek is, however, limited by the strength of Nortek’s financial condition. Nortek has also covenanted that after the Ply Gem Acquisition, it will not dispose of all or substantially all of its property and assets in a single transaction or series of related transactions, unless the acquirer of either its residential building products segment or HVAC segment (whichever is sold first) assumes all of Nortek’s obligations (including Nortek’s indemnification obligations) under the stock purchase agreement. 14 We are currently involved in environmental proceedings involving CWD (arising from subsurface contamination discovered at our Calgary, Alberta property), and we may in the future be subject to environmental proceedings involving Thermal-Gard, Inc. (arising from groundwater contamination in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania) and Kroy Building Products, Inc. (relating to contamination in a drinking water well in York, Nebraska). Under the stock purchase agreement governing the Ply Gem Acquisition, Nortek is to indemnify us for fifty percent of any liability in excess of $750,000 with respect to the Calgary contamination and to indemnify us fully for any liability in connection with the Punxsutawney contamination. Alcan Aluminum Corporation assumed the obligation to indemnify us with respect to all liabilities for environmental contamination of the York property when it sold the property to us in 1998. Our former subsidiary, Hoover Treated Wood Products, Inc., is involved in an environmental proceeding in connection with a contaminated landfill site in Thomson, Georgia. While we had assumed an obligation to indemnify the purchaser of our former subsidiary when we sold Hoover Treated Wood Products, Inc., our obligation has been novated and assumed by Nortek. Under the stock purchase agreement governing the MW Acquisition, the sellers agreed to indemnify us for the first $250,000 in costs of compliance with the New Jersey Industrial Site Recovery Act at an MW facility in Hammonton, New Jersey and for 75% of any such costs between $250,000 and $5.5 million. MW’s Rocky Mount, Virginia property is subject to an environmental investigation pursuant to the Virginia Voluntary Remediation Program, relating to contamination associated with an underground storage tank formerly located at the Rocky Mount, VA property. Liability for this investigation and the subject contamination has been previously assumed by U.S. Industries, Inc., pursuant to its indemnity obligation under the Stock Purchase Agreement dated August 11, 1995, whereby U.S.Industries, Inc. sold the stock of MW to Fenway Partners. As the successor in interest of Fenway Partners, we are similary indemnified by U.S. Industries, Inc., which is currently working with the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality in its continuing efforts under the Voluntary Remediation Program. Changes in environmental laws and regulations or in their enforcement, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or other liabilities relating to our properties and operations or the inability to enforce the indemnification obligations of Nortek, the MW Sellers and U.S. Industries, Inc. could result in significant environmental liabilities which could make it difficult to pay the interest or principal amount of our debt when due. In addition, we might incur significant capital and other costs to comply with increasingly stringent U.S. or Canadian environmental laws or enforcement policies which would decrease our cash flow available to service our indebtedness. Manufacturing or assembly realignments may result in a decrease in our short-term earnings, until the expected cost reductions are achieved, due to the costs of implementation. We continually review our manufacturing and assembly operations and sourcing capabilities. Effects of periodic manufacturing realignments and cost savings programs could result in a decrease in our short-term earnings until the expected cost reductions are achieved. Such programs may include the consolidation and integration of facilities, functions, systems and procedures. Such actions may not be accomplished as quickly as anticipated and the expected cost reductions may not be achieved or sustained. We rely on a variety of intellectual property rights. Any threat to, or impairment of, these rights could cause us to incur costs to defend these rights. As a company that manufactures and markets branded products, we rely heavily on trademark and service mark protection to protect our brands. We have a significant number of issued patents and rely on copyright protection for certain of our technologies. These protections may not adequately safeguard our intellectual property and we may incur significant costs to defend our intellectual property rights, which may harm our operating results. There is a risk that third parties, including our current competitors, will infringe on our intellectual property rights, in which case we would have to defend these rights. There is also a risk that third parties, including our current competitors, will claim that our products infringe on their intellectual property rights. These third parties may bring infringement claims against us or our customers, which may harm our operating results. We are controlled by our principal equity holder, which has the power to take unilateral action and whose interests in our business could conflict with yours. Affiliates of, and companies managed by, Caxton-Iseman Capital, including Caxton-Iseman (Ply Gem) L.P. and Frederick Iseman, control our affairs and policies. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of these equity holders could be in conflict with the interests of the holders of the notes. In addition, these equity holders may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to holders of the notes. See “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters” and “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.” 15 Item 