Risk Factors" and other cautionary statements included herein. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations. There can be no assurance that other factors will not affect the accuracy of these forward-looking statements or that our actual results will not differ materially from the results anticipated in such forward-looking statements. While it is impossible to identify all such factors, factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those estimated by us include, but are not limited to, those factors or conditions described under "Risk factors," and the following: · our high degree of leverage and significant debt service obligations; · restrictions under the indentures governing the senior secured notes and senior subordinated notes and restrictions under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility; · the competitive nature of our industry; · changes in interest rates, and general economic, home repair and remodeling, and new home construction market conditions; · changes in the price and availability of raw materials; and · changes in our relationships with our significant customers. PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Company Overview We are a leading manufacturer of residential exterior building products in North America. We offer a comprehensive product line of vinyl siding and skirting, vinyl windows and doors, vinyl and composite fencing and railing, and stone veneer that serves both the home repair and remodeling and the new home construction sectors in the United States and Western Canada. Vinyl building products have the leading share of sales volume in siding and windows, and a fast growing share of sales volume in fencing in the United States. We also manufacture vinyl and aluminum soffit and siding accessories, aluminum trim coil, wood, vinyl, aluminum, and vinyl and aluminum clad windows, and steel and fiberglass doors, enabling us to bundle complementary and color-matched products and accessories with our core vinyl products. We believe our broad product offering and geographically diverse manufacturing base allow us to better serve our customers and provide us with a competitive advantage over other vinyl building products suppliers. We have two reportable segments: (i) Siding, Fencing, and Stone, and (ii) Windows and Doors. Additional information concerning our business is set forth in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of Part II of this report. 3 Unless the context indicates or requires otherwise, (i) the term “Ply Gem Holdings” refers to Ply Gem Holdings, Inc.; (ii) the term “Ply Gem Industries” refers to Ply Gem Industries, Inc., our principal operating subsidiary; and (iii) the terms "we", "our", "ours", "us", “Ply Gem”, and the "Company" refer collectively to Ply Gem Holdings and its subsidiaries. The use of these terms is not intended to imply that Ply Gem Holdings and Ply Gem Industries and its subsidiaries are not separate and distinct legal entities. History Ply Gem Holdings was incorporated on January 23, 2004 for the purpose of acquiring Ply Gem Industries from Nortek, Inc. (“Nortek”). Nortek was at the time a wholly-owned subsidiary of Nortek Holdings, Inc. (“Nortek Holdings”). The Ply Gem acquisition was completed on February 12, 2004, when Nortek sold Ply Gem Industries to Ply Gem Holdings pursuant to the terms of the stock purchase agreement among Ply Gem Investment Holdings, Inc. (“Ply Gem Investment Holdings”), Nortek and WDS LLC, dated as of December 19, 2003, as amended. Prior to February 12, 2004, Ply Gem Holdings had no operations and Ply Gem Industries was wholly-owned by a subsidiary of WDS LLC, which was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Nortek. Ply Gem Holdings, a Delaware corporation, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ply Gem Investment Holdings, a Delaware corporation controlled by an affiliate of CI Capital Partners LLC, formerly known as Caxton-Iseman Capital LLC. Prior to the Ply Gem Acquisition, Ply Gem Industries was known as the Windows, Doors and Siding division of Nortek. On August 27, 2004, Ply Gem Industries acquired all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of MWM Holding, Inc. (“MWM Holding”), in accordance with the Stock Purchase Agreement entered into among Ply Gem Industries, MWM Holding, and the selling stockholders, dated as of July 23, 2004. MWM Holding, a Delaware corporation, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ply Gem Industries. MWM Holding is the sole owner of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of MW Manufacturers, Inc. (“MW”). Prior to the MW acquisition, MWM Holding was owned by Investcorp SA (“Investcorp”) and its affiliates and members of MW management. On February 24, 2006, in connection with the acquisition of AWC Holding Company (“AWC”, and together with its subsidiaries, “Alenco”), a new holding company, Ply Gem Prime Holdings, Inc. (“Ply Gem Prime Holdings”), was formed pursuant to a merger involving Ply Gem Investment Holdings. As a result, Ply Gem Prime Holdings became the sole shareholder of Ply Gem Investment Holdings, each outstanding share of capital stock of Ply Gem Investment Holdings was converted into a share of a corresponding class of shares of the capital stock of Ply Gem Prime Holdings and Ply Gem Prime Holdings assumed Ply Gem Investment Holdings’ obligations under the Ply Gem Investment Holdings 2004 Stock Option Plan. In connection therewith, each outstanding stock option and phantom unit of Ply Gem Investment Holdings was converted on a 1:1 basis into a stock option and phantom unit of Ply Gem Prime Holdings. On February 24, 2006, Ply Gem completed the Alenco acquisition in accordance with a securities purchase agreement entered into among Ply Gem, all of the direct and indirect stockholders, warrant holders and stock option holders of AWC and FNL Management Corp., an Ohio corporation, as their representative on February 6, 2006. Pursuant to the securities purchase agreement, Ply Gem purchased all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock, warrants to purchase shares of common stock and options to purchase shares of common stock of AWC (other than certain shares of common stock of AWC held by certain members of the senior management of Alenco that were contributed separately to Ply Gem Prime Holdings, the new parent company of Ply Gem Investment Holdings, in exchange for shares of capital stock of Ply Gem Prime Holdings). Immediately following the completion of the Alenco acquisition, AWC became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ply Gem. The Alenco acquisition directly supports the Company’s national window strategy and today operates under common leadership with our other U.S. window businesses. On October 31, 2006, Ply Gem completed the acquisition of Alcoa Home Exteriors, Inc. (“AHE”) in accordance with a stock purchase agreement entered into among Ply Gem, Alcoa Securities Corporation and Alcoa Inc. on September 22, 2006. Pursuant to such stock purchase agreement, Ply Gem purchased all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of AHE so that, immediately following the completion of such purchase, AHE became a wholly owned subsidiary of Ply Gem. The AHE acquisition did not include an additional investment by management. AHE is a leading manufacturer of vinyl siding, aluminum siding, injection molded shutters and vinyl, aluminum and injection molded accessories. As a result of the AHE acquisition, AHE became part of our Siding, Fencing, and Stone Segment and operates under common leadership with our existing siding business. 4 On September 30, 2007, Ply Gem completed the acquisition of CertainTeed Corporation’s vinyl window and patio door business through a stock acquisition. On the acquisition date, the Company changed the name of the acquired business to Ply Gem Pacific Windows Corporation (“Pacific Windows”). The acquired vinyl window business is a leading manufacturer of premium vinyl windows and patio doors and produces windows for the residential new construction and remodeling markets and produces and sells window lineals to licensed window fabricators in the eastern United States. During the first quarter of 2008, Ply Gem sold certain assets that were acquired in the Pacific Windows acquisition that had been used to produce and sell window lineals to licensed fabricators in the eastern United States. The Pacific Windows’ vinyl window and patio door business operates three fabrication facilities which are located in Auburn, Washington, Corona, California, and Sacramento, California. The Pacific Windows acquisition directly supports the Company’s national window strategy and today Pacific Windows operates under common leadership with our other U.S. window businesses. On October 31, 2008, Ply Gem acquired substantially all of the assets of United Stone Veneer, LLC (“USV”). USV manufactures stone veneer products and operates a manufacturing facility in Middleburg, Pennsylvania. As a result of the USV acquisition, the Company modified the name of its “Siding, Fencing, and Railing” segment to “Siding, Fencing, and Stone” during 2008. Access to Company Information The Company maintains a website with the address www.plygem.com. The Company is not including the information contained on the Company’s website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company makes available through its website its Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Business Strategy † Continued Market Share Gains We intend to increase our market share both in our siding, fencing and stone products and in our window and door products by utilizing the breadth of our broad geographical footprint to serve customers across the United States and Canada. Additionally, our continued investments in product innovation and quality coupled with strong customer service further enhance our ability to capture market share in each of our markets. Furthermore, we believe there is substantial opportunity across our product families to cross-sell and bundle products to further leverage our channel partners and exclusive industry relationships. We have integrated our siding businesses into one operating group and have placed all of our siding, fencing and stone business units under common leadership to improve strategic focus, reduce costs and better serve our customers. We have organized our U.S. window businesses under one common leadership team to enhance our strategic focus. With our extensive manufacturing capabilities, product breadth and national distribution capabilities, we believe we can provide our customers with a cost-effective, single source from which to purchase their residential exterior building products. † Expand Brand Coverage and Product Innovation We intend to continually increase the value of the Ply Gem brands by leveraging the Ply Gem brand principles across each of the product brands in the Siding, Fencing and Stone and Windows and Doors business segments. These principles embodied within the Ply Gem experience for all customers, include: Service, Distribution, Reliability, Selection, Innovation and Sustainability. Together, they provide the customer a consistent and differentiated experience as compared to Ply Gem’s competitors. In addition, we plan to maximize the value of our new product innovations and technologies by deploying best practices and manufacturing techniques across our product categories. For example, we believe our innovations and expertise in manufacturing composite materials for railing products have favorably positioned our siding and accessories products for future introduction of composite materials. Furthermore, our recent addition of manufactured stone veneer to our product offering will provide our existing siding customers with access to the fastest growing category of exterior cladding products. Our vertical integration in producing aluminum windows positioned us to introduce a new aluminum and wood clad window, which won the new product of the day award at the 2008 International Builder’s Show. We currently employ 32 research and development professionals dedicated to new product development, reformulation, product redesign and other manufacturing and product improvements. 5 † Further Improve Operating Efficiencies While we have significantly improved our vinyl siding manufacturing cost structure over the last several years, we believe that there are further opportunities for improvement. We have proactively managed our manufacturing capacity in light of current depressed market conditions as was demonstrated by our closure of our Denison, Texas vinyl siding manufacturing facility in February 2008, the reduction of production at our Kearney, Missouri vinyl siding manufacturing facility in June 2009, and closure of our Hammonton, New Jersey, Phoenix, Arizona and Tupelo, Mississippi window manufacturing facilities during 2009, which reduced manufacturing costs and improved operational efficiencies at our remaining manufacturing facilities. We continue to expand our vertical integration in manufacturing and consolidate our purchases of key raw materials, such as PVC resin which we believe provides us with a manufacturing cost advantage as compared to some of our competitors. In addition, we implemented manufacturing improvements and best practices across all of our product categories, including, for example, expansion of our virtual plant strategy and further vertical integration in our window product lines which was demonstrated by the introduction of our aluminum clad window line. We have begun to optimize product development, sales and marketing, materials procurement, operations and administrative functions across all of our product categories and have centralized many back office functions, such as payroll, accounts payable, billing and cash application into our corporate office in Cary, North Carolina which improves the overall efficiency of these functions. We believe that additional opportunities remain as we further leverage our buying power across other raw materials as well as spending for non-raw material items by obtaining volume discounts and minimizing costs. In addition, the integration of our sales and marketing efforts across our product categories provides an ongoing opportunity to significantly improve sector penetration. Industry Overview Demand for exterior building products, including siding, fencing, stone, windows and doors, is primarily driven by repair and remodeling of existing homes and construction of new homes, which are affected by changes in national and local economic and demographic conditions, employment levels, availability of financing, interest rates, consumer confidence and other economic factors. Home Repair and Remodeling Since the early 1990s and through 2006, demand for home repair and remodeling products increased at a compounded annual growth rate of 4.3%, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, as a result of strong economic growth, low interest rates and favorable demographics. However, beginning in 2007 through 2009 the ability for home owners to finance repair and remodeling expenditures, such as replacement windows or vinyl siding, has been negatively impacted by a general tightening of lending requirements by banks and other financial institutions. Another factor that has negatively impacted home owner’s ability to finance repair and remodeling expenditures is the significant decrease in home values that has occurred in the past two years in many U.S. metropolitan areas which has reduced the amount of home equity that homeowners can borrow against to finance repair and remodeling expenditures. In fact, it is estimated that 23% of all U.S. home mortgages are underwater, whereby the home’s worth is less than the amount owed by the homeowner on the mortgage. In addition, management believes that expenditures for home repair and remodeling products are also impacted by consumer confidence which declined during 2009 due to general economic conditions and increased unemployment levels. As such, management believes expenditures for home repair and remodeling products declined in 2009 from 2008 levels. Although certain aspects of the recently enacted federal stimulus plan, such as energy saving tax credits, may encourage some consumers to make home improvements, including the replacement of older windows with newer more energy efficient windows, management believes these favorable measures will be largely offset during 2010 by the negative impact of high unemployment, limited availability of consumer financing and lower consumer confidence levels. As such, management does not expect that expenditures for home repair and remodeling products will improve during 2010 from 2009 levels. New Home Construction New home construction experienced strong growth from the early 1990s to 2006, with housing starts increasing at a compounded annual growth rate of 3.9%. However in 2007, 2008 and 2009, single family housing starts declined 29.7%, 40.5% and 28.8% respectively, according to the National Association of Home Builders (“NAHB”). Although some market forecasts including the NAHB, project an improvement in single family housing starts in 2010, management expects 2010 single family housing starts to be relatively flat compared to 2009 levels due to the negative impact from the additional foreclosures expected during 2010, continued high unemployment levels, and other negative general economic factors. 6 While the industry is experiencing a period of severe correction and downturn, management believes the long-term economic outlook for new construction is favorable and supported by a favorable interest rate environment and strong demographics, as increasing immigration drives demand for starter homes. According to the Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University, net new households between 2010 and 2020 are expected to be between 12.5 million units and 14.8 million units, with the low end of the range equal to net new housing units achieved between 1995 and 2005. Additionally, interest rates on home loans remain at historically low levels and the U.S. Congress passed an economic stimulus package that provides, among other things, favorable tax credits towards home purchases which are intended to stimulate demand for U.S. housing. Description of Business Financial information about our segments is included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and incorporated herein by reference. Siding, Fencing, and Stone Segment Products In our Siding, Fencing, and Stone segment, our principal products include vinyl siding and skirting, vinyl and aluminum soffit, aluminum trim coil, J-channels, wide crown molding, window and door trim, F-channels, H-molds, fascia, undersill trims, outside/inside corner posts, rain removal systems, injection molded designer accents such as shakes, shingles, scallops, shutters, vents and mounts, vinyl fence, vinyl and composite railing, and stone veneer. We sell our siding and accessories under our Variform, Napco, Mastic Home Exteriors, and Cellwood brand names and under the Georgia-Pacific brand name through a private label program. We also sell our Providence line of vinyl siding and accessories to Lowe’s under our Durabuilt private label brand name. Our vinyl and vinyl-composite fencing and railing products are sold under our Kroy and Kroy Express brand names. Our stone veneer products are sold under our United Stone Veneer brand name, however, in 2010 we changed the stone veneer products branding to Ply Gem Stone from United Stone Veneer. A summary of our product lines is presented below according to price point: Specialty/Super Premium · CSL 600 (Variform) · Heritage Cedar Shingle and Round Cut (Variform) · Victoria Harbor (Variform) · Cedar Select Shingle and Round Cut (Napco) · American “76” Collection (Napco) · Structure EPS (Mastic Home Exteriors) · Cedar Discovery (Mastic Home Exteriors) · Cedar Dimensions (Cellwood) · Cedar Spectrum Shingle (Georgia-Pacific) · Cedar Spectrum Round Cut (Georgia-Pacific) · Seasons (Georgia-Pacific) · Somerset (Georgia-Pacific) · Board and Batten (Variform, Napco, Mastic Home Exteriors, Cellwood, and Georgia-Pacific) · Kroy composite railing systems (Kroy) · United Stone Veneer Premium · Timber Oak Ascent (Variform) · Varigrain Preferred (Variform) · American Splendor (Napco) · Liberty Elite (Mastic Home Exteriors) · Charleston Beaded Collection (Mastic Home Exteriors) · Quest Signature (Mastic Home Exteriors) · T-lok Barkwood (Mastic Home Exteriors) · Dimensions (Cellwood) · Dimensions Beaded (Cellwood) · Chatham Ridge (Georgia-Pacific) · Cedar Lane Select (Georgia-Pacific) · Kroy Express (Kroy) 7 Standard · Camden Pointe (Variform) · Nottingham (Variform) · Ashton Heights (Variform) · American Herald (Napco) · American Tradition (Napco) · Ovation (Mastic Home Exteriors) · Silhouette Classic (Mastic Home Exteriors) · Carvedwood 44 (Mastic Home Exteriors) · Progressions (Cellwood) · Heritage Hill (Georgia-Pacific) · Forest Ridge (Georgia-Pacific) · Shadow Ridge (Georgia-Pacific) · Castle Ridge (Georgia-Pacific) · Kroy Vinyl Fence and Railing Products (Kroy) Economy · Contractor’s Choice (Variform) · American Comfort (Napco) · Providence (Napco) · Mill Creek (Mastic Home Exteriors) · Trade-Mark cg (Mastic Home Exteriors) · Brentwood (Mastic Home Exteriors) · Evolutions (Cellwood) · Vision Pro (Georgia-Pacific) Manufactured Housing · Parkside (Georgia-Pacific) · Oakside (Georgia-Pacific) The breadth of our product lines and our multiple brand and price point strategy enable us to target multiple distribution channels (wholesale, retail and manufactured housing) and end sectors (home repair and remodeling and new home construction), with minimal channel conflict. Customers and Distribution We have a multi-channel distribution network that serves both the home repair and remodeling and new home construction sectors, which exhibit different, often counter-balancing, demand characteristics. In conjunction with our multiple brand and price point strategy, we believe our multi-channel distribution strategy enables us to increase our sales and sector penetration while minimizing channel conflict. We believe our strategy reduces our dependence on any one channel, which provides us with a greater ability to sustain our financial performance through economic fluctuations. We sell our siding and accessories to specialty distributors (one-step distribution) and to wholesale distributors (two-step distribution). Our specialty distributors sell directly to remodeling contractors and builders. Our wholesale distributors sell to retail home centers and lumberyards who, in turn, sell to remodeling contractors, builders and consumers. In the specialty channel, we have developed an extensive network of approximately 800 independent distributors, serving over 22,000 contractors and builders nationwide. We are well-positioned in this channel as many of these distributors are both the largest and leading consolidators in the industry. In the wholesale channel, we are the sole supplier of vinyl siding and accessories to BlueLinx (formerly a distribution operation of the Georgia-Pacific Corporation), one of the largest building products distributors in the United States. Through BlueLinx and our BlueLinx dedicated sales force, our Georgia-Pacific private label vinyl siding products are sold at major retail home centers, lumberyards and manufactured housing manufacturers. A portion of our siding and accessories is also sold directly to Lowe’s Home Improvement Centers under our Durabuilt brand name. Our growing customer base of fencing and railing consists of fabricators, distributors, retail home centers and lumberyards. Our customer base of manufactured stone veneer products consists of distributors, lumberyards, retailers and contractors. Our largest customer, BlueLinx, made up 15.2% of the net sales of our Siding, Fencing, and Stone segment and 9.2% of our consolidated net sales for both the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009. 8 Production and Facilities Vinyl siding, skirting, soffit and accessories are manufactured in our Martinsburg, West Virginia, Jasper, Tennessee, Stuarts Draft, Virginia and Kearney, Missouri facilities, while all metal products are produced in our Sidney, Ohio facility with some metal painting operations being performed in our Valencia, Pennsylvania facility. The majority of our injection molded products such as shakes, shingles, scallops, shutters, vents and mounts are manufactured in our Gaffney, South Carolina facility. Due to excess capacity and to reduce operating costs, the Company closed the Denison, Texas facility in early 2008 and consolidated the majority of the production from the Company’s vinyl siding plant in Kearney, Missouri into its other three remaining vinyl siding plants in the first half of 2009. In addition, the Company consolidated its metal accessory production from our Valencia, Pennsylvania facility into our Sidney, Ohio facility which occurred during the later part of 2008 and early 2009. The vinyl and metal plants have sufficient capacity to support planned levels of sales growth for the foreseeable future. Our fencing and railing products are currently manufactured at our York, Nebraska and Fair Bluff, North Carolina facilities. The fencing and railing plants have sufficient capacity to support our planned sales growth for the foreseeable future. Our stone veneer products are manufactured at our Middleburg, Pennsylvania facility. The stone veneer plant has sufficient capacity to support our planned sales growth for the foreseeable future. We expect our capital expenditures for our Siding, Fencing and Stone segment in the near future to be at or below our historical expenditure levels as a result of lower near-term demand due to market conditions. Raw Materials and Suppliers PVC resin and aluminum are major components in the production of our siding, fencing, and stone products and changes in PVC resin and aluminum prices have a direct impact on our cost of products sold. Historically, we have been able to pass on the price increases to our customers. The results of operations for individual quarters can be negatively impacted by a delay between the time of raw material cost increases and price increases that we implement in our products, or conversely can be positively impacted by a delay between the time of a raw material price decrease and competitive pricing moves that we implement accordingly. Competition We compete with other national and regional manufacturers of vinyl siding, fencing and stone products. We believe we are one of the largest manufacturers of vinyl siding in North America, alongside CertainTeed and Alside. We believe that we have increased our market share and that in 2009 we accounted for approximately 33% of the U.S. vinyl siding market as compared to approximately 29% in 2008. Our aluminum accessories competitors include Alsco, Gentek and other smaller regional competitors. Significant growth in vinyl fencing and railing has attracted many new entrants, and the sector today is fragmented. Our fencing and railing competitors include U.S. Fence, Homeland, Westech, Bufftech, Royal, and Azek. Our stone veneer competitors include Owens Corning, Eldorado Stone, Coronado Stone, and smaller, regional competitors. We generally compete on product quality, breadth of product offering, sales and service support. In addition to competition from other vinyl siding, fencing and stone products, our products face competition from alternative materials, such as wood, metal, fiber cement and masonry siding. Increases in competition from other vinyl exterior building products manufacturers and alternative building materials could cause us to lose customers and lead to net sales decreases. Seasonality Markets for our products are seasonal and can be affected by inclement weather conditions. Historically, our business has experienced increased sales in the second and third quarters of the year due to increased construction during those periods. Because a portion of our overhead and expenses are fixed throughout the year, our operating profits tend to be lower in the first and fourth quarters. Inclement weather conditions can affect the timing of when our products are applied or installed, causing delayed profit margins when such conditions exist. We generally carry increased working capital during the first half of a fiscal year to support those months where customer demand exceeds production capacity. We believe that this is typical within the industry. Backlog Our Siding, Fencing, and Stone segment had a backlog of approximately $7.1 million at December 31, 2009, and a backlog of approximately $6.4 million at December 31, 2008. We expect to fill 100% of the orders during 2010. 9 Windows and Doors Segment Products In our Windows and Doors segment, our principal products include vinyl, aluminum, wood and clad-wood windows and patio doors, and steel, wood, and fiberglass entry doors that serve both the new home construction and the repair and remodeling sectors in the United States and Western Canada. Our products in our Windows and Doors segment are sold under the Ply Gem Windows, Great Lakes Window, and CWD Windows and Doors brands. In the past, we have also sold our windows and doors under our MW, Patriot, Twin Seal, Alenco, Builders View, Great Lakes, Ply Gem, Uniframe, Grandview, Seabrooke, Bayshore, Napco, and CertainTeed brand names. A summary of our current product lines is presented below according to price point: Ply Gem Windows Great Lakes Window CWD New Construction Replacement Replacement New Construction Specialty/Super-Premium Mira Premium Series Select Series Uniframe Regency Fusion Premium Pro Series - West Premium Series Lifestyles Ambassador Standard Pro Series - East Pro Series Seabrooke Envoy Diplomat Premier Economy Builder Series Contractor Series Bayshore Consul In 2010, we will begin selling our CWD Windows and Doors under the Ply Gem brand in Canada which is consistent with our strategy of building brand equity in the Ply Gem name. We continue introducing new products to the portfolio which allow us to enter or further penetrate new distribution channels and customers. The breadth of our product lines and our multiple price point strategy enable us to target multiple distribution channels (wholesale, retail and builder direct) and end-use sectors (home repair and remodeling and new home construction). Customers and Distribution We have a multi-channel distribution and product strategy that enables us to serve both the home repair and remodeling and new home construction sectors. By offering this broad product offering and industry leading service, we are able to meet the local needs of our customers on a national scale. This strategy has enabled our customer base (existing and new) to simplify their supply chain by consolidating window suppliers. Our good, better, best product and price point strategy allows us to increase our sales and sector penetration while minimizing channel conflict. This strategy reduces our dependence on any one channel, providing us with a greater ability to sustain our financial performance through economic fluctuations. The new construction product lines are sold for use in new residential and light commercial construction through a highly diversified customer base, which includes independent building material dealers, regional/national lumberyard chains, builder direct/OEMs, and retail home centers. Our repair and remodeling window products are primarily sold through independent home improvement dealers and one-step distributors. Dealers typically market directly to homeowners or contractors in connection with remodeling requirements while distributors concentrate on local independent retailers. 10 In Canada, sales of CWD product lines in the new construction market are predominantly made through direct sales to builders and contractors, while sales in the renovation market are made primarily through retail lumberyards. CWD products are distributed through eight distribution centers. Our sales of windows and doors to our top five largest window and door customers represented 23.1% of the net sales of our Windows and Doors segment and 9.1% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our five largest customers represented 24.8% of the net sales of our Windows and Doors segment and 8.5% of our consolidated net sales. Production and Facilities Our window and door products leverage a network of vertically integrated production and distribution facilities located in Virginia, Ohio, North Carolina, Georgia, Texas, California, Washington and western Canada. Our window and door manufacturing facilities have benefited from our continued investment and commitment to product development and product quality combined with increasing integration of best practices across our product offerings. In 2009, we began producing vinyl compound for our west coast facilities which improved our operating efficiency and resulted in lower production cost for these items. In 2009, we also began making upgrades to insulated glass production lines in anticipation of more stringent energy efficiency requirements driven by changes in building codes and consumer demand for Energy Star rated products. These improvements will continue throughout 2010. Due to excess capacity and the need to reduce operating costs, the Company closed the Hammonton, New Jersey, Phoenix, Arizona and Tupelo, Mississippi facilities in the first six months of 2009. While the market has required us to close facilities and ramp down capacity in our remaining facilities in 2009, all of our facilities have the ability to increase capacity in a cost effective manner by expanding production shifts. Ongoing capital investments will focus upon new product introductions and equipment maintenance and cost reductions. Raw Materials and Suppliers PVC compound, wood, aluminum, and glass are major components in the production of our window and door products. Historically, changes in PVC compound, aluminum billet, and wood cutstock prices have had the most significant impact on our material cost of products sold in our Windows and Doors segment. We are one of the largest consumers of PVC resin in North America and we continue to leverage our purchasing power on this key raw material. As mentioned above, the PVC resin compound that is used in window lineal production is now produced internally. The leveraging of our PVC resin buying power and the expansion of PVC resin compounding capabilities has begun to benefit all of our domestic window companies. Our window plants have significantly consolidated glass purchases to take advantage of strategic sourcing savings opportunities. In addition, we have continued to vertically integrate aluminum extrusion for a variety of our product lines. Competition The window and patio door sector remains fragmented, comprised primarily of local and regional manufacturers with limited product offerings. The sector’s competitors in the United States include national brands, such as Jeld-Wen, Simonton, Pella and Andersen, and numerous regional brands, including MI Home Products, Atrium, Weathershield, and Milgard. Competitors in Canada include Jeld-Wen, Gienow, All Weather and Loewen. We generally compete on service, product performance, a complete product offering, sales and support. We believe all of our products are competitively priced. Seasonality Markets for our products are seasonal and can be affected by inclement weather conditions. Historically, our business has experienced increased sales in the second and third quarters of the year due to increased construction during those periods. Accordingly, our working capital is typically higher in the second and third quarters as well. Because much of our overhead and expense are fixed throughout the year, our operating profits tend to be lower in the first and fourth quarters. Inclement weather conditions can affect the timing of when our products are applied or installed, causing delayed profit margins when such conditions exist. Because we have successfully implemented lean manufacturing techniques and many of our windows and doors are made to order, inventories in our Windows and Doors segment do not change significantly with seasonal demand. 11 Backlog Our Windows and Doors segment had a backlog of approximately $17.9 million at December 31, 2009, and approximately $16.7 million at December 31, 2008. We expect to fill 100% of the orders during 2010. Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters We are subject to Canadian and U.S. federal, state, provincial and local environmental laws and regulations that relate to the presence of hazardous materials, pollution and the protection of the environment, including those governing emissions to air, discharges to water, use, storage and transport of hazardous materials, storage, treatment and disposal of waste, remediation of contaminated sites, and protection of worker health and safety. From time to time, our facilities are subject to investigation by environmental regulators. We believe that our current operations are in substantial compliance with all applicable environmental laws and that we maintain all material permits required to operate our business. Based on available information, we do not believe that any known compliance obligations, claims, releases or investigations will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. However, there can be no guarantee that these or newly discovered matters or any inability to enforce available indemnification rights we have against Nortek (an indemnity under the stock purchase agreement governing the Ply Gem acquisition) and Alcan Aluminum Corporation (an indemnity we received when we purchased our York, Nebraska facility from Alcan Aluminum Corporation in 1998) will not result in material costs. Under the stock purchase agreement governing the MW acquisition, the sellers agreed to indemnify us for the first $250,000 in certain costs of compliance with the New Jersey Industrial Site Recovery Act at an MW facility in Hammonton, New Jersey and for 75% of any such costs between $250,000 and $5.5 million. MW’s Rocky Mount, Virginia property is involved in a corrective action, relating to contamination associated with an underground storage tank formerly located at the Rocky Mount, Virginia property. Liability for this subject contamination has been previously assumed by U.S. Industries, Inc., pursuant to its indemnity obligation under the stock purchase agreement dated August 11, 1995, whereby U.S. Industries, Inc. sold the stock of MW to Fenway Partners. As the successor in interest of Fenway Partners, we are similary indemnified by U.S. Industries, Inc. U.S. Industries and MW are working to develop a course of action to address the site contamination that is acceptable to both companies and the Virginia regulatory authorities. We voluntarily comply with the Vinyl Siding Institute (“VSI”) Certification Program with respect to our vinyl siding and accessories. Prior to 1998, there was no commonly-adopted industry certification process for vinyl siding products. Uniform minimum standards were available, but uniform compliance was not assured. In 1998, the VSI instituted a new industry-wide program to assure compliance with minimum product standards. All major vinyl siding manufacturers, representing over 97% of all products, comply with these guidelines. Under the VSI Certification Program, third party verification and certification, provided by Architectural Testing, Inc., (“ATI”) is used to ensure uniform compliance with the minimum standards set by the American Society for Testing and Materials, (“ASTM”). Those products compliant with ASTM specifications for vinyl siding will perform satisfactorily in virtually any environment. ATI initially inspects all qualifying products for compliance and inspects plants to assure effective quality control programs. In addition, compliance with advertised specifications is verified. All manufacturing plants are inspected bi-annually during unannounced visits to monitor compliance. Upon certification, products are added to the official VSI list of certified products and are eligible to bear the official VSI certification logo. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had 4,242 full-time employees worldwide, of whom 3,817 were in the United States and 425 were in Canada. Employees at our Canadian plant, our Valencia, Pennsylvania plant, and our Bryan, Texas plant are currently our only employees with whom we have a collective bargaining agreement. · Approximately 5.7% of our total employees are represented by the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement with certain of our Canadian employees, which expires on December 31, 2011. · Approximately 0.5% of our total employees are represented by the United Steelworkers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC, pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement with certain of our Valencia, Pennsylvania employees, which expires on December 1, 2011. · Approximately 7.9% of our total employees are represented by the International Chemical Workers Union Council, pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement with certain of our Alenco Windows employees, which expires on December 4, 2010. 12 Financial Information about Geographic Areas All of the Company’s operations are located in the United States and Canada. Revenue from external customers for the year 2009 consists of: · $882.9 million from United States customers · $65.0 million from Canadian customers · $3.5 million from all other foreign customers Revenue from external customers for the year 2008 consists of: · $1,084.1 million from United States customers · $84.5 million from Canadian customers · $6.4 million from all other foreign customers Revenue from external customers for the year 2007 consists of: · $1,269.8 million from United States customers · $89.3 million from Canadian customers · $4.4 million from all other foreign customers At December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, long-lived assets totaled approximately $17.5 million, $23.2 million, and $51.2 million, respectively, in Canada, and $729.7 million, $771.7 million, and $1,240.0 million, respectively, in the United States. We are exposed to risks inherent in any foreign operation, including foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Associated with Our Business Downturns in the home repair and remodeling and new home construction sectors or the economy could lower the demand for, and pricing of, our products, which in turn could cause our net sales and net income to decrease. Our performance is dependent to a significant extent upon the levels of home repair and remodeling and new home construction spending, all of which are affected by such factors as interest rates, inflation, consumer confidence, unemployment, and the availability of consumer credit. Single family housing starts for the new construction market declined significantly in 2009 as compared to 2008. If these trends continue, our net sales and net income may be adversely affected. Availability of consumer credit could impact home repair and remodeling and new home construction sectors which could lower the demand for, and pricing of, our products, which in turn could cause our net sales and net income to decrease. Our performance is dependent upon consumers having the ability to finance home repair and remodeling projects and/or the purchase of new homes. The ability of consumers to finance these purchases are affected by such factors as new and existing home prices, homeowners’ equity values, interest rates and home foreclosures, which in turn could result in a tightening of lending standards by financial institutions and reduce the ability of some consumers to finance home purchases or repair and remodeling expenditures. Recent trends, including declining home values, increased home foreclosures and tightening of credit standards by lending institutions, have negatively impacted the home repair and remodeling and new home construction sectors. If these credit market trends continue, our net sales and net income may be adversely affected. 13 We face competition from other vinyl exterior building products manufacturers and alternative building materials. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose customers and our sales could decline. We compete with other national and regional manufacturers of vinyl exterior building products. Some of these companies are larger and have greater financial resources than we do. Accordingly, these competitors may be better equipped to withstand changes in conditions within the industries in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. These competitors could take a greater share of sales and cause us to lose business from our customers. Additionally, our products face competition from alternative materials: wood, metal, fiber cement and masonry in siding, and wood in windows. An increase in competition from other vinyl exterior building products manufacturers and alternative building materials could cause us to lose our customers and lead to decreases in net sales. Changes in the costs and availability of raw materials, especially PVC resin and aluminum, can decrease our profit margin by increasing our costs. Our principal raw materials, PVC resin and aluminum, have been subject to rapid price changes in the past. While we have historically been able to substantially pass on significant PVC resin and aluminum cost increases through price increases to our customers, our results of operations for individual quarters can be and have been hurt by a delay between the time of PVC resin and aluminum cost increases and price increases in our products. While we expect that any significant future PVC resin and aluminum cost increases will be offset in part or whole over time by price increases to our customers, we may not be able to pass on any future price increases. Because we depend on a core group of significant customers, our sales, cash flows from operations and results of operations may decline if our key customers reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 36.3% of our net sales in the year ended December 31, 2009. Our largest customer, BlueLinx, distributes our vinyl siding and accessories through multiple channels within its building products distribution business, and accounted for approximately 9.2% of our 2009 net sales. We expect a small number of customers to continue to account for a substantial portion of our net sales for the foreseeable future. The loss of, or a significant adverse change in our relationships with BlueLinx or any other major customer could cause a material decrease in our net sales. We expect our relationship with BlueLinx to continue. The loss of, or a reduction in orders from, any significant customers, losses arising from customers’ disputes regarding shipments, fees, merchandise condition or related matters, or our inability to collect accounts receivable from any major retail customer could cause a decrease in our net income and our cash flow. In addition, revenue from customers that have accounted for significant revenue in past periods, individually or as a group, may not continue, or if continued, may not reach or exceed historical levels in any period. Our business is seasonal and can be affected by inclement weather conditions which could affect the timing of the demand for our products and cause reduced profit margins when such conditions exist. Markets for our products are seasonal and can be affected by inclement weather conditions. Historically, our business has experienced increased sales in the second and third quarters of the year due to increased construction during those periods. Because much of our overhead and expense are fixed throughout the year, our operating profits tend to be lower in the first and fourth quarters. Inclement weather conditions can affect the timing of when our products are applied or installed, causing reduced profit margins when such conditions exist. If we are unable to meet future capital requirements our product offering may become dated, our productivity may decrease and the quality of our products may decline, which, in turn, could reduce our sales and profitability. We periodically make capital investments to, among other things, maintain and upgrade our facilities and enhance our production processes. As we grow our business, we may have to incur significant capital expenditures. If we do not have, or are unable to obtain adequate funds to make all necessary capital expenditures when required, or if the amount of future capital expenditures are materially in excess of our anticipated or current expenditures, our product offering may become dated, our productivity may decrease and the quality of our products may decline, which, in turn, could reduce our sales and profitability. 14 Increases in the cost of labor, union organizing activity and work stoppages at our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers could delay or impede our production, reduce sales of our products and increase our costs. Our financial performance is affected by the availability of qualified personnel and the cost of labor. Currently, approximately 14.1% of our employees are represented by labor unions. We are subject to the risk that strikes or other types of conflicts with personnel may arise or that we may become a subject of union organizing activity. Furthermore, some of our direct and indirect suppliers have unionized work forces. Strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by these suppliers could result in slowdowns or closures of facilities where components of our products are manufactured. Any interruption in the production or delivery of our products could reduce sales of our products and increase our costs. We may be subject to claims arising from the operations of our subsidiaries, including Ply Gem Industries, MW, Alenco, AHE, Pacific Windows, and USV prior to our acquisitions. Our ability to seek indemnification from the former owners of our subsidiaries may be limited, in which case, we would be liable for these claims. We have acquired all of our subsidiaries in the last several years, including Ply Gem Industries, MW, Alenco, AHE, Pacific Windows and USV. We may be subject to claims or liabilities arising from the ownership or operation of our subsidiaries prior to our acquisition of them. Our ability to seek indemnification from the former owners of our subsidiaries is limited by various factors, including the specific limitations contained in the respective acquisition agreement and the financial ability of the former owners. Under the terms of the stock purchase agreement governing the acquisition of Ply Gem Industries, Nortek has agreed to indemnify us for liabilities arising from its former ownership or operations of subsidiaries or properties where such ownership or operation ceased prior to the completion of the Ply Gem acquisition, including certain environmental liabilities, liabilities arising in connection with certain leases, product liability and other litigations, benefit plans, and for certain other liabilities. Our ability to seek indemnification from Nortek is, however, limited by the strength of Nortek’s financial condition, which could change in the future, as well as by specific financial limits for certain indemnities. These liabilities could be significant, and if we are unable to enforce the Nortek indemnification rights, could adversely affect our operating performance. Nortek has covenanted to use their reasonable commercial efforts to novate certain sale and lease contracts relating to discontinued operations, thereby removing us and our affiliates from certain indemnification obligations thereunder, which obligations we retained in connection with the sales of certain of our businesses. Accordingly, during 2004 Nortek successfully novated four sale contracts relating to our discontinued operations, including our disposition of Hoover Treated Wood Products, Inc., Sagebrush Sales, Peachtree Doors and Windows and SNE Enterprises. As a consequence, we are no longer responsible for any indemnification obligations to the buyers of these former operations. Nortek has also covenanted that after the Ply Gem acquisition, it will not dispose of all or substantially all of its property and assets in a single transaction or series of related transactions, unless the acquirer of either its residential building products segment or HVAC segment (whichever is sold first) assumes all of Nortek’s obligations (including Nortek’s indemnification obligations) under the stock purchase agreement. We completed the acquisition of MW during 2004. Our ability to seek indemnification from the selling stockholders of MWM Holding is restricted to breaches of a limited amount of corporate representations and warranties, and for the first $250,000 in certain costs of compliance by MW with the New Jersey Industrial Site Recovery Act at an MW facility in Hammonton, New Jersey and for 75% of any such costs between $250,000 and $5.5 million resulting from the compliance by MW with that same act. We completed the acquisition of Alenco in February of 2006. Our ability to seek indemnification from the selling stockholders of AWC Holding Company for specified matters is subject to limitations, including the periods to submit claims, minimum amount of losses suffered and aggregate amounts of recovery. We completed the acquisition of AHE in October of 2006. Our ability to seek indemnification from the selling stockholders of AHE for specified matters is subject to limitations, including the periods to submit claims, minimum amount of losses suffered and aggregate amounts of recovery. We completed the acquisition of Pacific Windows in September of 2007. Our ability to seek indemnification from the selling stockholders of Pacific Windows for specified matters is subject to limitations, including the periods to submit claims, minimum amount of losses suffered and aggregate amounts of recovery. 15 We completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of USV in October 2008. Our ability to seek indemnification from the sellers for specified matters is subject to limitations, including the periods to submit claims, minimum amount of losses suffered and aggregate amounts of recovery. We could face potential product liability claims relating to products we manufacture. Our historical product liability claims have not been material and while management is not aware of any material product liability issues, we do face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. In the event that any of our products proves to be defective, among other things, we may be responsible for damages related to any defective products and we may be required to recall or redesign such products. Because of the long useful life of our products, it is possible that latent defects might not appear for several years. Any insurance we maintain may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. Further, any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could cause our sales to decline, or increase our costs. We are dependent on certain key personnel, the loss of whom could materially affect our financial performance and prospects. Our continued success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our senior management and certain key employees. To encourage the retention of certain key executives, we have entered into various equity-based compensation agreements with our senior executives, including Messrs. Robinette, Poe, Wayne, Morstad, and Pigues designed to encourage their retention. Each member of our senior management team has substantial experience and expertise in our industry and has made significant contributions to our growth and success. We do face the risk, however, that members of our senior management may not continue in their current positions and their loss of services could cause us to lose customers and reduce our net sales, lead to employee morale problems and/or the loss of key employees, or cause disruptions to our production. Also, we may be unable to find qualified individuals to replace any of the senior executive officers who leave our company. Interruptions in deliveries of raw materials or finished goods could adversely affect our production and increase our costs, thereby decreasing our profitability. Our dependency upon regular deliveries from particular suppliers means that interruptions or stoppages in such deliveries could adversely affect our operations until arrangements with alternate suppliers could be made. If any of our suppliers were unable to deliver materials to us for an extended period of time, as the result of financial difficulties, catastrophic events affecting their facilities or other factors beyond our control, or if we were unable to negotiate acceptable terms for the supply of materials with these or alternative suppliers, our business could suffer. We may not be able to find acceptable alternatives, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs for us. Even if acceptable alternatives were found, the process of locating and securing such alternatives might be disruptive to our business. Extended unavailability of a necessary raw material or finished good could cause us to cease manufacturing one or more of our products for a period of time. Environmental requirements may impose significant costs and liabilities on us. Our facilities are subject to numerous United States and Canadian federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to the presence of hazardous materials, pollution and the protection of the environment, including those governing emissions to air, discharges to water, use, storage and transport of hazardous materials, storage, treatment and disposal of waste, remediation of contaminated sites and protection of worker health and safety. From time to time, our facilities are subject to investigation by governmental regulators. In addition, we have been identified as one of many potentially responsible parties for contamination present at certain offsite locations to which we or our predecessors are alleged to have sent hazardous materials for recycling or disposal. We believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable requirements of such laws and regulations. However, our efforts to comply with environmental requirements do not remove the risk that we may be held liable, or incur fines or penalties, and that the amount of liability, fines or penalties may be material, for, among other things, releases of hazardous substances occurring on or emanating from current or formerly owned or operated properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or for newly-discovered contamination at any of our properties from activities conducted by previous occupants. Certain environmental laws impose strict, and under certain circumstances joint and several, liability for the cost of addressing releases of hazardous substances upon certain classes of persons, including site owners or operators and persons that disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances at contaminated sites. Under the stock purchase agreement governing the Ply Gem acquisition, our former parent, Nortek, has agreed to indemnify us subject to certain limitations for such liabilities arising from our former ownership or operation of subsidiaries or properties where such ownership or operation ceased prior to the completion of the Ply Gem acquisition and for certain other properties. Our ability to seek indemnification from Nortek is, however, limited by the strength of Nortek’s financial condition. Nortek has also covenanted that after the Ply Gem acquisition, it will not dispose of all or substantially all of its property and assets in a single transaction or series of related transactions, unless the acquirer of either its residential building products segment or HVAC segment (whichever is sold first) assumes all of Nortek’s obligations (including Nortek’s indemnification obligations) under the stock purchase agreement. 16 We are currently involved in environmental proceedings involving CWD Windows and Doors, Inc. (“CWD”) (arising from subsurface contamination discovered at our Calgary, Alberta property), and we may in the future be subject to environmental proceedings involving Thermal-Gard, Inc. (arising from groundwater contamination in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania) and Kroy Building Products, Inc. (relating to contamination in a drinking water well in York, Nebraska). Under the stock purchase agreement governing the Ply Gem acquisition, Nortek is to indemnify us fully for any liability in connection with the Punxsutawney contamination. Alcan Aluminum Corporation assumed the obligation to indemnify us with respect to certain liabilities for environmental contamination of the York property occurring prior to 1994 when it sold the property to us in 1998. Our former subsidiary, Hoover Treated Wood Products, Inc., is involved in an environmental proceeding in connection with a contaminated landfill site in Thomson, Georgia. While we had assumed an obligation to indemnify the purchaser of our former subsidiary when we sold Hoover Treated Wood Products, Inc., our obligation has been novated and assumed by Nortek. Under the stock purchase agreement governing the acquisition of MW, the sellers agreed to indemnify us for the first $250,000 in certain costs of compliance with the New Jersey Industrial Site Recovery Act at an MW facility in Hammonton, New Jersey and for 75% of any such costs between $250,000 and $5.5 million. In connection with the MW acquisition, MW achieved compliance with the Industrial Site Recovery Act by obtaining a Remediation in Progress waiver from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection based on the ongoing remediation of the site by a previous occupant. MW’s Rocky Mount, Virginia property is subject to an environmental investigation relating to contamination associated with an underground storage tank formerly located at the Rocky Mount, Virginia property. Liability for the underground storage tank contamination and related investigation has been previously assumed by U.S. Industries, Inc., pursuant to its indemnity obligation under the Stock Purchase Agreement dated August 11, 1995, whereby U.S. Industries, Inc. sold the stock of MW to Fenway Partners. As the successor in interest of Fenway Partners, we are similarly indemnified by U.S. Industries, Inc. U.S. Industries and MW are working to develop a course of action to address the site contamination that is acceptable to both companies and the Virginia regulatory authorities. Changes in environmental laws and regulations or in their enforcement, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or other liabilities relating to our properties and operations or the inability to enforce the indemnification obligations of Nortek, the MW sellers and U.S. Industries, Inc. could result in significant environmental liabilities which could adversely impact our operating performance. In addition, we might incur significant capital and other costs to comply with increasingly stringent United States or Canadian environmental laws or enforcement policies which would decrease our cash flow. Manufacturing or assembly realignments may result in a decrease in our short-term earnings, until the expected cost reductions are achieved, due to the costs of implementation. We continually review our manufacturing and assembly operations and sourcing capabilities. Effects of periodic manufacturing realignments and cost savings programs could result in a decrease in our short-term earnings until the expected cost reductions are achieved. Such programs may include the consolidation and integration of facilities, functions, systems and procedures. Such actions may not be accomplished as quickly as anticipated and the expected cost reductions may not be achieved or sustained. We rely on a variety of intellectual property rights. Any threat to, or impairment of, these rights could cause us to incur costs to defend these rights. As a company that manufactures and markets branded products, we rely heavily on trademark and service mark protection to protect our brands. We have a significant number of issued patents and rely on copyright protection for certain of our technologies. These protections may not adequately safeguard our intellectual property and we may incur significant costs to defend our intellectual property rights, which may harm our operating results. There is a risk that third parties, including our current competitors, will infringe on our intellectual property rights, in which case we would have to defend these rights. There is also a risk that third parties, including our current competitors, will claim that our products infringe on their intellectual property rights. These third parties may bring infringement claims against us or our customers, which may harm our operating results. We are controlled by our principal equity holder, which has the power to take unilateral action. Affiliates of, and companies managed by, CI Capital Partners LLC, formerly known as Caxton-Iseman Capital, LLC, including Caxton-Iseman (Ply Gem), L.P., Caxton-Iseman (Ply Gem) II L.P., and Frederick Iseman, control our affairs and policies. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of these equity holders could be in conflict with the interests of creditors, including the holders of the senior secured and subordinated notes. In addition, these equity holders may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to creditors, including holders of the senior secured and subordinated notes. 17 Increases in fuel costs could cause our cost of products sold to increase and net income to decrease. Increases in fuel costs can negatively impact our cost to deliver our products to our customers and thus increase our cost of products sold. If we are unable to increase the selling price of our products to our customers to cover any increases in fuel costs, net income may be adversely affected. The substantial level of our indebtedness may limit the cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business. We have substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $1,100.4 million of indebtedness outstanding, including $25.0 million of outstanding borrowings under our $175.0 million senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility (the “ABL Facility”). Our substantial amount of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations on the senior secured notes and senior subordinated notes; · make it more difficult to satisfy our obligations on our ABL Facility; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, such as capital expenditures, acquisitions and working capital; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; · expose us to fluctuations in the interest rate environment because the interest rates of our ABL Facility are at variable rates; and · limit our ability to borrow additional funds. We expect to obtain the money necessary to pay our expenses, fund working capital and capital expenditures, and to pay the interest on the senior secured notes, senior subordinated notes, and ABL Facility from operating cash flows and from Ply Gem Industries’ existing and available borrowings under its ABL Facility. Our ability to meet our expenses thus depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the industry in which we operate and competitive pressures. Our cash flow may not be sufficient to allow us to pay interest on our debt and to meet our other obligations. If we do not have enough cash flow, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets or borrow additional money. We may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including the ABL Facility and the indentures governing the senior secured notes and senior subordinated notes, may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. The failure to generate sufficient cash flow or to achieve such alternatives could reduce the value of the senior secured notes and senior subordinated notes and limit our ability to service our indebtedness. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could exacerbate further the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness, in the future. The terms of the ABL Facility and the indentures governing the senior secured notes and senior subordinated notes restrict, but do not completely prohibit, us from doing so. In addition, we may incur other liabilities that do not constitute indebtedness. If new debt or other liabilities are added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. 18 The terms of our debt covenants could limit how we conduct our business and our ability to raise additional funds. The agreements that govern the terms of our debt, including the indentures that govern the notes and the senior secured notes and the credit agreement that governs the ABL Facility, contain covenants that restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: · incur and guarantee indebtedness or issue equity interests of restricted subsidiaries; · repay subordinated indebtedness prior to its stated maturity; · pay dividends or make other distributions on or redeem or repurchase our stock; · issue capital stock; · make certain investments or acquisitions; · create liens; · sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies; · enter into certain transactions with stockholders and affiliates; · make capital expenditures; and · pay dividends, distributions or other payments from our subsidiaries. In addition, under the ABL Facility, if our excess availability is less than the greater of (a) 15% of the lesser of (i) the commitments and (ii) the borrowing base and (b) $20 million, we will be required to satisfy and maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio not less than 1.1 to 1.0. Our ability to meet the required fixed charge coverage ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet this ratio. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the ABL Facility. Moreover, the ABL Facility provides the lenders considerable discretion to impose reserves or availability blocks, which could materially impair the amount of borrowings that would otherwise be available to us. There can be no assurance that the lenders under the ABL Facility will not impose such actions during the term of the ABL Facility and further, were they to do so, the resulting impact of this action could materially and adversely impair our ability to make interest payments on our other debt. A breach of the covenants under the indenture that governs the senior secured notes or senior subordinated notes or under the credit agreement that governs our ABL Facility could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under our ABL Facility would permit the lenders under our ABL Facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our ABL Facility, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. In the event our lenders or noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we cannot assure that we and our subsidiaries would have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness. As a result of these restrictions, we may be: · limited in how we conduct our business; · unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or · unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. These restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our plans. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under such indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay or refinance our indebtedness, including the senior secured notes, the senior subordinated notes or our indebtedness under our ABL Facility. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we and our subsidiaries could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. 19 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. Item 