Item 1A. RISK FACTORS As a bank holding company, our earnings are dependent upon the performance of our bank as well as by business, economic and political conditions. Intermountain is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank. Our right to participate in the assets of the Bank upon the Bank’s liquidation, reorganization or otherwise will be subject to the claims of the Bank’s creditors, which will take priority except to the extent that we may be a creditor with a recognized claim. The Company is subject to certain restrictions on the amount of dividends that it may declare without prior regulatory approval. These restrictions may affect the amount of dividends the Company may declare for distribution to its shareholders in the future. Earnings are impacted by business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate. Business and economic conditions that negatively impact household or corporate incomes could decrease the demand for our products and increase the number of customers who fail to pay their loans. A downturn in the local economies or real estate markets could negatively impact our banking business. A downturn in the local economies or real estate markets could negatively impact our banking business. Because we primarily serve individuals and businesses located in northern, southwestern and southcentral Idaho, eastern Washington and southeastern Oregon, a significant portion of our total loan portfolio is originated in these areas or secured by real estate or other assets located in these areas. As a result of this geographic concentration the ability of customers to repay their loans, and consequently our results, are impacted by the economic and business conditions in our market areas. Any adverse economic or business developments or natural disasters in these areas could cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures our loans or could negatively affect the ability of borrowers to make payments of principal and interest on the underlying loans. In the event of such adverse development or natural disaster, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. Furthermore, current uncertain geopolitical trends and variable economic trends, including uncertainty regarding economic growth, inflation and unemployment, may negatively impact businesses in our markets. While the short-term and long-term effects of these events remain uncertain, they could adversely affect general economic conditions, consumer confidence, market liquidity or result in changes in interest rates, any of which could have a negative impact on the banking business. 20 Table of Contents Changes in market interest rates could adversely affect our earnings. Our earnings are impacted by changing market interest rates. Changes in market interest rates impact the level of loans, deposits and investments, the credit profile of existing loans and the rates received on loans and investment securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. One of our primary sources of income from operations is net interest income, which is equal to the difference between the interest income received on interest-earning assets (usually, loans and investment securities) and the interest expense incurred in connection with interest-bearing liabilities (usually, deposits and borrowings). These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, both domestic and foreign, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Net interest income can be affected significantly by changes in market interest rates. Changes in relative interest rates may reduce net interest income as the difference between interest income and interest expense decreases. Interest rates are currently rising and if interest rates continue to rise, the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings could increase more quickly than the amount of interest we receive on our loans, mortgage-related securities and investment securities. This could cause our profits to decrease. Rising interest rates would likely reduce the value of our investment securities and may decrease demand for loans and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay their loans. Increasing market interest rates may also depress property values, which could affect the value of collateral securing our loans. An increase in interest rates could also have a negative impact on our results of operations by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations. These circumstances could not only result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures and write-offs, but also necessitate further increases to the allowances for loan losses. In addition, fluctuations in interest rates may result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from depository institutions into direct investments that pay a higher rate of return and may affect the value of our investment securities and other interest-earning assets. Our cost of funds may increase because of general economic conditions, unfavorable conditions in the capital markets, interest rates and competitive pressures. We have traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are a cheaper source of funds than borrowings, because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. If, as a result of general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures, or other factors, our level of deposits decrease relative to our overall banking operation, we may have to rely more heavily on borrowings as a source of funds in the future, which may negatively impact net interest margin. Competition may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers at current levels. The banking and financial services businesses in our market areas are highly competitive. Competition in the banking, mortgage and finance industries may limit our ability to attract and retain customers. We face competition from other banking institutions, savings banks, credit unions and other financial institutions. We also compete with non-bank financial service companies within the states that we serve, and out of state financial intermediaries that have opened loan production offices or that solicit deposits in our market areas. There also has been a general consolidation of financial institutions in recent years, which results in new competitors and larger competitors in our market areas. In particular, our competitors include major financial companies whose greater resources may provide them a marketplace advantage. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits and the range and quality of services provided. Because we have fewer financial and other resources than larger institutions with which we compete, we may be limited in our ability to attract customers. In addition, some of the current commercial banking customers may seek alternative banking sources as they develop needs for credit facilities larger than we can accommodate. If we are unable to attract and retain customers, we may be unable to continue our loan and deposit growth, and our results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be negatively impacted. 21 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully implement our internal growth strategy. We have pursued and intend to continue to pursue an internal growth strategy, the success of which will depend primarily on generating an increasing level of loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels and terms without proportionate increases in non-interest expenses. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our internal growth strategy. Furthermore, the success of our growth strategy will depend on maintaining sufficient regulatory capital levels and on continued favorable economic conditions in our market areas. There are risks associated with potential acquisitions. We may make opportunistic acquisitions of other banks or financial institutions from time to time that further our business strategy. These acquisitions could involve numerous risks including lower than expected performance or higher than expected costs, difficulties in the integration of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, changes in relationships with customers and the potential loss of key employees. Any acquisitions will be subject to regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such approvals. We may not be successful in identifying further acquisition candidates, integrating acquired institutions or preventing deposit erosion or loan quality deterioration at acquired institutions. Competition for acquisitions in our market area is highly competitive, and we may not be able to acquire other institutions on attractive terms. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing future acquisitions, or if such transactions are completed, that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses into our operations. Our ability to grow may be limited if we are unable to successfully make future acquisitions. We may not be able to replace key members of management or attract and retain qualified relationship managers in the future. We depend on the services of existing management to carry out our business and investment strategies. As we expand, we will need to continue to attract and retain additional management and other qualified staff. In particular, because we plan to continue to expand our locations, products and services, we will need to continue to attract and retain qualified commercial banking personnel and investment advisors. Competition for such personnel is significant in our geographic market areas. The loss of the services of any management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial conditions and prospects. The allowance for loan losses may be inadequate. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We, therefore, may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Increases in this allowance result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions or a decrease in asset quality, management determines that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses are necessary, we may incur additional expenses. Our loans are primarily secured by real estate, including a concentration of properties located in northern, southwestern and southcentral Idaho, eastern Washington and southeastern Oregon. If an earthquake, volcanic eruption or other natural disaster were to occur in one of our major market areas, loan losses could occur that are not incorporated in the existing allowance for loan losses. 22 Table of Contents We are expanding our lending activities in riskier areas. We have identified commercial real estate and commercial business loans as areas for increased lending emphasis. While increased lending diversification is expected to increase interest income, non-residential loans carry greater risk of payment default than residential real estate loans. As the volume of these loans increase, credit risk increases. In the event of substantial borrower defaults, our provision for loan losses would increase and therefore, earnings would be reduced. As the Company lends in diversified areas such as commercial real estate, commercial, agricultural, commercial construction and residential construction, the Company may incur additional risk if one lending area experienced difficulties due to economic conditions. Our stock price can be volatile. Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, including actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results, recommendations by securities analysts and news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. Other factors include new technology used or services offered by our competitors; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; and changes in government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as future terrorist attacks and activities, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of our operating results. 23 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 