Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We depend on Martin Cohen, our Executive Chairman, and Robert Steers, our Chief Executive Officer, and other members of our senior management and the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on us. Effective January 1, 2014, Mr. Cohen became the Executive Chairman of the Company and Mr. Steers became the sole Chief Executive Officer of the Company. We depend on the efforts and strategic leadership of Mr. Cohen and Mr. Steers and other members of our senior management, including Joseph M. Harvey, our President and Chief Investment Officer. Their knowledge and investment expertise has been critical to the growth and success of the Company, and the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on us.Our success depends on our key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services.Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and develop highly skilled and qualified portfolio managers, investment analysts, marketing and client services personnel and other key professionals, many of whom have specialized expertise and extensive experience in our industry and form the foundation of the Company. Our investment professionals are critical in developing new products and strategies and building and maintaining strong relationships with our clients. Strong financial services professionals are in demand, and we face intense competition for highly qualified personnel. Many of our key employees do not have employment agreements and generally may terminate their employment with us at any time. In order to retain, develop or replace our key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation or incur additional expenses, which could result in a decrease in our net income. In addition, the loss of investment and client services personnel who are critical to maintaining our relationships with our clients could jeopardize our relationships with certain clients, and result in the loss of such accounts. We may not be successful in our efforts to retain key personnel. The loss of the services of our key personnel or the inability to attract or develop replacement or additional qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.A decline in the prices of securities will likely lead to a decline in our revenue and earnings. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from the investment advisory and administration fees we receive from our clients. These fees are primarily based on the market value of the assets and, in some limited cases, performance fees expressed as a percentage of the returns earned on the assets underlying the agreements that govern the fee calculations. A decline in the market value of the assets or the performance of the assets, as the case may be, will result in a decrease in the fees that we earn. The securities markets are highly volatile, and securities prices may increase or decrease for many reasons, including economic, financial or political events. Accordingly, a decline in the price of the securities in which we invest on behalf of our clients generally, and real estate securities in particular, will likely cause our revenue and earnings to decline.A general decline in the performance of securities in the real estate sector will likely have an adverse effect on the assets we manage and our revenue. As of December 31, 2013, 57% of the assets we managed were concentrated in U.S. real estate securities and 13% were concentrated in non-U.S. real estate securities. Real estate securities and real property investments owned by the issuers of real estate securities are subject to varying degrees of risk. The returns from investments in real estate securities depend on the amount of income and capital appreciation generated by the related properties. Income and real estate values may be adversely affected by, among other things, the cost of compliance with applicable laws (e.g., Americans with Disabilities Act and tax laws), interest rate levels, and the availability of financing. If the properties do not generate sufficient income to meet operating expenses, the income and the ability of a real estate company to make payments of any interest and principal on debt securities or any dividends on common or preferred stocks will be adversely affected. In addition, real property and loans on real property may be subject to the quality of credit extended and defaults by borrowers and tenants. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, the ability of real estate companies to vary their portfolios promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions is limited. A real estate company may also have joint venture investments in certain properties and, consequently, its ability to control decisions relating to such properties may be limited. Declines in the performance of real estate securities will likely reduce the value of the assets we manage and our revenue. 8Increases in our fixed costs and other expenses may adversely affect our operating margin. Our operating margin may be adversely affected by increases in our fixed costs and other expenses, which may vary from period to period. Our fixed costs and other expenses may fluctuate as a result of variations in the level of compensation, expenses incurred to support distribution of our investment products, and expenses incurred to enhance our infrastructure, including technology and compliance. Increases in our fixed costs and other expenses or our inability to sufficiently reduce our costs to offset any decreases in revenue relating to changes in our assets under management may adversely affect our operating margin.Our growth may be constrained by the limited size and number of issuers in the real estate securities market, as well as real estate investment trust ownership restrictions. Real estate securities investment continues to play an important role in the overall prospects of our business. Our ability to continue our growth in real estate securities depends in part on growth in the size and number of issuers in the real estate securities market, particularly in the United States. Further, in order for the REITs in which our advisory portfolios invest to continue to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% in value of the REIT's outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals. To assure that five or fewer individuals do not beneficially own more than 50% in value of the REIT's outstanding capital stock, the REIT's formation documents generally contain restrictions on ownership of the company's outstanding capital stock, common stock, and/or preferred stock, which vary from company to company. While certain REITs may consider it appropriate to waive or adjust these ownership limitations to allow greater investment, these REITs may change or discontinue such practices, which could limit our ability to invest in those companies.These ownership limitations may restrict the assets under management in our REIT advisory portfolios. Due to these constraints, we have in the past and may in the future stop accepting new assets in real estate securities institutional account portfolios in certain strategies and in certain open-end mutual funds. We also may be constrained in our ability to sponsor new closed-end mutual funds that invest primarily or significantly in U.S. real estate securities. Such constraints may impair our ability to increase the assets we manage and our revenue. Failure of the REITs in which we invest to qualify as REITs may adversely affect the assets we manage and our revenue. REITs are subject to a highly technical and complex set of provisions in the Internal Revenue Code. We may invest in a real estate company which purports to be a REIT and such company may fail to qualify as a REIT. In the event of any such unexpected failure to qualify as a REIT, the company would be subject to corporate-level taxation, significantly reducing the return on any investments in such company. In addition, some of the REITs in which we invest could fail to qualify for tax free pass-through of income under the Internal Revenue Code, or to maintain their exemptions from registration under the Investment Company Act. The occurrence of such events may adversely affect the value of the assets we manage and reduce our revenue.Our assets under management in closed-end mutual funds may decrease over time as a result of market conditions and the utilization of leverage.Market conditions may preclude us from increasing the assets we manage in closed-end mutual funds. A significant portion of our growth in the assets we manage has resulted from public offerings of securities of closed-end mutual funds. The market conditions for these offerings may not be as favorable now or in the future, which could adversely impact our ability to grow the assets we manage and our revenue.In addition, certain of the closed-end mutual funds managed by the Company utilize leverage in the form of bank financing, which in the aggregate amounted to $2.4 billion as of December 31, 2013.To the extent the closed-end mutual funds managed by the Company elect or are required by regulation or the terms of their bank financing to reduce leverage and repay the bank financing, the funds may need to liquidate investments. Liquidation at times of adverse economic conditions may decrease the Company's assets under management and our revenue.Our investment advisory and administration agreements are subject to termination or non-renewal.We derive a significant portion of our revenue from investment advisory and administrative fees received pursuant to our investment advisory agreements. As a result, receipt of our fees is contingent upon the continuation of such agreements. Our investment advisory agreements are generally terminable upon 60 or fewer days’ notice. Institutional clients and individual investors, and firms with which we have strategic alliances, may terminate their relationships with us, reduce the aggregate amount of the assets we manage or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different fee structures for any 9of a number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates and financial market performance. Under the Investment Company Act and the Advisers Act, each of our investment advisory agreements automatically terminates upon its “assignment.” A sale of a sufficient number of shares of our common stock may be deemed an “assignment” in certain circumstances and may trigger a termination of the agreement. In addition, each investment advisory agreement, including the fees payable thereunder, with a mutual fund is also subject to annual approval by a majority of the directors of the mutual fund’s board who are not “interested persons” as defined by the Investment Company Act, which approval may not be granted. If any of our investment advisory or administration agreements are terminated, not renewed, or amended to reduce the fees, our financial results could be adversely affected.Our clients may withdraw the assets we manage on short notice, making our future client and revenue base unpredictable. Open-end mutual fund investors may redeem their investments at any time without prior notice. Poor performance relative to other asset management firms tends to result in decreased purchases of mutual fund shares, increased redemptions of mutual fund shares, and the loss of clients. In a declining stock market, the pace of mutual fund redemptions could accelerate. While not subject to redemption, the closed-end funds that we manage may shrink in size due to repurchases of shares in open-market transactions or pursuant to tender offers. Stockholder activists may attempt to force a closed-end mutual fund for which we serve as the investment adviser to tender for their shares, to convert to an open-end fund, to liquidate or take other actions that may adversely affect the fees we receive from such closed-end mutual funds. The decrease in revenue that could result from any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business.A significant portion of our revenue for 2013 was derived from a single institutional client.At December 31, 2013, our largest institutional client, which holds accounts across numerous strategies and in subadvisory and model-based assignments and products, represented approximately 14% of our total revenue for 2013. Approximately 48% of the institutional account assets we managed and approximately 24% of the total assets we managed was derived from this client. In addition, approximately 16% of our assets under advisement through a model-based strategy was derived from this client. Loss of, or significant withdrawal from, any of these accounts would reduce our revenue.Poor investment performance of our products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Our success in the asset management business is dependent on the investment performance of our products. Relatively poor performance tends to result in decreased sales, increased withdrawals and redemptions in the case of open-end mutual funds, and in the loss of separately managed accounts, with corresponding decreases in revenue. In addition, we believe that our investment performance is a key factor for the future growth of our open-end mutual funds. Failure of our investment products to perform well relative to our competitors could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and future growth.A rise in interest rates could negatively impact our revenue and net income. Our asset management business could be negatively impacted by rising interest rates. A rapid increase in interest rates could cause the price of certain REITs and other securities in our clients' portfolios to decline. In addition, a rapid increase in interest rates could negatively impact net flows into open-end mutual funds and institutional accounts and our ability to offer new closed-end mutual funds. An increase in interest rates could negatively affect our revenue and net income. Changes to distribution arrangements with third-party intermediaries could have a material adverse effect on our business. In recent years, a significant portion of the growth we have experienced in the mutual fund assets we manage has been through assets gathered from investors through third-party intermediaries. Our ability to distribute our mutual funds and subadvisory services is dependent on our access to the client bases and product platforms of national and regional securities firms, banks, insurance companies, defined contribution plan administrators and other intermediaries which generally offer competing investment products. The structure and terms of these distribution arrangements with intermediaries, including fees paid by us or our mutual funds to intermediaries to assist with distribution efforts and the ability of our mutual funds to participate in these intermediary platforms, are subject to changes driven by market competition and regulatory developments. To a lesser extent, our institutional account asset management business depends on recommendations by consultants, financial planners and other professional advisers, as well as our existing clients. Our ability to access these channels on favorable terms may be reduced or eliminated.10Loss of any of these third-party distribution channels, or changes to their structure and terms, and resulting potential reduction in our ability to access clients and investors through existing and new distribution channels, could adversely affect our results of operations and business prospects. A decrease in the amount of fees that our clients pay for our services would have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability.There has been a trend toward lower fees in some segments of the asset management business. In order for us to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to provide clients with investment returns and service that will encourage them to be willing to pay such fees. In addition, the SEC has adopted rules that are designed to improve mutual fund corporate governance. These rules could result in further downward pressure on investment advisory fees in the mutual fund industry. Accordingly, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure or take advantage of scheduled fee increases. Fee reductions on existing or future new business would have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. We may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy.Our business strategy involves diversifying our asset management business to include products and services outside the U.S. real estate securities area. As part of the implementation of our strategy, we have added a new commodities team and have expanded our presence outside of the United States. This has entailed hiring additional portfolio managers in areas in which we did not have significant experience and opening additional international offices. The success of our business strategy and future growth is contingent upon our ability to continue to hire portfolio managers to implement new strategies and our ability to successfully manage multiple offices and navigate legal and regulatory systems outside the United States. In the future, we may not be successful in locating and hiring additional portfolio managers and we may not have sufficient resources to expand our presence geographically.We could suffer losses in earnings or revenue if our reputation is harmed. Our reputation is important to the success of our business. We believe that the Cohen & Steers brand has been, and continues to be, well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brand, like our business, is based in part on trust and confidence. If our reputation is harmed, existing clients may reduce amounts held in, or withdraw entirely from, funds or accounts that we advise, or funds or accounts may terminate their management agreements with us, which could reduce the amount of assets under management. In addition, reputational harm may cause us to lose current employees and we may be unable to continue to attract new ones with similar qualifications, motivations or skills. If we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, successfully and promptly the underlying causes of any reputational harm, we may be unsuccessful in repairing any existing harm to our reputation and our future business prospects would likely be affected. The loss of either client relationships or personnel could reduce our earnings and revenue.Failure to comply with client contractual requirements and/or guidelines could result in damage awards against the Company and loss of revenue due to client terminations. When clients retain the Company to manage assets or provide products or services on their behalf, they specify guidelines or contractual requirements that the Company is required to observe in the provision of its services. A failure to comply with these guidelines or contractual requirements could result in damage to the Company's reputation or clients seeking to recover losses, withdrawing their funds or terminating their contracts, which could cause the Company's revenue and earnings to decline. Failure to manage our credit risk could adversely affect our business. In the course of conducting our business, the Company, and the funds and accounts that it manages, have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry. Many of these transactions expose the Company or the funds and accounts that we manage to credit risk in the event of default by a counterparty or client. If we are unsuccessful in managing our exposure to credit risk, our revenues and earnings may be adversely affected. Our expansion into new international markets and products and services has increased our operational and regulatory risks.We have expanded our international business activities and product offerings over the past several years, which has included the addition of a commodities strategy. As a result of such expansion, we face increased market, operational, regulatory, compliance, reputation and foreign exchange rate risks. The failure of our compliance and internal control systems 11to properly manage such risks, or of our operating infrastructure to support such expansion, could result in operational failures and regulatory fines or sanctions. Regulations restricting the use of “soft dollars” could result in increased expenses. On behalf of our mutual fund and investment advisory clients, we make decisions to buy and sell securities for each portfolio, select broker/dealers to execute trades and negotiate brokerage commission rates. In connection with these transactions, we may receive “soft dollar credits” from broker/dealers that have the effect of reducing certain of our expenses. If the ability of asset managers to use “soft dollars” is restricted or eliminated, our operating expenses may increase.The asset management industry is intensely competitive. Our funds and institutional accounts compete against an ever-increasing number of investment products and services sold to the public by investment management companies, investment dealers, banks, insurance companies and others. Many institutions competing with us have greater resources than we do. We compete with other providers of investment products on the basis of the diversity of products offered, the investment performance of such products, scope and quality of services, fees charged, the level and type of financial intermediary compensation, the manner in which such products are marketed and distributed, reputation and the ability to develop new investment strategies and products to meet the changing needs of investors. In the past, we have lost accounts or experienced reductions in assets under management due to decisions by our clients to reallocate their assets to different asset classes, modify their investment strategies or distribution rate for portfolios we sub-advise, or move their assets to our competitors. In the future, we could lose accounts under these or other circumstances, such as adverse market conditions or poor investment performance. In the event that competitors charge lower fees for substantially similar products, we may also be forced to compete on the basis of price in order to attract and retain clients. To the extent that current or potential clients decide to invest in products sponsored by our competitors, sales of our products as well as our revenue could decline.Failure to maintain adequate infrastructure could impede our ability to support business growth. We continue to anticipate significant growth in our business activities, both domestically and internationally. We must maintain adequate infrastructure to support this growth, including technological capacity, data centers, backup facilities and sufficient space for expanding staff levels. The failure to maintain an infrastructure commensurate with our expansion, particularly our international expansion, could impede our growth.Failure to implement effective information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities could disrupt operations and cause financial losses that could result in a decrease in our earnings and stock price. We are dependent on the effectiveness of our information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them. An externally caused information security incident, such as a hacker attack, virus or worm, or an internally caused issue, such as failure to control access to sensitive systems, could materially interrupt business operations or cause disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential client or competitive information and could result in material financial loss, loss of competitive position, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal liability, which, in turn, could cause a decline in our earnings or stock price.The failure of a key vendor to fulfill its obligations to the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its products. We depend on a number of key vendors for various fund administration, accounting, custody and transfer agent roles and other operational needs. The failure or inability of the Company to diversify its sources for key services or the failure of any key vendors to fulfill their obligations could lead to operational issues for the Company and certain of its products, which could result in financial losses for the Company and its clients.Risks Related to our Common Stock A majority of our common stock is owned by our Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, whose interests may differ from those of other stockholders. Our Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer beneficially owned approximately 53% of our common stock as of March 7, 2014. As long as our Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer own a majority of our common stock, they will have the ability to, among other things:•elect all of the members of our board of directors and thereby control the management and affairs of the Company;12•determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders; and•preclude any unsolicited acquisition of us and, consequently, adversely affect the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium on their shares. The interests of our Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer may differ from those of other stockholders in instances where, for example, management compensation is being determined or where an unsolicited acquisition of us could result in a change in our management. The concentration of beneficial ownership in our Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer may limit the ability of our other stockholders to influence the affairs of the Company.Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the issuance of additional shares will dilute your percentage ownership in the Company. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, who beneficially owned, in the aggregate, 23,700,687 shares of our common stock as of March 7, 2014, may sell shares of our common stock in the open market, subject to any restrictions imposed by U.S. federal securities laws on sales by affiliates.In addition, in connection with our initial public offering in 2004, we entered into a Registration Rights Agreement with our Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and certain of their affiliates which requires us to register under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), shares of our common stock (and other securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of common stock) held by them under certain circumstances. In August 2012, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3 covering (i) the resale of an aggregate of 12,000,000 shares owned by our Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and (ii) the offer and sale of 10,000,000 shares by us to the public. The registration statement was declared effective by the SEC in September 2012. We do not currently intend to offer any of the shares we registered to the public. However, on or prior to expiration of the registration statement in September 2015, we plan to file another registration statement covering the registered shares and may offer these shares to the public. Any additional shares that we issue will dilute your percentage ownership in the Company.Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent a change in control of us, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain certain anti-takeover provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company without negotiating with our board of directors. Such provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for the Company’s securities. Certain of these provisions allow the Company to issue preferred stock with rights more senior to those of the common stock, impose various procedural and other requirements which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions and set forth rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings.We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or other unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess acquisition proposals. However, these provisions apply even if an acquisition proposal may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition. In the event that our board of directors determines that a potential business combination transaction would be beneficial to the Company and its stockholders, such stockholders may elect to sell their shares in the Company and the trading price of our common stock could decrease.Regulatory and Legal Risks We are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and internationally. Our business is subject to extensive regulation in the United States and internationally. See the discussion under “Item 1 - Business - Regulation.” Violation of applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, temporary or permanent prohibition of the engagement in certain activities, reputational harm and related client terminations, suspensions of personnel or revocation of their licenses, suspension or termination of investment adviser or broker-dealer registrations, or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition and cause our earnings or stock price to decline. 13We may be adversely impacted by legal and regulatory changes in the United States and globally. Our regulatory environment is frequently altered by new regulations and revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing regulations. Future changes could require us to modify or curtail our investment offerings and business or impact our expenses and profitability.In the United States, certain of the newly adopted and proposed regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act could adversely impact the operation of our business. Regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act relating to regulation of swaps and derivatives could impact the manner in which Company-advised funds and accounts use and trade swaps and other derivatives, and could significantly increase the costs of derivatives trading conducted by the Company on behalf of its clients. Compliance with certain of these regulations require the development and implementation of new compliance mechanisms to monitor compliance with SEC and CFTC rules concerning, among other things, the registration and regulation of CPOs (and the accompanying registration and regulation of such entities by the NFA), the registration of counterparties that are swap dealers and other counterparties that are major participants in the swap markets, and requirements concerning mandatory clearing of certain swap transactions. The Company, on behalf of its clients, is also preparing for mandated central clearing of swaps and mandated trading venue requirements. The SEC, the IRS and the CFTC each continue to review the use of futures and derivatives by mutual funds, which could result in regulations that further limit the use of futures and derivatives by mutual funds. If adopted, these limitations could require the Company to change certain mutual fund business practices or to register additional entities with the CFTC, which could result in additional costs and/or restrictions.In addition, the Company has begun reporting certain information about its private funds to the SEC and certain information about a number of its commodity pools to the CFTC pursuant to systemic risk reporting requirements adopted by both agencies, which have required, and will continue to require, investments in people and systems to assure timely and accurate reporting. Legislators, regulators, tax authorities and others worldwide continue to explore, on their own and in response to demands from the investment community, increased regulation related to private pools of capital, including changes with respect to investor eligibility, certain limitations on trading activities, marketing activities, the scope of anti-fraud protections and a variety of other matters. We may be adversely affected by new legislation or rule-making or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing rules and regulations imposed by various regulators.In addition, we are subject to various laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate outside of the United States. The European Commission is in the process of formulating rules and regulations under MiFID II and MiFIR. These, together with the changes contemplated by the AIFMD, will have direct and indirect effects on our operations in the European Economic Area, including marketing restrictions and increased compliance, disclosure and other obligations, which could impact our ability to expand in these markets.The foregoing regulatory changes and other reforms, including changes to laws affecting the tax status of REITs, could also lead to business disruptions, could adversely impact the value of assets in which the Company has invested on behalf of clients and/or via seed or co-investments, and, to the extent these regulations strictly control the activities of financial services firms, could make it more difficult for the Company to conduct certain business activities or distinguish itself from competitors. See “Item 1 - Business - Regulation” above for additional information regarding certain laws and regulations that affect the Company's business. Failure to comply with the Advisers Act and the Investment Company Act and related regulations could result in substantial harm to our reputation and earnings. Certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC under the Advisers Act and the Company's U.S. mutual funds are registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act. The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations and fiduciary duties on registered investment advisers, including record-keeping, operating and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. The Investment Company Act imposes similar obligations, as well as additional detailed operational and compliance requirements, on investment advisers to registered investment companies. The failure of any of the relevant subsidiaries to comply with the Advisers Act or the Investment Company Act could cause the SEC to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of either of these acts, including censure, termination of an investment adviser's registration or prohibition to serve as adviser to SEC-registered funds, and could lead to litigation by investors in those funds or harm to the Company's reputation, any of which could cause its earnings or stock price to decline. 14Failure to comply with ERISA regulations could result in penalties and cause the Company's earnings or stock price to decline. The Company is subject to ERISA and to regulations promulgated thereunder, insofar as we act as a “fiduciary” under ERISA with respect to benefit plan clients. ERISA and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code impose duties on persons who act as fiduciaries under ERISA, prohibit specified transactions involving ERISA plan clients and provide monetary penalties for violations of these prohibitions. The failure of any of the relevant subsidiaries to comply with these requirements could result in significant penalties that could reduce the Company's earnings or cause its stock price to decline. Our involvement in legal proceedings could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Many aspects of our business involve risks of legal liability. The Company has in the past, and may in the future, be named as a defendant in litigation arising in connection with our business activities. From time to time, we receive subpoenas or other requests for information from various U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and regulatory authorities and third parties in connection with certain industry-wide, company-specific or other investigations or proceedings. Additionally, certain of the investment funds that the Company manages may become subject to lawsuits, any of which could potentially harm the investment returns of the applicable fund or result in the Company being liable to the applicable fund for any resulting damages.The tax treatment of certain of our funds involves the interpretation of complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no precedent may be available and may be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative change and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.The U.S. federal income tax treatment of our funds depends in some instances on determinations of fact and interpretations of complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. U.S. federal income tax rules are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Department of Treasury, frequently resulting in revised interpretations of established concepts, statutory changes, revisions to regulations and other modifications and interpretations. Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof could cause us to change our investments and commitments, affect the tax considerations of an investment in us and change the character or treatment of portions of our income. In addition, the Company may be required to make certain assumptions when electing a particular tax treatment. However, those assumptions may not be in compliance with all aspects of applicable tax requirements. It is possible that the IRS will assert successfully that the assumptions used by us do not satisfy the technical requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and/or Treasury Regulations and could require items of income, gain, deductions, loss or credit, including interest deductions, be adjusted, reallocated or disallowed in a manner that adversely affects our clients.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has no unresolved SEC comments. 