Item 1A. RISK FACTORSRisks Associated with Our BusinessDownturns in the home repair and remodeling and new construction sectors or the economy and the availability of consumer credit could adversely impact our end users and lower the demand for, and pricing of, our products, which in turn could cause our net sales and net income to decrease.Our performance is dependent to a significant extent upon the levels of home repair and remodeling and new construction spending, which declined significantly in the 2009 through 2011 period as compared to 2008 recovering slightly in 2012 compared to historical levels and are affected by such factors as interest rates, inflation, consumer confidence, unemployment and the availability of consumer credit.Our performance is also dependent upon consumers having the ability to finance home repair and remodeling projects and/or the purchase of new homes. The ability of consumers to finance these purchases is affected by such factors as new and existing home prices, homeowners’ equity values, interest rates and home foreclosures, which in turn could result in a tightening of lending standards by financial institutions and reduce the ability of some consumers to finance home purchases or repair and remodeling expenditures. Trends such as declining home values, increased home foreclosures and tightening of credit standards by lending institutions, have negatively impacted the home repair and remodeling and the new construction sectors. If these credit market trends continue or worsen, our net sales and net income may be adversely affected.We face competition from other exterior building products manufacturers and alternative building materials. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose customers and our sales could decline.We compete with other national and regional manufacturers of exterior building products. Some of these companies are larger and have greater financial resources than we do. Accordingly, these competitors may be better equipped to withstand changes in conditions in the industries in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. These competitors could take a greater share of sales and cause us to lose business from our customers. Additionally, our products face competition from alternative materials, such as wood, metal, fiber cement and masonry in siding, and wood in windows. An increase in competition from other exterior building products manufacturers and alternative building materials could cause us to lose our customers and lead to decreases in net sales. Changes in the costs and availability of raw materials, especially PVC resin and aluminum, can decrease our profit margin by increasing our costs.Our principal raw materials, PVC resin and aluminum, have been subject to rapid price changes in the past. While we have historically been able to substantially pass on significant PVC resin and aluminum cost increases through price increases to our customers, our results of operations for individual quarters can be and have been hurt by a delay between the time of PVC resin and aluminum cost increases and price increases in our products. While we expect that any significant future PVC resin and aluminum cost increases will be offset in part or whole over time by price increases to our customers, we may not be able to pass on any future price increases.Certain of our customers have been expanding and may continue to expand through consolidation and internal growth, which may increase their buying power, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial position.Certain of our important customers are large companies with significant buying power. In addition, potential further consolidation in the distribution channels could enhance the ability of certain of our customers to seek more favorable terms, including pricing, for the products that they purchase from us. Accordingly, our ability to maintain or raise prices in the future may be limited, including during periods of raw material and other cost increases. If we are forced to reduce prices or to maintain prices during periods of increased costs, or if we lose customers because of pricing or other methods of competition, our revenues, operating results and financial position may be materially and adversely affected.12Table of ContentsBecause we depend on a core group of significant customers, our sales, cash flows from operations and results of operations may decline if our key customers reduce the amount of products that they purchase from us.Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 45.9% of our net sales in the year ended December 31, 2012. Our largest customer distributes our products within its building products distribution business, and accounted for approximately 10.5% of our consolidated 2012 net sales. We expect a small number of customers to continue to account for a substantial portion of our net sales for the foreseeable future.The loss of, or a significant adverse change in our relationships with our largest customer or any other major customer could cause a material decrease in our net sales. The loss of, or a reduction in orders from, any significant customers, losses arising from customers’ disputes regarding shipments, fees, merchandise condition or related matters, or our inability to collect accounts receivable from any major retail customer could cause a decrease in our net income and our cash flow. In addition, revenue from customers that have accounted for significant revenue in past periods, individually or as a group, may not continue, or if continued, may not reach or exceed historical levels in any period.Our business is seasonal and can be affected by inclement weather conditions that could affect the timing of the demand for our products and cause reduced profit margins when such conditions exist.Markets for our products are seasonal and can be affected by inclement weather conditions. Historically, our business has experienced increased sales in the second and third quarters of the year due to increased construction during those periods. Because much of our overhead and operating expenses are spread ratably throughout the year, our operating profits tend to be lower in the first and fourth quarters. Inclement weather conditions can affect the timing of when our products are applied or installed, causing reduced profit margins when such conditions exist.Increases in union organizing activity and work stoppages at our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers could delay or impede our production, reduce sales of our products and increase our costs.Our financial performance is affected by the cost of labor. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 14.5% of our employees were represented by labor unions. We are subject to the risk that strikes or other types of conflicts with personnel may arise or that we may become a subject of union organizing activity. Furthermore, some of our direct and indirect suppliers have unionized work forces. Strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by these suppliers could result in slowdowns or closures of facilities where components of our products are manufactured. Any interruption in the production or delivery of our products could reduce sales of our products and increase our costs.Our ability to operate and our growth potential could be materially and adversely affected if we cannot employ, train and retain qualified personnel at a competitive cost.Many of the products that we manufacture and assemble require manual processes in plant environments. We believe that our success depends upon our ability to employ, train and retain qualified personnel with the ability to design, manufacture, and assemble these products. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase our skilled labor force as the housing market recovers in the United States and Western Canada. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our qualified labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. In addition, our ability to quickly and effectively train additional workforce to handle the increased volume and production while minimizing labor inefficiencies and maintaining product quality will be a strategic initiative in a housing market recovery. If either of these events were to occur, our cost structure could increase, our margins could decrease, and any growth potential could be impaired.13Table of ContentsWe may be subject to claims arising from the operations of our various businesses arising from periods prior to the dates we acquired them. Our ability to seek indemnification from the former owners of our subsidiaries may be limited, in which case, we would be liable for these claims.We have acquired all of our subsidiaries, including Ply Gem Industries, MWM Holding, AWC Holding Company, MHE, and Pacific Windows, and substantially all of the assets of Ply Gem Stone, in the last several years. We may be subject to claims or liabilities arising from the ownership or operation of our subsidiaries for the periods prior to our acquisition of them, including environmental liabilities. These claims or liabilities could be significant. Our ability to seek indemnification from the former owners of our subsidiaries for these claims or liabilities is limited by various factors, including the specific limitations contained in the respective acquisition agreement and the financial ability of the former owners to satisfy such claims or liabilities. If we are unable to enforce our indemnification rights against the former owners or if the former owners are unable to satisfy their obligations for any reason, including because of their current financial position, we could be held liable for the costs or obligations associated with such claims or liabilities, which could adversely affect our operating performance. We could face potential product liability claims, including class action claims, relating to products we manufacture.We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims, including class action claims, in the event that the use of any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. In the event that any of our products proves to be defective, among other things, we may be responsible for damages related to any defective products and we may be required to recall or redesign such products. Because of the long useful life of our products, it is possible that latent defects might not appear for several years. Any insurance we maintain may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. Further, any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could cause our sales to decline, or increase our costs.We are dependent on certain key personnel, the loss of whom could materially affect our financial performance and prospects.Our continued success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our senior management and certain key employees. To encourage the retention of certain key executives, we have entered into various equity-based compensation agreements with our senior executives, including Messrs. Robinette, Poe, Wayne, Buckley, and Morstad, designed to encourage their retention. Each member of our senior management team has substantial experience and expertise in our industry and has made significant contributions to our growth and success. We do face the risk, however, that members of our senior management may not continue in their current positions and the loss of their services could cause us to lose customers and reduce our net sales, lead to employee morale problems and/or the loss of key employees, or cause disruptions to our production. Also, we may be unable to find qualified individuals to replace any of the senior executive officers who leave our company.Interruptions in deliveries of raw materials or finished goods could adversely affect our production and increase our costs, thereby decreasing our profitability.Our dependency upon regular deliveries from suppliers means that interruptions or stoppages in such deliveries could adversely affect our operations until arrangements with alternate suppliers could be made. If any of our suppliers were unable to deliver materials to us for an extended period of time, as the result of financial difficulties, catastrophic events affecting their facilities or other factors beyond our control, or if we were unable to negotiate acceptable terms for the supply of materials with these or alternative suppliers, our business could suffer. We may not be able to find acceptable alternatives, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs for us. Even if acceptable alternatives were found, the process of locating and securing such alternatives might be disruptive to our business. Extended unavailability of a necessary raw material or finished goods could cause us to cease manufacturing one or more of our products for a period of time.14Table of ContentsEnvironmental requirements may impose significant costs and liabilities on us.Our facilities are subject to numerous United States and Canadian federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to pollution and the protection of the environment, including those governing emissions to air, discharges to water, use, storage and transport of hazardous materials, storage, treatment and disposal of waste, remediation of contaminated sites and protection of worker health and safety. From time to time, our facilities are subject to investigation by governmental regulators. In addition, we have been identified as one of many potentially responsible parties for contamination present at certain offsite locations to which we or our predecessors are alleged to have sent hazardous materials for recycling or disposal. We may be held liable, or incur fines or penalties in connection with such requirements or liabilities for, among other things, releases of hazardous substances occurring on or emanating from current or formerly owned or operated properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or for known or newly-discovered contamination at any of our properties from activities conducted by previous occupants. The amount of such liability, fine or penalty may be material. Certain environmental laws impose strict, and under certain circumstances joint and several, liability for the cost of addressing releases of hazardous substances upon certain classes of persons, including site owners or operators and persons that disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances at contaminated sites.Under the stock purchase agreement governing the Ply Gem acquisition, our former parent, Nortek, has agreed to indemnify us, subject to certain limitations, for environmental liabilities arising from our former ownership or operation of subsidiaries or properties where such ownership or operation ceased prior to the completion of the Ply Gem acquisition and for certain other liabilities. Our ability to seek indemnification from Nortek is, however, limited by the strength of Nortek’s financial condition, which could change in the future, as well as by limits to the indemnity.We are currently involved in environmental proceedings involving Ply Gem Canada and Alberta Environment (arising from subsurface contamination discovered at our Calgary, Alberta property), and we may in the future be subject to environmental proceedings involving Thermal-Gard, Inc. (arising from groundwater contamination in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania), Kroy Building Products, Inc. (relating to contamination in a drinking water well in York, Nebraska) and Mastic Home Exteriors, Inc. (relating to a closed landfill site in Sidney, Ohio). Under the stock purchase agreement governing the Ply Gem acquisition, Nortek has agreed to indemnify us fully for any liability in connection with the Punxsutawney contamination. Alcan Aluminum Corporation assumed the obligation to indemnify us with respect to certain liabilities for environmental contamination of the York property occurring prior to 1994 when it sold the property to us in 1999. Our former subsidiary, Hoover Treated Wood Products, Inc., is involved in an environmental proceeding with the Georgia Department of Natural Resources in connection with a contaminated landfill site in Thomson, Georgia. While we had assumed an obligation to indemnify the purchaser of our former subsidiary when we sold Hoover Treated Wood Products, Inc., our obligation has been novated and assumed by Nortek. Our ability to seek indemnification or enforce other obligations is, however, limited by the strength of the financial condition of the indemnitor or responsible party, which could change in the future, as well as by limits to any such indemnities or obligations.In 2011, MW Manufacturers Inc. (“MW”), a subsidiary of MWM Holding, entered into an Administrative Order on Consent with the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), Region III, under Section 3008(h) of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), primarily relating to contamination associated with an underground storage tank formerly located at its Rocky Mount, Virginia property. As part of the Administrative Order on Consent, MW provided the EPA with a preliminary cost estimate of approximately $1.8 million over the remediation period. This preliminary cost estimate was approved by the EPA for initiation of remediation work in December 2012. Certain liabilities for this subject contamination have been previously assumed by U.S. Industries, Inc., pursuant to its indemnity obligation under the stock purchase agreement dated August 11, 1995, whereby U.S. Industries, Inc. sold the stock of MW to Fenway Partners. As the successor-in-interest of Fenway Partners, we are similarly indemnified by U.S. Industries, Inc. Our ability to seek indemnification from U.S. Industries is, however, limited by the terms of the indemnity as well as the strength of U.S. Industries’ financial condition, which could change in the future.In addition, under the stock purchase agreement governing the MWM Holding acquisition, the sellers agreed to indemnify us for the first $250,000 in certain costs of compliance with the New Jersey Industrial Site Recovery Act at a facility of MW in Hammonton, New Jersey and for 75% of any such costs between $250,000 and $5.5 million. Our ability to seek indemnification or enforce other obligations is, however, limited by the strength of the financial condition of the indemnitor or responsible party, which could change in the future, as well as by limits to any such indemnities or obligations.15Table of ContentsChanges in environmental laws and regulations or in their enforcement, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or other liabilities relating to our properties and operations or the inability to enforce the indemnification obligations of the previous owners of our subsidiaries could result in significant environmental liabilities that could adversely impact our operating performance. In addition, we might incur significant capital and other costs to comply with increasingly stringent United States or Canadian environmental laws or enforcement policies that would decrease our cash flow.Manufacturing or assembly realignments may result in a decrease in our short-term earnings, until the expected cost reductions are achieved, due to the costs of implementation.We continually review our manufacturing and assembly operations and sourcing capabilities. Effects of periodic manufacturing realignment, cost savings programs, and labor ramp-up costs could result in a decrease in our short-term earnings until the expected cost reductions are achieved and/or production volumes stabilize. Such programs may include the consolidation and integration of facilities, functions, systems and procedures. Such actions may not be accomplished as quickly as anticipated and the expected cost reductions may not be achieved or sustained.We rely on a variety of intellectual property rights. Any threat to, or impairment of, these rights could cause us to incur costs to defend these rights.As a company that manufactures and markets branded products, we rely heavily on trademark and service mark protection to protect our brands. We also have issued patents and rely on trade secret and copyright protection for certain of our technologies. These protections may not adequately safeguard our intellectual property and we may incur significant costs to defend our intellectual property rights, which may harm our operating results. There is a risk that third parties, including our current competitors, will infringe on our intellectual property rights, in which case we would have to defend these rights. There is also a risk that third parties, including our current competitors, will claim that our products infringe on their intellectual property rights. These third parties may bring infringement claims against us or our customers, which may harm our operating results.Increases in fuel costs could cause our cost of products sold to increase and net income to decrease.Increases in fuel costs can negatively impact our cost to deliver our products to our customers and thus increase our cost of products sold. If we are unable to increase the selling price of our products to our customers to cover any increases in fuel costs, net income may be adversely affected.Declines in our business conditions may result in an impairment of our tangible and intangible assets, which could result in a material non-cash charge.A negative long-term performance outlook could result in a decrease in net sales, which could result in a decrease in operating cash flows. These declines could result in an impairment of our tangible and intangible assets which results when the carrying value of the assets exceed their fair value.The significant amount of our indebtedness may limit the cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business.Our indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, such as capital expenditures, acquisitions and working capital;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy;•place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;•expose us to fluctuations in the interest rate environment because the interest rates of our ABL Facility are at variable rates; and•limit our ability to borrow additional funds.Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness.The terms of our debt covenants could limit how we conduct our business and our ability to raise additional funds.16Table of ContentsThe agreements that govern the terms of our debt, including the indentures that govern the 8.25% Senior Secured Notes due 2018 (the "8.25% Senior Secured Notes") we issued on February 11, 2011 and February 16, 2012 and the 9.375% Senior Notes due 2017 (the “9.375% Senior Notes”) we issued on September 27, 2012 and the credit agreement that governs the senior secured asset based revolving credit facility (“ABL Facility”), contain covenants that restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to:•incur and guarantee indebtedness or issue equity interests of restricted subsidiaries;•repay subordinated indebtedness prior to its stated maturity;•pay dividends or make other distributions on or redeem or repurchase our stock;•issue capital stock;•make certain investments or acquisitions;•create liens;•sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies;•enter into certain transactions with stockholders and affiliates;•make capital expenditures; and•pay dividends, distributions or other payments from our subsidiaries.These restrictions may affect our ability to grow our business and take advantage of market and business opportunities or to raise additional debt or equity capital.In addition, under the ABL Facility, if our excess availability is less than the greater of (a) 12.5% of the lesser of the revolving credit commitments and the borrowing base and (b) $17.5 million, we will be required to comply with a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio test. Our ability to meet the required fixed charge coverage ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure that we will meet this ratio. A breach of any of these covenants under the ABL Facility or the indentures governing our 8.25% Senior Secured Notes or our 9.375% Senior Notes could result in an event of default under the ABL Facility or the indentures. An event of default under any of our debt agreements would permit some of our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable and, in some cases, proceed against the collateral securing such indebtedness.Moreover, the ABL Facility provides the lenders considerable discretion to impose reserves or availability blocks, which could materially impair the amount of borrowings that would otherwise be available to us. There can be no assurance that the lenders under the ABL Facility will not impose such actions during the term of the ABL Facility and further, were they to do so, the resulting impact of this action could materially and adversely impair our liquidity. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under such indebtedness, which may not be successful. We may also be unable to generate sufficient cash to make required capital expenditures.Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations and to make capital expenditures depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the industry in which we operate and competitive pressures. We cannot assure that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay or refinance our indebtedness, including the 8.25% Senior Secured Notes, the 9.375% Senior Notes or our indebtedness under our ABL Facility, or make required capital expenditures. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we and our subsidiaries could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness.In addition, if we do not have, or are unable to obtain, adequate funds to make all necessary capital expenditures when required, or if the amount of future capital expenditures are materially in excess of our anticipated or current expenditures, our product offerings may become dated, our productivity may decrease and the quality of our products may decline, which, in turn, could reduce our sales and profitability.17Table of ContentsOur income tax net operating loss carryovers may be limited and our results of operations may be adversely impacted.We have substantial deferred tax assets related to net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) for United States federal and state income tax purposes, which are available to offset future taxable income. As a result, we project that the U.S. cash tax rate will be reduced from the federal statutory rate and state rate as a result of approximately $229.3 million of gross NOLs for federal purposes and $245.8 million of gross state NOLs. Our ability to utilize the NOLs may be limited as a result of certain events, such as insufficient future taxable income prior to expiration of the NOLs or annual limits imposed under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), or by state law, as a result of a change in control. A change in control is generally defined as a cumulative change of more than 50 percentage points in the ownership positions of certain stockholders during a rolling three-year period. Changes in the ownership positions of certain stockholders could occur as the result of stock transactions by such stockholders and/or by the issuance of stock by us. Such limitations may cause us to pay income taxes earlier and in greater amounts than would be the case if the NOLs were not subject to such limitations. Should we determine that it is likely that our recorded NOL benefits are not realizable, we would be required to reduce the NOL tax benefits reflected on our consolidated financial statements to the net realizable amount by establishing a valuation reserve and recording a corresponding charge to earnings. Conversely, if we are required to reverse any portion of the accounting valuation allowance against our U.S. deferred tax assets related to our NOLs, such reversal could have a positive effect on our financial condition and results of operations in the period in which it is recorded.If Ply Gem Holdings enters into a tax receivable agreement in connection with its initial public offering, it may be required to pay an affiliate of our current stockholders for certain tax benefits it may claim. The amounts it may pay could be significant and the amounts it pays may not be reimbursed even if the claimed tax benefits are later determined by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) not to be allowed. The agreement could also adversely affect the ability of Ply Gem Holdings or us to enter into transactions with third parties because of additional obligations that might arise under the agreement.The amount and timing of any payments under the tax receivable agreement may vary depending upon a number of factors, including the amount and timing of the taxable income Ply Gem Holdings generates in the future and the tax rate then applicable, its use of NOL carryovers and the portion of its payments under the tax receivable agreement constituting imputed interest. The payments it may be required to make under the tax receivable agreement could be substantial. Ply Gem Holdings expects that, as a result of the amount of the NOL carryovers from prior periods (or portions thereof) and the deductible expenses attributable to the transactions related to its initial public offering, assuming no material changes in the relevant tax law and that Ply Gem Holdings earns sufficient taxable income to realize in full the potential tax benefit described above, future payments under the tax receivable agreement, in respect of the federal and state NOL carryovers, are expected to be approximately $84.0 million and are expected to be paid within the next five years. These amounts reflect only the cash savings attributable to current tax attributes resulting from the NOL carryovers. It is possible that future transactions or events could increase or decrease the actual tax benefits realized and the corresponding tax receivable agreement payments from these tax attributes. In addition, although Ply Gem Holdings is not aware of any issue that would cause the IRS to challenge the benefits expected to arise under the tax receivable agreement, the tax receivable agreement is expected to provide that the Tax Receivable Entity will not reimburse Ply Gem Holdings for any payments previously made if such benefits are subsequently disallowed, except that excess payments made to the Tax Receivable Entity will be netted against payments otherwise to be made, if any, after Ply Gem Holding’s determination of such excess. As a result, if such circumstances were to occur, Ply Gem Holdings could make payments under the tax receivable agreement that are greater than its actual cash tax savings and may not be able to recoup those payments, which could adversely affect its liquidity. Finally, because Ply Gem Holdings is a holding company with no operations of its own, its ability to make payments under the tax receivable agreement will be dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries to make distributions to it. The ABL Facility and the indentures governing the 8.25% Senior Secured Notes and the 9.375% Senior Notes restrict the ability of Ply Gem Holdings’ subsidiaries to make distributions to it, which could affect its ability to make payments under the tax receivable agreement. To the extent that Ply Gem Holdings is unable to make payments under the tax receivable agreement for any reason, such payments will be deferred and will accrue interest until paid, which could adversely affect our results of operations and could also affect our liquidity in periods in which such payments are made. In addition, the tax receivable agreement is expected to provide that, upon certain mergers, asset sales, or other forms of business combinations or certain other changes of control, Ply Gem Holdings’ or its successor’s obligations with respect to tax benefits would be based on certain assumptions, including that Ply Gem Holdings or its successor would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the NOL carryovers covered by the tax receivable agreement. As a result, upon a change of control, Ply Gem Holdings may be required to make payments under the tax receivable agreement that are greater than or less than the specified percentage of its actual cash tax savings.18Table of ContentsOur ability to effectively integrate future acquisitions, if any, will be critical to maintaining and improving our operating performance. We will continue to pursue strategic acquisitions into our business if they provide future financial and operational benefits. However, our ability to effectively integrate these acquisitions into our existing business and culture may not be successful, which could jeopardize future operational performance for the combined businesses. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities or cyberattacks on our networks could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Purchase of our products may involve the transmission and/or storage of data, including in certain instances customers' business and personally identifiable information. Thus, maintaining the security of computers, computer networks and data storage resources is a critical issue for us and our customers, as security breaches could result in vulnerabilities and loss of and/or unauthorized access to confidential information. We devote significant resources to address security vulnerabilities through enhancing security and reliability features in our computer networks, deploying security updates to address security vulnerabilities and seeking to respond to known security incidents in sufficient time to minimize any potential adverse impact. Experienced hackers, cybercriminals and perpetrators of advanced persistent threats may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions, product or service vulnerabilities or cause shutdowns. These perpetrators of cyberattacks also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, malware and other malicious software programs that attack our products and services, our networks or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products, services and networks. However, because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until long after being launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. A breach of our security measures as a result of third-party action, malware, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise could result in:•harm to our reputation or brand, which could lead some customers to seek to cancel subscriptions, stop purchasing our products, reduce or delay future purchases of our products, or use competing products;•state or federal enforcement action, which could result in fines and/penalties and which would cause us to incur legal fees and costs, and/or•additional costs associated with responding to the cyberattack, such as the costs of providing individuals and/or data owners with notice of the breach, legal fees, the costs of any additional fraud detection activities required by credit card associates, and costs incurred by credit card issuers associated with the compromise and additional monitoring of systems for further fraudulent activity. Any of these actions could materially adversely impact our business and results of operations.Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNot applicable.19Table of Contents