Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We depend on Martin Cohen and Robert Steers, our Co-Chairmen and Co-Chief Executive Officers, and the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on us. We depend on the efforts of Mr. Cohen and Mr. Steers. Mr. Cohen and Mr. Steers head each of our investment committees with our president, Joseph Harvey, and they oversee the portfolio manager and research teams responsible for each of our portfolio strategies. Although we expect Mr. Cohen and Mr. Steers to continue to act in their current positions, the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we lose, fail to retain or recruit key personnel. The market for qualified portfolio managers is extremely competitive. It is imperative for us to add and retain the portfolio managers and investment analysts that form the foundation of our company. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. In addition, our investment professionals and senior marketing personnel have direct contact with our institutional account clients, which can lead to strong client relationships. The loss of these personnel could jeopardize our relationships with certain institutional account clients, and result in the loss of such accounts. Further, we employ compensation mechanisms involving the use of equity compensation that may not be effective, especially if the market price of our common stock declines. The loss of key personnel or the inability to recruit and retain portfolio managers or marketing personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. A decline in the prices of securities could lead to a decline in revenue and earnings. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from the investment advisory and administration fees we receive from our clients. These fees are primarily based on the market value of the assets and, in some cases, performance fees expressed as a percentage of the returns earned on the assets underlying the agreements that govern the fee calculations. Accordingly, a decline in the price of the securities in which we invest on behalf of our clients generally, and real estate securities in particular, could cause our revenue and earnings to decline. For example, the unprecedented turmoil in the global capital markets and in the REIT industry (in particular during 2008 and that extended to the first quarter of 2009) had a significant material adverse effect on the value of the assets we managed and our earnings and revenue, causing our assets under management to decline. The securities markets are highly volatile, and securities prices may increase or decrease for many reasons, including economic, financial or political events. Our operating margin may also be adversely affected by our fixed costs and other expenses and the possibility that we would be unable to scale back other costs within a time frame sufficient to match any decreases in revenue relating to changes in our assets under management. 8A general decline in the performance of securities in the real estate sector could have an adverse effect on the assets we manage and our revenue. As of December 31, 2012, 54% of the assets we managed were concentrated in U.S. real estate common stocks and 15% were concentrated in non-U.S. real estate securities. Real estate securities and real property investments owned by the issuers of real estate securities are subject to varying degrees of risk. The returns from investments in real estate depend on the amount of income and capital appreciation generated by the related properties. Income and real estate values may also be adversely affected by such factors as applicable laws (e.g., Americans with Disabilities Act and tax laws), interest rate levels, and the availability of financing. If the properties do not generate sufficient income to meet operating expenses, the income and ability of a real estate company to make payments of any interest and principal on debt securities or any dividends on common or preferred stocks will be adversely affected. In addition, real property and loans on real property may be subject to the quality of credit extended and defaults by borrowers and tenants. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, the ability of real estate companies to vary their portfolios promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions is limited. A real estate company may also have joint venture investments in certain properties and, consequently, its ability to control decisions relating to such properties may be limited. Declines in the performance of real estate securities (such as the decline which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2008 and that extended into the first quarter of 2009) could reduce the assets we manage and our revenue. Our growth may be constrained by the limited size and number of issuers in the real estate securities market, as well as real estate investment trust ownership restrictions. Real estate securities investment continues to play an important role in the overall prospects of our business. Our ability to continue our growth in real estate securities depends in part on growth in the size and number of issuers in the real estate securities market, particularly in the United States. Further, in order for the REITs in which our advisory portfolios invest to continue to qualify as a REIT, not more than 50% in value of the REIT's outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals. To assure that five or fewer individuals do not beneficially own more than 50% in value of the REIT's outstanding capital stock, the REIT's formation documents generally contain restrictions on ownership of the company's outstanding capital stock, common stock, and/or preferred stock which vary from company to company. These ownership limitations may limit the investment size of our advisory portfolios in particular REITs. Due to these constraints, we have in the past and may in the future stop accepting new assets in real estate securities institutional account portfolios in certain strategies and in certain open-end mutual funds. We also may be constrained in our ability to sponsor new closed-end mutual funds that invest primarily or significantly in U.S. real estate securities. Such constraints may impair our ability to increase the assets we manage and our revenue. We may have limited ability to raise additional closed-end mutual fund assets to manage. Market conditions may preclude us from increasing the assets we manage in closed-end mutual funds. A significant portion of our growth in the assets we manage has resulted from public offerings of the common and preferred shares of closed-end mutual funds. The market conditions for these offerings may not be as favorable now or in the future, which could adversely impact our ability to grow the assets we manage and our revenue. Certain of the closed-end funds managed by the Company utilize leverage in the form of bank financing, which in the aggregate amount to $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2012. To the extent the closed-end funds managed by the Company elect or are required by regulation or the terms of the bank financing to reduce leverage and repay the bank financing, the funds may need to liquidate investments, thereby decreasing the Company's assets under management. Our clients can withdraw the assets we manage on short notice, making our future client and revenue base unpredictable. Our investment advisory and administration agreements are generally terminable upon 60 or fewer days notice. In addition, open-end mutual fund investors may redeem their investments in the mutual funds at any time without prior notice. Moreover, each investment advisory agreement, including the fees payable thereunder, with a mutual fund is subject to annual approval by the mutual fund's board, as well as by a majority of the directors who are not interested persons as defined by the Investment Company Act; such approval may not be granted. Institutional and individual clients, and firms with which we have strategic alliances, can terminate their relationships with us, reduce the aggregate amount of the assets we manage or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for any of a number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates and financial market performance. In a declining stock market, the pace of mutual fund redemptions could accelerate. Poor performance relative to other asset management firms tends to result in 9decreased purchases of mutual fund shares, increased redemptions of mutual fund shares, and the loss of institutional or individual accounts. Under certain circumstances, stockholder activists may pressure closed-end mutual funds for which we are the investment adviser to tender for their shares, open-end, liquidate or take other actions that may adversely affect the fees we receive from the affected closed-end mutual funds. The decrease in revenue that could result from any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, as required by the Investment Company Act and the Advisers Act, each of our investment advisory agreements automatically terminates upon its “assignment.” A sale of a sufficient number of shares of our voting securities could be deemed an “assignment” in certain circumstances. An assignment, actual or constructive, may trigger these termination provisions and may adversely affect our ability to continue managing open-end and closed-end mutual funds and institutional accounts. Loss of significant relationship would decrease our revenue. At December 31, 2012, our largest institutional account relationship covering numerous strategies and accounts in subadvisory and model-based assignments or products, represented approximately 19% of our total revenue in 2012. Approximately 48% of the institutional account assets we managed and approximately 26% of the total assets we managed was derived from this relationship. Further, approximately 41% of our assets under advisement through a model-based strategy was derived from this relationship. Loss of, or significant withdrawal from, any of these accounts would reduce our revenue. We have, from time to time, lost accounts or had reduction in assets because of decisions by our clients to reallocate their assets to different asset classes, modify their investment strategies or distribution rate for portfolios we subadvise, or move their assets to our competitors. In the future, we could lose accounts under these or other circumstances, such as adverse market conditions or poor investment performance. Investment performance could reduce the assets we manage and our revenue and income. Success in the asset management business is dependent on investment performance as well as distribution and client service. Relatively poor performance tends to result in decreased sales, increased withdrawals and redemptions in the case of the open-end mutual funds, and in the loss of separately managed accounts, with corresponding decreases in revenue. Many analysts of the mutual fund business believe that investment performance is the most important factor for the growth of open-end mutual funds. Failure of our investment products to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and future growth. A rise in interest rates could negatively impact our business. Our asset management business could be negatively impacted by rising interest rates. An increase in interest rates could cause the price of certain REITs and other securities in our clients' portfolios to decline. In addition, an increase in interest rates could negatively impact net flows into open-end mutual funds and institutional accounts and our ability to offer new closed-end mutual funds. These events would negatively affect our revenue and net income. The inability to access clients through intermediaries could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to distribute mutual funds and subadvisory services is highly dependent on access to the client base of national and regional securities firms, banks, insurance companies, defined contribution plan administrators and other intermediaries which generally offer competing investment products. To a lesser extent, our institutional account asset management business depends on recommendations by consultants, financial planners and other professional advisers, as well as our existing clients. We may not be able to continue to gain access to these channels. The inability to have this access could have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of the growth in the mutual fund assets we manage in recent years has been accessed through intermediaries. Loss of any of these distribution channels, and the inability to access clients through new distribution channels, could adversely affect our results of operations and business prospects. Fee pressures could reduce our revenue and profitability. There has been a trend toward lower fees in some segments of the asset management business. In order for us to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to provide clients with investment returns and service that will encourage them to be willing to pay such fees. In addition, the SEC has adopted rules that are designed to improve mutual fund corporate governance. These rules could result in further downward pressure on investment advisory fees in the mutual fund industry. Accordingly, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure or take advantage of 10scheduled fee increases. Fee reductions on existing or future new business would have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. Our business strategy may not be successful. Our business strategy involves diversifying our asset management business to include products and services outside the U.S. real estate securities area. This has entailed hiring additional portfolio managers in areas in which we do not have significant prior experience, including the global real estate long-short and multimanager strategies, opening offices both within and outside the United States, and hiring subadvisers to manage portions of our sponsored funds. In the future, it may entail acquiring other asset management firms. We may not be successful in locating and hiring or acquiring such portfolio managers or asset management firms and any such hiring activity or acquisitions may not be successful. In addition, our business prospects and future growth are subject to our ability to successfully manage multiple offices and navigate legal and regulatory systems outside the United States. Furthermore, a change in the current tax treatment of dividends could adversely impact our business strategy. We could suffer losses in earnings or revenue if our reputation is harmed. Our reputation is important to the success of our business. We believe that the Cohen & Steers brand has been, and continues to be, well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brand, like our business, is based in part on trust and confidence. If our reputation is harmed, existing clients may reduce amounts held in, or withdraw entirely from, funds that we advise, or funds may terminate their management agreements with us, which could reduce the amount of assets under management and cause us to suffer a corresponding loss in earnings or revenue. Moreover, reputational harm may cause us to lose current employees and we may be unable to continue to attract new ones with similar qualifications, motivations or skills. If we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, successfully and promptly the underlying causes of any reputational harm, we may be unsuccessful in repairing any existing harm to our reputation and our future business prospects would likely be affected. Failure to comply with client contractual requirements and/or guidelines could result in damage awards against the Company and loss of revenue due to client terminations. When clients retain the Company to manage assets or provide products or services on their behalf, they specify guidelines or contractual requirements that the Company is required to observe in the provision of its services. A failure to comply with these guidelines or contractual requirements could result in damage to the Company's reputation or in its clients seeking to recover losses, withdrawing their funds or terminating their contracts, any of which could cause the Company's revenue and earnings to decline. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect our business. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. Cohen & Steers, and the funds and accounts that it manages, have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry. Many of these transactions expose Cohen & Steers or the funds and accounts that it manages to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely impact our revenue and earnings. Expansion into international markets and new products and services increases our operational, regulatory and other risks. We have increased and expanded our product offerings and international business activities over the past several years, including the management of global real estate long-short and multimanager strategies. As a result of such expansion, we face increased operational, regulatory, compliance, reputation and foreign exchange rate risks. The failure of our compliance and internal control systems to properly mitigate such additional risks, or of our operating infrastructure to support such international expansion, could result in operational failures and regulatory fines or sanctions. Regulations restricting the use of “soft dollars” could result in an increase of our expenses. On behalf of our mutual fund and investment advisory clients, we make decisions to buy and sell securities for each portfolio, select broker/dealers to execute trades and negotiate brokerage commission rates. In connection with these transactions, we may receive “soft dollar credits” from broker/dealers that have the effect of defraying certain of our expenses. If the ability of asset managers to use “soft dollars” were reduced or eliminated our operating expenses would 11potentially have increased by approximately $6.3 million in 2012. We would expect a similar increase in operating expenses for future periods if the use of “soft dollars” was eliminated or significantly reduced. The asset management industry is intensely competitive. Our funds and institutional accounts compete against an ever-increasing number of investment products and services sold to the public by investment management companies, investment dealers, banks, insurance companies and others. Many institutions competing with us have greater resources than we do. We compete with other providers of investment products on the basis of the products offered, the investment performance of such products, quality of service, fees charged, the level and type of financial intermediary compensation, the manner in which such products are marketed and distributed, our reputation and the services provided to investors. In addition, our ability to market investment products is highly dependent on access to the various distribution systems of national and regional securities dealer firms, which generally offer competing internally and externally managed investment products which could limit the distribution of our investment products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain access to these channels. The inability to have such access could have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent that existing or potential customers, including securities broker/dealers, decide to invest in or broaden distribution relationships with our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenue and net income could decline. Failure to maintain adequate infrastructure could impede our ability to support business growth. We continue to experience significant growth in our business activities, both domestically and internationally. We must maintain adequate infrastructure to support this growth, including technological capacity, data centers, backup facilities and sufficient space for expanding staff levels. The failure to maintain an infrastructure commensurate with our expansion, particularly our international expansion, could impede our growth.Failure to implement effective information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities could disrupt operations and cause financial losses that could result in a decrease in Cohen & Steers' earnings or stock price. We are dependent on the effectiveness of its information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities to protect its computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them. An externally caused information security incident, such as a hacker attack, virus or worm, or an internally caused issue, such as failure to control access to sensitive systems, could materially interrupt business operations or cause disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential client or competitive information and could result in material financial loss, loss of competitive position, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal liability, which, in turn, could cause a decline in our earnings or stock price.The failure of a key vendor to the Company to fulfill its obligations could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its products. We depend on a number of key vendors for various fund administration, accounting, custody and transfer agent roles and other operational needs. The failure or inability of the Company to diversify its sources for key services or the failure of any key vendors to fulfill their obligations could lead to operational issues for the Company and in certain products, which could result in financial losses for the Company and its clients.Risks Related to Our Common Stock We are controlled by Mr. Cohen and Mr. Steers, whose interests may differ from those of other stockholders. Our principals, Mr. Cohen and Mr. Steers, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 54% of our common stock as of March 8, 2013. As long as Mr. Cohen and Mr. Steers control a majority of the common stock, they will have the ability to, among other things: •elect all of the members of our board of directors and thereby control our management and affairs;•determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders for approval; and•preclude any unsolicited acquisition of us and, consequently, adversely affect the market price of the common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium on their shares. The interests of our principals could differ from those of other stockholders in instances where, for example, our principals' compensation is being determined or where an unsolicited acquisition of us could result in a change in our management. 12Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the issuance of additional shares will dilute all other stockholdings. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our principals, who directly or indirectly own, in the aggregate, 23,743,081 shares of our common stock as of March 8, 2013, may sell shares of our common stock, subject to the securities laws restrictions on sales by affiliates. We granted our principals and two trusts benefiting their families, their affiliates and certain of their transferees the right to require us to register under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), shares of our common stock (and other securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of common stock) held by them under certain circumstances. In September 2012, a registration statement that covered resales of an aggregate of 12,000,000 shares owned by Messrs. Cohen and Steers and 10,000,000 primary shares which may be offered and sold by us, was declared effective by the SEC. Although there are no current plans to issue new shares, upon expiration of this registration statement in September 2015, we currently plan to file another registration statement covering the sale or re-sale of shares of our common stock.Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable by permitting our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. In addition, provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law restrict certain business combinations with interested stockholders. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price.Legal and Regulatory Risks We are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and internationally. Our business is subject to extensive regulation in the United States and around the world. See the discussion under “Item 1 - Business - Regulation.” Violation of applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, temporary or permanent prohibition of the engagement in certain activities, reputational harm and related client terminations, suspensions of personnel or revocation of their licenses, suspension or termination of investment adviser or broker-dealer registrations, or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or financial condition and cause our earnings or stock price to decline. We may be adversely impacted by legal and regulatory changes in the United States and internationally. As previously mentioned, in July 2010, the DFA was signed into law. The DFA is expansive in scope and requires the adoption of extensive regulations and numerous regulatory decisions in order to be implemented. The adoption of these regulations and decisions will in large measure determine the impact of the DFA on the Company. We are continuing to review the impact of the legislation and related rule-making will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The business impact of the DFA and its regulations, and other new laws or regulations, including those affecting money market funds, or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations in the United States or internationally, could adversely impact the scope or profitability of our business activities, could require us to change certain business practices and could expose us to additional costs (including compliance and tax costs). Further, regulations under the DFA relating to regulation of swaps and derivatives could impact the manner by which Company-advised funds and accounts use and trade swaps and other derivatives, and could significantly increase the costs of derivatives trading conducted by the Company on behalf of its clients. We will also need to build new compliance mechanisms to monitor compliance with SEC and CFTC rules concerning, among other things, the registration and regulation of commodity pool operators (and the accompanying registration and regulation of such entities by the NFA), the registration status of dealer counterparties and other counterparties who are major swap participants in the swap markets, and requirements concerning mandatory clearing of certain swap transactions. The Company, on behalf of its clients, is also preparing for mandated central clearing of swaps and mandated trading venue requirements. In addition, the Company will begin reporting certain information about its private funds to the SEC and certain information about a number of its commodity pools to the CFTC, pursuant to systemic risk reporting requirements adopted by both agencies, which have required, and will continue to require, investments in people and systems to assure timely and accurate reporting. 13The SEC, the Internal Revenue Service and the CFTC each continue to review the use of futures and derivatives by mutual funds, which could result in regulations that further limit the use of futures and derivatives by mutual funds. If adopted, these limitations could require the Company to change certain mutual fund business practices or to register additional entities with the CFTC, which could result in additional costs and/or restrictions. In addition, in the aftermath of the financial crisis, the European Commission set out a detailed plan for European Union financial reform, outlining a number of initiatives to be reflected in new or updated directives, regulations and recommendations of which the review of MiFID was a part. These, together with the changes contemplated by the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, will have direct and indirect effects on our operations in the European Economic Area, including increased compliance, disclosure and other obligations, which could impact our ability to expand in these markets. The foregoing regulatory changes, and other reforms globally, could also lead to business disruptions, could adversely impact the value of assets in which the Company has invested on behalf of clients and/or via seed or co-investments, and, to the extent the regulations strictly control the activities of financial services firms, could make it more difficult for the Company to conduct certain business activities or distinguish itself from competitors. See “Item 1 - Business - Regulation” above for additional information regarding certain laws and regulations that affect the Company's business. Failure to comply with the Advisers Act and the Investment Company Act and related regulations could result in substantial harm to our reputation and results of operations. Certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC under the Advisers Act and the Company's U.S. mutual funds are registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act. The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations and fiduciary duties on registered investment advisers, including record-keeping, operating and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. The Investment Company Act imposes similar obligations, as well as additional detailed operational and compliance requirements, on investment advisers to registered investment companies. The failure of any of the relevant subsidiaries to comply with the Advisers Act or the Investment Company Act could cause the SEC to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of either of these acts, including censure, termination of an investment adviser's registration or prohibition to serve as adviser to SEC-registered funds, and could lead to litigation by investors in those funds or harm to the Company's reputation, any of which could cause its earnings or stock price to decline. Failure to comply with ERISA regulations could result in penalties and cause the Company's earnings or stock price to decline. The Company is subject to ERISA and to regulations promulgated thereunder, insofar as we act as a “fiduciary” under ERISA with respect to benefit plan clients. ERISA and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code impose duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, prohibit specified transactions involving ERISA plan clients and provide monetary penalties for violations of these prohibitions. The failure of any of the relevant subsidiaries to comply with these requirements could result in significant penalties that could reduce the Company's earnings or cause its stock price to decline. Legal proceedings could adversely affect operating results, financial condition and cash flows for a particular period. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of legal liability. The Company has in the past been named as a defendant in litigation arising in connection with our business activities. From time to time, we receive subpoenas or other requests for information from various U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and regulatory authorities in connection with certain industry-wide, company-specific or other investigations or proceedings. Additionally, certain of the investment funds that the Company manages are subject to lawsuits, any of which could potentially harm the investment returns of the applicable fund or result in the Company being liable to the funds for any resulting damages.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has no unresolved SEC comments. 