Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Associated with Our Business Downturns in the home repair and remodeling and new home construction sectors or the economy could lower the demand for, and pricing of, our products, which in turn could cause our net sales and net income to decrease. Our performance is dependent to a significant extent upon the levels of home repair and remodeling and new home construction spending, all of which are affected by such factors as interest rates, inflation, consumer confidence, unemployment, and the availability of consumer credit. Current market forecasts indicate that single family housing starts for the new construction market will decline in 2009 as compared to 2008. If these market forecasts are correct, our net sales and net income may be adversely affected. Availability of consumer credit could impact home repair and remodeling and new home construction sectors which could lower the demand for, and pricing of, our products, which in turn could cause our net sales and net income to decrease. 13 Our performance is dependent upon consumers having the ability to finance home repair and remodeling projects and/or the purchase of new homes. The ability of consumers to finance these purchases are affected by such factors as new and existing home prices, homeowners’ equity values, interest rates and home foreclosures, which in turn could result in a tightening of lending standards by financial institutions and reduce the ability of some consumers to finance home purchases or repair and remodeling expenditures. Recent trends, including declining home values, increased home foreclosures and tightening of credit standards by lending institutions, have negatively impacted the home repair and remodeling and new home construction sectors. If these credit market trends continue, our net sales and net income may be adversely affected. We face competition from other vinyl exterior building products manufacturers and alternative building materials. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose customers and our sales could decline. We compete with other national and regional manufacturers of vinyl exterior building products. Some of these companies are larger and have greater financial resources than we do. Accordingly, these competitors may be better equipped to withstand changes in conditions within the industries in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. These competitors could take a greater share of sales and cause us to lose business from our customers. Additionally, our products face competition from alternative materials: wood, metal, fiber cement and masonry in siding, and wood in windows. An increase in competition from other vinyl exterior building products manufacturers and alternative building materials could cause us to lose our customers and lead to decreases in net sales. Changes in the costs and availability of raw materials, especially PVC resin and aluminum, can decrease our profit margin by increasing our costs. Our principal raw materials, PVC resin and aluminum, have been subject to rapid price changes in the past. While we have historically been able to substantially pass on significant PVC resin and aluminum cost increases through price increases to our customers, our results of operations for individual quarters can be and have been hurt by a delay between the time of PVC resin and aluminum cost increases and price increases in our products. While we expect that any significant future PVC resin and aluminum cost increases will be offset in part or whole over time by price increases to our customers, we may not be able to pass on any future price increases. Because we depend on a core group of significant customers, our sales, cash flows from operations and results of operations may decline if our key customers reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 33.8% of our net sales in the year ended December 31, 2008. Our largest customer, BlueLinx, distributes our vinyl siding and accessories through multiple channels within its building products distribution business, and accounted for approximately 9.2% of our 2008 net sales. We expect a small number of customers to continue to account for a substantial portion of our net sales for the foreseeable future. The loss of or a significant adverse change in our relationships with BlueLinx or any other major customer could cause a material decrease in our net sales. We expect our relationship with BlueLinx to continue. The loss of, or a reduction in orders from, any significant customers, losses arising from customers’ disputes regarding shipments, fees, merchandise condition or related matters, or our inability to collect accounts receivable from any major retail customer could cause a decrease in our net income and our cash flow. In addition, revenue from customers that have accounted for significant revenue in past periods, individually or as a group, may not continue, or if continued, may not reach or exceed historical levels in any period. Our business is seasonal and can be affected by inclement weather conditions which could affect the timing of the demand for our products and cause reduced profit margins when such conditions exist. 14 Markets for our products are seasonal and can be affected by inclement weather conditions. Historically, our business has experienced increased sales in the second and third quarters of the year due to increased construction during those periods. Because much of our overhead and expense are fixed throughout the year, our operating profits tend to be lower in the first and fourth quarters. Inclement weather conditions can affect the timing of when our products are applied or installed, causing reduced profit margins when such conditions exist. If we are unable to meet future capital requirements our product offering may become dated, our productivity may decrease and the quality of our products decline, which, in turn, could reduce our sales and profitability. We periodically make capital investments to, among other things, maintain and upgrade our facilities and enhance our production processes. As we grow our businesses, we may have to incur significant capital expenditures. If we do not have, or are unable to obtain adequate funds to make all necessary capital expenditures when required, or if the amount of future capital expenditures are materially in excess of our anticipated or current expenditures, our product offering may become dated, our productivity may decrease and the quality of our products may decline, which, in turn, could reduce our sales and profitability. Increases in the cost of labor, union organizing activity and work stoppages at our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers could delay or impede our production, reduce sales of our products and increase our costs. Our financial performance is affected by the availability of qualified personnel and the cost of labor. Currently, approximately 12.6% of our employees are represented by labor unions. We are subject to the risk that strikes or other types of conflicts with personnel may arise or that we may become a subject of union organizing activity. Furthermore, some of our direct and indirect suppliers have unionized work forces. Strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by these suppliers could result in slowdowns or closures of facilities where components of our products are manufactured. Any interruption in the production or delivery of our products could reduce sales of our products and increase our costs. We may be subject to claims arising from the operations of our subsidiaries, including Ply Gem Industries, MW, Alenco, AHE, Pacific Windows, and USV prior to our acquisitions. Our ability to seek indemnification from the former owners of our subsidiaries may be limited, in which case, we would be liable for these claims. We have acquired all of our subsidiaries in the last several years, including Ply Gem Industries, Inc., MW, Alenco, AHE, Pacific Windows, and USV. We may be subject to claims or liabilities arising from the ownership or operation of our subsidiaries prior to our acquisition of them. Our ability to seek indemnification from the former owners of our subsidiaries is limited by various factors, including the specific limitations contained in the respective acquisition agreement and the financial ability of the former owners. Under the terms of the stock purchase agreement governing the acquisition of Ply Gem Industries, Nortek has agreed to indemnify us for liabilities arising from its former ownership or operations of subsidiaries or properties where such ownership or operation ceased prior to the completion of the Ply Gem acquisition, including environmental liabilities, liabilities arising in connection with certain leases, product liability and other litigations, benefit plans, and for certain other liabilities. Our ability to seek indemnification from Nortek is, however, limited by the strength of Nortek’s financial condition, which could change in the future. These liabilities could be significant, and if we are unable to enforce the Nortek indemnification rights, could make it difficult to pay the interest or principal amount of the notes when due. Nortek has covenanted to use their reasonable commercial efforts to novate certain sale and lease contracts relating to discontinued operations, thereby removing us and our affiliates from certain indemnification obligations thereunder, which obligations we retained in connection with the sales of certain of our businesses. Accordingly, during 2004 Nortek successfully novated four sale contracts relating to our discontinued operations, including our disposition of Hoover Treated Wood Products, Inc., Sagebrush Sales, Peachtree Doors and Windows and SNE Enterprises. As a consequence, we are no longer responsible for any indemnification obligations to the buyers of these former operations. Nortek has also covenanted that after the Ply Gem acquisition, it will not dispose of all or substantially all of its property and assets in a single transaction or series of related transactions, unless the acquirer of either its residential building products segment or HVAC segment (whichever is sold first) assumes all of Nortek’s obligations (including Nortek’s indemnification obligations) under the stock purchase agreement. 15 We completed the acquisition of MW during 2004. Our ability to seek indemnification from the selling stockholders of MWM Holding is restricted to breaches of a limited amount of corporate representations and warranties, and for the first $250,000 in costs of compliance by MW with the New Jersey Industrial Site Recovery Act at an MW facility in Hammonton, New Jersey and for 75% of any such costs between $250,000 and $5.5 million resulting from the compliance by MW with that same act. We completed the acquisition of Alenco in February of 2006. Our ability to seek indemnification from the selling stockholders of AWC Holding Company for specified matters is subject to limitations, including the periods to submit claims, minimum amount of losses suffered and aggregate amounts of recovery. We completed the acquisition of AHE in October of 2006. Our ability to seek indemnification from the selling stockholders of AHE for specified matters is subject to limitations, including the periods to submit claims, minimum amount of losses suffered and aggregate amounts of recovery. We completed the acquisition of Pacific Windows in September of 2007. Our ability to seek indemnification from the selling stockholders of Pacific Windows for specified matters is subject to limitations, including the periods to submit claims, minimum amount of losses suffered and aggregate amounts of recovery. We completed the acquisition of USV in October 2008. Our ability to seek indemnification from the selling stockholders of USV for specified matters is subject to limitations, including the periods to submit claims, minimum amount of losses suffered and aggregate amounts of recovery. We could face potential product liability claims relating to products we manufacture. Our historical product liability claims have not been material and while management is not aware of any material product liability issues, we do face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. In the event that any of our products proves to be defective, among other things, we may be responsible for damages related to any defective products and we may be required to recall or redesign such products. Because of the long useful life of our products, it is possible that latent defects might not appear for several years. Any insurance we maintain may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. Further, any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could cause our sales to decline, or increase our costs. We are dependent on certain key personnel, the loss of whom could materially affect our financial performance and prospects. Our continued success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our senior management and certain key employees. To encourage the retention of certain key executives, we have entered into various equity-based compensation agreements with our senior executives, including Messrs. Robinette, Poe, Wayne, Morstad, and Pigues designed to encourage their retention. Each member of our senior management team has substantial experience and expertise in our industry and has made significant contributions to our growth and success. We do face the risk, however, that members of our senior management may not continue in their current positions and their loss of services could cause us to lose customers and reduce our net sales, lead to employee morale problems and/or the loss of key employees, or cause disruptions to our production. Also, we may be unable to find qualified individuals to replace any of the senior executive officers who leave our company. Interruptions in deliveries of raw materials or finished goods could adversely affect our production and increase our costs, thereby decreasing our profitability. Our dependency upon regular deliveries from particular suppliers means that interruptions or stoppages in such deliveries could adversely affect our operations until arrangements with alternate suppliers could be made. If any of our suppliers were unable to deliver materials to us for an extended period of time, as the result of financial difficulties, catastrophic events affecting their facilities or other factors beyond our control, or if we were unable to negotiate acceptable terms for the supply of materials with these or alternative suppliers, our business could suffer. We may not be able to find acceptable alternatives, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs for us. Even if acceptable alternatives were found, the process of locating and securing such alternatives might be disruptive to our business. Extended unavailability of a necessary raw material or finished good could cause us to cease manufacturing one or more of our products for a period of time. 16 Environmental requirements may impose significant costs and liabilities on us. Our facilities are subject to numerous United States and Canadian federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to the presence of hazardous materials, pollution and the protection of the environment, including those governing emissions to air, discharges to water, use, storage and transport of hazardous materials, storage, treatment and disposal of waste, remediation of contaminated sites and protection of worker health and safety. From time to time, our facilities are subject to investigation by governmental regulators. In addition, we have been identified as one of many potentially responsible parties for contamination present at certain offsite locations to which we or our predecessors are alleged to have sent hazardous materials for recycling or disposal. We believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable requirements of such laws and regulations. However, our efforts to comply with environmental requirements do not remove the risk that we may be held liable, or incur fines or penalties, and that the amount of liability, fines or penalties may be material, for, among other things, releases of hazardous substances occurring on or emanating from current or formerly owned or operated properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or for newly-discovered contamination at any of our properties from activities conducted by previous occupants. Certain environmental laws impose strict, and under certain circumstances joint and several, liability for the cost of addressing releases of hazardous substances upon certain classes of persons, including site owners or operators and persons that disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances at contaminated sites. Under the stock purchase agreement governing the Ply Gem acquisition, our former parent, Nortek, has agreed to indemnify us for any such liabilities arising from our former ownership or operation of subsidiaries or properties where such ownership or operation ceased prior to the completion of the Ply Gem acquisition and for certain other properties. Our ability to seek indemnification from Nortek is, however, limited by the strength of Nortek’s financial condition. Nortek has also covenanted that after the Ply Gem acquisition, it will not dispose of all or substantially all of its property and assets in a single transaction or series of related transactions, unless the acquirer of either its residential building products segment or HVAC segment (whichever is sold first) assumes all of Nortek’s obligations (including Nortek’s indemnification obligations) under the stock purchase agreement. We are currently involved in environmental proceedings involving CWD (arising from subsurface contamination discovered at our Calgary, Alberta property), and we may in the future be subject to environmental proceedings involving Thermal-Gard, Inc. (arising from groundwater contamination in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania) and Kroy Building Products, Inc. (relating to contamination in a drinking water well in York, Nebraska). Under the stock purchase agreement governing the Ply Gem acquisition, Nortek is to indemnify us fully for any liability in connection with the Punxsutawney contamination. Alcan Aluminum Corporation assumed the obligation to indemnify us with respect to certain liabilities for environmental contamination of the York property occurring prior to 1994 when it sold the property to us in 1998. Our former subsidiary, Hoover Treated Wood Products, Inc., is involved in an environmental proceeding in connection with a contaminated landfill site in Thomson, Georgia. While we had assumed an obligation to indemnify the purchaser of our former subsidiary when we sold Hoover Treated Wood Products, Inc., our obligation has been novated and assumed by Nortek. Under the stock purchase agreement governing the acquisition of MW, the sellers agreed to indemnify us for the first $250,000 in costs of compliance with the New Jersey Industrial Site Recovery Act at an MW facility in Hammonton, New Jersey and for 75% of any such costs between $250,000 and $5.5 million. In connection with the MW acquisition, MW achieved compliance with the Industrial Site Recovery Act by obtaining a Remediation in Progress waiver from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection based on the ongoing remediation of the site by a previous occupant. MW’s Rocky Mount, Virginia property is subject to an environmental investigation relating to contamination associated with an underground storage tank formerly located at the Rocky Mount, VA property. Liability for the underground storage tank contamination and related investigation has been previously assumed by U.S. Industries, Inc., pursuant to its indemnity obligation under the Stock Purchase Agreement dated August 11, 1995, whereby U.S. Industries, Inc. sold the stock of MW to Fenway Partners. As the successor in interest of Fenway Partners, we are similarly indemnified by U.S. Industries, Inc. U.S. Industries and MW are working to develop a course of action to address the site contamination that is acceptable to both companies and the Virginia regulatory authorities. 17 Changes in environmental laws and regulations or in their enforcement, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or other liabilities relating to our properties and operations or the inability to enforce the indemnification obligations of Nortek, the MW sellers and U.S. Industries, Inc. could result in significant environmental liabilities which could make it difficult to pay the interest or principal amount of our debt when due. In addition, we might incur significant capital and other costs to comply with increasingly stringent United States or Canadian environmental laws or enforcement policies which would decrease our cash flow available to service our indebtedness. Manufacturing or assembly realignments may result in a decrease in our short-term earnings, until the expected cost reductions are achieved, due to the costs of implementation. We continually review our manufacturing and assembly operations and sourcing capabilities. Effects of periodic manufacturing realignments and cost savings programs could result in a decrease in our short-term earnings until the expected cost reductions are achieved. Such programs may include the consolidation and integration of facilities, functions, systems and procedures. Such actions may not be accomplished as quickly as anticipated and the expected cost reductions may not be achieved or sustained. We rely on a variety of intellectual property rights. Any threat to, or impairment of, these rights could cause us to incur costs to defend these rights. As a company that manufactures and markets branded products, we rely heavily on trademark and service mark protection to protect our brands. We have a significant number of issued patents and rely on copyright protection for certain of our technologies. These protections may not adequately safeguard our intellectual property and we may incur significant costs to defend our intellectual property rights, which may harm our operating results. There is a risk that third parties, including our current competitors, will infringe on our intellectual property rights, in which case we would have to defend these rights. There is also a risk that third parties, including our current competitors, will claim that our products infringe on their intellectual property rights. These third parties may bring infringement claims against us or our customers, which may harm our operating results. We are controlled by our principal equity holder, which has the power to take unilateral action and whose interests in our business could conflict with yours. Affiliates of, and companies managed by, CI Capital Partners LLC, formerly known as Caxton-Iseman Capital, LLC, including Caxton-Iseman (Ply Gem), L.P. and Frederick Iseman, control our affairs and policies. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of these equity holders could be in conflict with the interests of creditors, including the holders of the senior secured and subordinated notes. In addition, these equity holders may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to creditors, including holders of the senior secured and subordinated notes. The substantial level of our indebtedness may limit the cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business. We have substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $1,114.2 million of indebtedness outstanding, including $60.0 million of outstanding borrowings under our $150.0 million senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility (the “ABL Facility”). Our substantial amount of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations on the 11.75% Senior Secured Notes due 2013 (the “Senior Secured Notes”) and 9% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2012 (the “Senior Subordinated Notes”); · make it more difficult to satisfy our obligations on our ABL Facility; 18 · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, such as capital expenditures, acquisitions and working capital; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; · expose us to fluctuations in the interest rate environment because the interest rates of our ABL Facility are at variable rates; and · limit our ability to borrow additional funds. We expect to obtain the money necessary to pay our expenses, fund working capital and capital expenditures, and to pay the interest on the Senior Secured Notes, Senior Subordinated Notes, and ABL Facility from cash flow from our operations and from Ply Gem Industries’ existing and available borrowings under its ABL Facility. Our ability to meet our expenses thus depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the industry in which we operate and competitive pressures. Our cash flow may not be sufficient to allow us to pay interest on our debt (including the Senior Secured Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes) and to meet our other obligations. If we do not have enough cash flow, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets or borrow additional money. We may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including the ABL Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Secured Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes, may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. The failure to generate sufficient cash flow or to achieve such alternatives could reduce the value of the Senior Secured Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes and limit our ability to pay principal and interest on the notes. The indentures for the Senior Secured Notes, Senior Subordinated Notes, and the ABL Facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. The indentures for the Senior Secured Notes, Senior Subordinated Notes and the ABL Facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, sell assets, incur certain liens, enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, or merge or consolidate. We must refinance existing senior subordinated indebtedness prior to its maturity. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect upon us. The maturity of our Senior Subordinated Notes is February 15, 2012, which is before the maturity of our Senior Secured Notes, and all outstanding loans under the ABL Facility which will be due and payable on June 9, 2013. If the Senior Subordinated Notes shall not have been refinanced in full on or prior to October 15, 2011, then the ABL Facility will become due and fully payable and the commitments thereunder will terminate on October 15, 2011. While we expect to refinance this indebtedness, we cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance this indebtedness, or whether any refinancing will be on commercially reasonable terms. There can be no assurance that the financial terms or covenants of any new credit facility and/or other indebtedness will be the same or as favorable as those under our ABL Facility, Senior Secured Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes. Our ability to complete a refinancing of our ABL Facility and our Senior Subordinated Notes prior to their respective maturities is subject to a number of conditions beyond our control. For example, if a disruption in the financial markets were to occur at the time that we intended to refinance this indebtedness, we might be restricted in our ability to access the financial markets. If we are unable to refinance this indebtedness, our alternatives would consist of negotiating an extension of our ABL Facility with the lenders and seeking or raising new capital. If we were unsuccessful, the lenders under our ABL Facility and the holders of our Senior Subordinated Notes could demand repayment of the indebtedness owed to them on the relevant maturity date. As a result, our ability to pay the principal of and interest on the notes would be adversely affected. 19 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 