Item 1A. Risk Factors There is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We need additional financing or capital which may be unavailable or costly. As a result of ethanol industry conditions that have negatively affected our business, we do not currently have sufficient liquidity to meet our anticipated working capital, debt service and other liquidity needs. In particular, we do not expect to have adequate liquidity to satisfy the $15 million interest payment due on April 1, 2009 on our outstanding senior unsecured 10% fixed-rate notes or the $24.4 million due to our EPC contractor, Kiewit Energy Company (“Kiewit”). In addition, we are currently in default under our outstanding 10% fixed-rate notes which permits the holders thereof to accelerate the $300 million principal amount thereof upon 60 days notice. The default under our 10% fixed rate notes constitutes an event of default under our secured revolving credit facility, which has been waived by lenders under our secured revolving credit facility until April 15, 2009. As a result, our 2008 financial statements include an explanatory paragraph by our independent registered public accounting firm describing the substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. As of March 12, 2009, $22.2 million in letters of credit and $16.5 million in revolving loans were outstanding under the amended secured revolving credit facility. After giving effect to the recent amendment to our secured revolving credit facility, we had $0.7 million of cash and $6.6 million of additional borrowing availability thereunder as of such date. All of our cash receipts are automatically applied to reduce amounts outstanding under our amended secured revolving credit facility and to cash collateralize our letters of credit. As we continue to reduce the number of gallons of ethanol we sell and hold in inventory, working capital available to support borrowings under our secured revolving credit facility will reduce proportionately. The amendment to our secured revolving credit facility requires us to successfully complete an exchange offer of our outstanding senior unsecured 10% fixed-rate notes for a like principal amount of a new series of “pay-in-kind” notes. We expect the “pay in kind” notes to (i) require no cash interest prior to April 1, 2010, (ii) require an increase in the interest rate to 12% per annum and (iii) grant a second lien on substantially all of our assets which must be contractually subordinated to the obligations under our secured revolving credit facility. In addition, to encourage holders of our senior unsecured 10% fixed-rate notes to participate in the exchange offer, we expect to need to offer the holders of our senior unsecured 10% fixed-rate notes 8.4 million shares of our common stock (representing approximately 19.9% of our currently outstanding shares of common stock). There can be no assurances, however, that the required percentage or any holders of the senior unsecured 10% fixed-rate notes will agree to an exchange on these terms or at all. Failure to have the holders of 80% of the existing senior unsecured 10% fixed-rate notes commit to participate in the exchange by March 31, 2009 or the failure to consummate the exchange for 18 Table of Contents 90% of the existing senior unsecured 10% fixed-rate notes by April 15, 2009 would be an event of default under our secured revolving credit facility. Even if we are successful with the senior unsecured 10% fixed-rate note exchange offer, we do not expect to have sufficient liquidity to meet anticipated working capital, debt service and other liquidity needs during the current year unless we experience a significant improvement in ethanol margins or obtain other sources of liquidity. Based on the current spread between corn and ethanol prices, the industry is operating at or near breakeven cash margins. We experienced negative gross margins during the second half of 2008 and expect negative gross margins to continue through the first quarter of 2009 due in part to our fixed price obligations to purchase corn and natural gas at above current market prices. The current spread between ethanol and corn prices cannot support the long-term viability of the U.S. ethanol industry in general or us in particular. In addition, although we suspended construction at both Aurora West and Mt. Vernon during the fourth quarter, we continue to have construction payment obligations to Kiewit. On March 9, 2009, the Company received a notice from Kiewit cancelling the engineering, construction and procurement contracts (EPC) for Aurora West and Mt. Vernon, referencing our failure to make a recent payment under the change order agreements dated December 31, 2008. As a result, all remaining payments due to it and its sub-contractors totaling $24.4 million at February 28, 2009 are due and payable. We are currently engaged in discussions with Kiewit to negotiate a payment schedule that falls within the economic constraints with which we are currently operating. We cannot give you any assurance that we will reach an agreement with Kiewit that works within our existing liquidity constraints. Because our obligations to Kiewit are past due, the liens securing these obligations violate the terms of our 10% fixed rate notes and constitute a default thereunder. Unless such default is cured through payment, the release of the liens, a negotiated resolution or otherwise, the holders of our 10% fixed rate notes may accelerate the $300 million principal amount thereof upon 60 days notice. In addition, the default under our 10% fixed rate notes constitutes an event of default under our secured revolving credit facility, which is our only current source of liquidity. We have obtained a waiver from the lenders under our secured revolving credit facility until April 15, 2009. Any foreclosure on such liens by Kiewit would constitute an event of default under our amended secured revolving credit facility that is not covered by the waiver. We remain contractually obligated to complete the suspended plants at Aurora and Mt.Vernon as well as an additional plant at Mt. Vernon capable of producing 110 million gallons of ethanol annually and may incur significant penalties because of our failure to complete these facilities as previously scheduled. Although we are actively pursuing a number of liquidity alternatives, including seeking additional debt and equity financing and a potential sale of all or part of the company, there can be no assurance we will be successful. If we cannot obtain sufficient liquidity in the very near-term, we may need to seek to restructure under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We are contractually obligated to complete certain capacity expansions in Aurora, Nebraska and Mount Vernon, Indiana. If we fail to complete them in a timely manner, we may be subject to material penalties. We are contractually obligated to develop both a 113 million gallon plant adjacent to our Nebraska facility (using commercially reasonable best efforts to obtain a permit for 226 million gallon capacity) and a two-phase 226 million gallon plant in Mount Vernon, Indiana and may incur significant penalties because of our failure to complete these facilities as previously scheduled. We may be subject to material penalties if we do not timely complete the initial 113 million gallon “phase I” of the Aurora Expansion or either the initial “phase I” or the second 113 million gallon “phase II” 19 Table of Contents of the Mt. Vernon expansion. If phase I of the Aurora plant is not completed and fully operational by July 1, 2009 we will be responsible for liquidated damages of $138,889 per month (up to a maximum of $5 million) until the plant is fully operational. We have suspended construction at Aurora indefinitely and do not expect to complete it by July 1, 2009. Accordingly, we expect to be required to pay the stipulated liquidated damages. If we are unable to or otherwise do not pay these damages, the counterparty has the right to repurchase the property at cost (subject to adjustment for any expenses which we have paid with respect to the infrastructure construction). We recently amended our lease with the Indiana Port Commission to provide additional flexibility as to the timing of the phase II expansion at Mt. Vernon. This lease, as amended, requires substantial completion of phase I (an initial 110 million gallons of capacity) by October 1, 2009 and substantial completion of phase II (an additional 110 million gallons of capacity) by January 1, 2011, subject in the case of phase II to specified extension rights. If we do not achieve these milestones, the State may, subject to specified cure rights, take over construction and complete the facility at our expense. In addition, if we fail to achieve these milestones we will, subject to specified cure rights or our ability to negotiate an extension, be in default under our lease and the State may also, at its election, (i) without terminating the lease, re-let the premises to a third party and charge us for any necessary repairs and alterations, (ii) without terminating the lease, require us to pay all amounts we are obligated to pay under the lease as they become payable, less any amount received from any re-letting of the premises or (iii) terminate the lease. If the State terminates the lease it can require that we pay liquidated damages in the amount by which the lease payments we are obligated to make under the lease exceed the fair and reasonable rental value of the premises, each discounted to present value (but in no event being less than two years of basic rent and minimum guaranteed wharfage under the lease). In addition, upon any termination or expiration of the lease, the State does not have to pay us for the value of the plant or any other improvements that we made to the premises and can require us to restore the leased premises to their original condition at our cost and expense. We have suspended construction of phase I at Mt. Vernon for the foreseeable future and have not commenced construction of phase II. Accordingly, we are engaged in negotiations with the Indiana Port Commission. If we are unable to reach an agreement with the Indiana Port Commission, they may exercise any of the foregoing remedies which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and require us to seek to restructure under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. On March 9, 2009, we received a notice from our EPC contractor, Kiewit, cancelling the EPC contracts for phase I of Aurora West and Mt. Vernon, referencing our failure to make a recent payment. Accordingly, we no longer have EPC contracts for the completion of Aurora West or Mt. Vernon and do not have any recourse against Kiewit for design or construction defects or performance guarantees under those EPC contracts. Our liquidity could be adversely impacted in the event our bank was to impose material reserve requirements under our secured revolving credit facility. Our secured revolving credit facility allows the agent for this facility to arbitrarily impose reserve requirements in order to protect its collateral position. Our operations are dependant upon our ability to access liquidity under this facility. As we rationalize our ethanol sourcing and distribution network, we are quickly and significantly reducing the amount of collateral available for borrowing. As a result, the administrative agent for our secured revolving credit facility may become concerned as to the adequacy or sufficiency of their collateral. Should the agent for our secured revolving credit facility impose reserves which limit or reduce the availability under this facility, the negative impact on our liquidity could be significant, which could materially adversely affect our business. 20 Table of Contents Our strategic plan includes reducing the number of terminals in which we have lease commitments and reducing the number of railcars under lease through either re-assignment of railcar leases or through sub-leasing. Should we be unsuccessful in negotiating the termination of these obligations without material penalties, or should we not receive payments under these sub-lease agreements as expected, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our fixed commitment for the leasing of terminals and railcars is substantial. Our business plan for 2009 includes significantly reducing the number of terminals and railcars we lease, including through assignments and subleases. Although we believe we will be able to negotiate the termination or sublease of these leases without any material expense or penalties, there can be no assurance that we will be successful. In addition, to the extent that we sublease these terminals and railcars, we will remain responsible in the event that any sublessee fails to fulfill its commitments. Should we be unsuccessful in achieving these expectations, we may be liable for significant damages. Should we be unsuccessful in negotiating the termination of these obligations without material penalties, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our common stock may be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. Our common stock is currently listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”). We may fail to comply with the continued listing requirements of the NYSE, which may result in the delisting of our common stock. The NYSE rules require, among other things, that the minimum market capitalization of a listed company’s common stock be at least $15 million (temporarily reduced from the $25 million requirement through June 30, 2009). Since February 17, 2009, we have not met that requirement. If we fail to meet that requirement for 30 consecutive trading days we will be subject to delisting by the NYSE. As of March 6, 2009, we have not met the 30 consecutive trading day requirement. In addition, the continued listing requirements of the NYSE require that the minimum trading price of our common stock be at least $1.00. The minimum trading price requirement has been suspended until June 30, 2009. We have not satisfied the minimum trading price requirement since November 14, 2008. If we failed to comply with the minimum listing price requirement as of or after June 30, 2009 and were unable to cure such defect within the six months following the receipt of any notice from the NYSE regarding our failure to achieve the minimum listing price of our common stock, the NYSE might delist our common stock. Additionally, we may receive a notice of delisting from the NYSE due to our failure to exceed the amended 30 consecutive trading day market capitalization standard. Delisting would have an adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock and, as a result, the market price for our common stock might become more volatile. Delisting could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. The spread between ethanol and corn prices can vary significantly and our profitability from gallons produced at our facilities is dependent on this spread. Gross profit on gallons produced at our facilities, which accounts for the substantial majority of our operating income or loss, is principally dependent on the spread between ethanol and corn prices. We experienced negative gross margins in the second half of 2008 and expect negative gross margins to continue at least through the first quarter of 2009 due in part to our fixed price obligations to purchase corn and natural gas at or above current market prices. The U.S. ethanol industry generally is operating at or near breakeven gross margins. The current spread between ethanol and corn prices cannot support the long-term viability of the U.S. ethanol industry in general or us in particular. If the expected increase in ethanol demand does not occur, or if the demand for ethanol otherwise decreases, the excess capacity in our industry may increase further. Domestic ethanol capacity has increased significantly from 1.3 billion gallons per year in 1997 to 12.5 billion gallons per year at the end of 2008. In addition, there is a significant amount of ethanol capacity currently under construction. According to the RFA, as of December 2008, approximately 2.1 billion 21 Table of Contents gallons per year of production capacity is currently under construction. Despite demand growth, increased penetration in new markets, and a government mandate, U.S. production capacity increased by 42.3% in 2008 while demand increased by only 40.7%. In addition, at the end of 2008, there was approximately 2 billion gallons of production capacity shut-in. Demand for ethanol may not increase as quickly as expected or to a level that exceeds supply, or may not increase at all. As a result of the excess ethanol capacity in the second half of 2008 the industry was operating at or near breakeven gross margins. If the ethanol industry continues to have excess capacity, it could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive industry with low barriers to entry. In the U.S., we compete with other corn processors and refiners, including Archer-Daniels-Midland Company, Biofuels Energy Corporation, Hawkeye Holdings, Inc., Pacific Ethanol, Cargill, Inc. and A.E. Staley Manufacturing Company, a subsidiary of Tate & Lyle, PLC. Some of our competitors are divisions of larger enterprises and have greater financial resources than we do. Although many of our competitors are larger than we are, we also have smaller competitors. Farm cooperatives comprised of groups of individual farmers have been able to compete successfully. As of December 2008, the top ten domestic producers accounted for approximately 46.6% of all production. If our competitors consolidate or otherwise grow and/or we are unable to similarly increase our size and scope, our business and prospects may be significantly and adversely affected. We also face increasing competition from international suppliers. Although there is a tariff on foreign produced ethanol that is slightly larger than the federal ethanol tax incentive, ethanol imports equivalent to up to 7% of total domestic production from certain countries were exempted from this tariff under the CBI (The Caribbean Basin Initiative) to spur economic development in Central America and the Caribbean. Our competitors also include plants owned by farmers who earn their livelihood through the sale of corn, and hence may not be as focused on obtaining optimal value for their produced ethanol as we are. Our business is dependent upon the availability and price of corn. Significant disruptions in the supply of corn will materially affect our operating results. In addition, since we generally cannot pass on increases in corn prices to our customers, continued periods of historically high corn prices will also materially adversely affect our operating results. The principal raw material we use to produce ethanol and ethanol by-products is corn. In 2008, we purchased approximately 71.4 million bushels of corn at a cost of $358.4 million, which comprised about 71% of our total cost of production. In 2008, our average corn cost ranged from a low of $4.26 per bushel in January 2008 to a high of $6.07 per bushel in August 2008. Corn prices began to rise significantly beginning in September 2006. We believe a systemic shift has occurred in the marketplace for corn, and the price of corn will remain significantly higher than the historical averages. The vast increase in U.S. ethanol capacity under construction could outpace increases in corn production, which may further increase corn prices and significantly impact our profitability. Changes in the price of corn have had an impact on our business. In general, higher corn prices produce lower profit margins and, therefore, represent unfavorable market conditions. This is especially true when market conditions do not allow us to pass along increased corn costs to our customers. At certain levels, corn prices may make ethanol uneconomical to use in markets and volumes above the requirements set forth in the renewable fuels standard or for which ethanol is used as an oxygenate in order to meet federal and state fuel emission standards. 22 Table of Contents The price of corn is influenced by general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include weather conditions, farmer planting decisions, government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade and global demand and supply. The significance and relative impact of these factors on the price of corn is difficult to predict. Factors such as severe weather or crop disease could have an adverse impact on our business because we may be unable to pass on higher corn costs to our customers. Any event that tends to negatively impact the supply of corn will tend to increase prices and potentially harm our business. The increasing ethanol capacity could boost demand for corn and result in increased prices for corn. We expect the price of corn to continue to remain at levels that would be considered as high when compared to historical periods. In an attempt to partially offset the effects of fluctuations in corn costs on operating income, we take hedging positions in the corn futures markets. However, these hedging transactions also involve risk to our business. See ‘‘Item 1A –Risk Factors — We may engage in hedging and derivative transactions which involve risks that can harm our business.’’ Growth in the sale and distribution of ethanol is dependent on the changes in and expansion of related infrastructure, which may not occur on a timely basis, if at all, and our operations could be adversely affected by infrastructure disruptions. Substantial development of infrastructure by persons and entities outside our control are required for our operations and the ethanol industry generally, to grow. Areas requiring expansion include, but are not limited to, additional rail capacity, additional storage facilities for ethanol, increases in truck fleets capable of transporting ethanol within localized markets, expansion of refining and blending facilities to handle ethanol, growth in service stations equipped to handle ethanol fuels, and growth in the fleet of flexible fuel vehicles capable of using E85 fuel. Substantial investments required for these infrastructure changes and expansions may not be made or they may not be made on a timely basis. Any delay or failure in making the changes in or expansion of infrastructure could hurt the demand or prices for our products, impede our delivery of products, impose additional costs on us or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business is dependent on the continuing availability of infrastructure and any infrastructure disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in the demand for gasoline may reduce demand for ethanol. Ethanol is marketed as an oxygenate to reduce vehicle emissions from gasoline, as an octane enhancer to improve the octane rating of gasoline with which it is blended and as a fuel extender. As a result, ethanol demand has historically been influenced by the supply of and demand for gasoline. If gasoline demand decreases, our ability to sell our product and our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. The use and demand for ethanol and its supply are highly dependent on various federal and state legislation and regulation, and any changes in legislation or regulation could cause the demand for ethanol to decline or its supply to increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Various federal and state laws, regulations and programs have led to increased use of ethanol in fuel. For example, certain laws, regulations and programs provide economic incentives to ethanol producers and users. Among these regulations are (1) the renewable fuels standard, which requires an increasing amount of renewable fuels to be used in the U.S. each year, (2) the VEETC, which provided a tax credit of $0.51 per gallon (prior to January 1, 2009 when it was reduced to $0.45 per gallon) on 10% ethanol blends that is set to expire in 2010, (3) the small ethanol producer tax credit, for which we do not qualify 23 Table of Contents because of the size of our ethanol plants, and (4) the federal “farm bill,” which establishes federal subsidies for agricultural commodities including corn, our primary feedstock. These laws, regulations and programs are constantly changing. Federal and state legislators and environmental regulators could adopt or modify laws, regulations or programs that could adversely affect the use of ethanol. In addition, certain state legislatures oppose the use of ethanol because they must ship ethanol in from other corn-producing states, which could significantly increase gasoline prices in the state. If we cannot increase the amount of non-corn based ethanol, cellulosic biofuels or bio-mass based diesel we produce, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 established a revised renewable fuels standard, or RFS, for the years 2006 through 2022. The RFS sets forth the minimum amount of renewable fuels that must be present in U.S. transportation fuels. By 2015, approximately half of the renewable fuels required to meet the RFS must be non-corn-based ethanol and by 2021, nearly all must be non-corn-based ethanol. If our and our competitors’ facilities cannot accept feedstocks, other than corn, or if we do not begin producing non-corn based ethanol in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Certain countries can import ethanol into the U.S. duty free, which may undermine the ethanol industry in the U.S. Imported ethanol is generally subject to a $0.54 per gallon tariff and a 2.5% ad valorem tax that was designed to offset the $0.45 per gallon ethanol subsidy currently available under the federal excise tax incentive program for refineries and blenders that mix ethanol with their gasoline. At a certain price level, imported ethanol may become profitable for sale in the U.S. despite the tariff. This occurred in 2006, due to a spike in the ethanol prices and insufficient supply. As a result, there may effectively be a ceiling on U.S. ethanol prices. This, combined with uncertainties surrounding U.S. producers’ ability to meet domestic demand, resulted in significant imports of ethanol, especially from Brazil. Furthermore, East Coast facilities are better suited to bringing in product by water rather than rail (the preferred path for ethanol from the Midwest). The combination made it more economic for some buyers to import ethanol with the full import duty than to bring supplies from the Midwest. Given the increase in ethanol demand as a result of the new RFS and potential transportation bottlenecks delivering material from the Midwest, imports of ethanol could rise. There is a special exemption from the tariff for ethanol imported from 24 countries in Central America and the Caribbean islands which is limited to a total of 7% of U.S. production per year (with additional exemptions for ethanol produced from feedstock in the Caribbean region over the 7% limit). In addition the NAFTA (The North America Free Trade Agreement which was signed into law January 1, 1994) countries, Canada and Mexico, are exempt from duty. See ‘‘Item 1 – Business — Legislative Drivers and Governmental Regulations — The federal ethanol tax incentive program.’’ Imports from the exempted countries have increased in recent years and are expected to increase further as a result of new plants under development. We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and permit conditions (and interpretations thereof), including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, and the health and safety of our employees. These laws, regulations, and permits require us to incur significant capital and other costs, including costs to obtain and maintain expensive pollution control equipment. They may also require us to make operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the 24 Table of Contents environment. A violation of these laws, regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, natural resource damages, criminal sanctions, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns. In addition, environmental laws and regulations (and interpretations thereof) change over time, and any such changes, more vigorous enforcement policies or the discovery of currently unknown conditions may require substantial additional environmental expenditures. We are also subject to potential liability for the investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination at each of the properties that we own or operate and at off-site locations where we arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes. For instance, soil and groundwater contamination has been identified in the past at our Illinois campus. If any of these sites are subject to investigation and/or remediation requirements, we may be responsible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act or other environmental laws for all or part of the costs of such investigation and/or remediation, and for damages to natural resources. We may also be subject to related claims by private parties alleging property damage or personal injury due to exposure to hazardous or other materials at or from such properties. We have not accrued any amounts for environmental matters as of December 31, 2008. The ultimate costs of any liabilities that may be identified or the discovery of additional contaminants could adversely impact our results of operation or financial condition. In addition, the hazards and risks associated with producing and transporting our products (such as fires, natural disasters, explosions, abnormal pressures and spills) may result in spills or releases of hazardous substances, and may result in claims from governmental authorities or third parties relating to actual or alleged personal injury, property damage, or damages to natural resources. We maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses caused by our operations. Our coverage includes, but is not limited to, physical damage to assets, employer's liability, comprehensive general liability, automobile liability and workers' compensation. We do not carry environmental insurance. We believe that our insurance is adequate for our industry, but losses could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of events which result in significant personal injury or damage to our property, natural resources or third parties that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our air emissions are subject to the federal Clean Air Act, as amended, and similar state laws which generally require us to obtain and maintain air emission permits for our ongoing operations as well as for any expansion of existing facilities or any new facilities. Obtaining and maintaining those permits requires us to incur costs, and any future more stringent standards may result in increased costs and may limit or interfere with our operating flexibility. In addition, the permits ultimately issued may impose conditions which are more costly to implement than we had anticipated. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and could adversely affect us in our efforts to compete with foreign producers not subject to such stringent requirements. Federal and state environmental authorities have been investigating alleged excess VOC emissions and other air emissions from many U.S. ethanol plants, including our Illinois facilities. The investigation relating to our Illinois wet mill facility is still pending, and we could be required to install additional air pollution control equipment or take other measures to control air pollutant emissions at that facility. If authorities require us to install controls, we would anticipate that costs would be higher than the approximately $3.4 million we incurred in connection with a similar matter at our Nebraska facility due to the larger size of the Illinois wet mill facility. In addition, if the authorities determine our emissions were in violation of applicable law, we would likely be required to pay fines that could be material. We have made, and expect to continue making, significant capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with increasingly stringent environmental laws, regulations and permits, including compliance with the EPA National Emissions Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants, or NESHAP, for industrial, 25 Table of Contents commercial and institutional boilers and process heaters. This NESHAP was issued but subsequently vacated. The vacated version of the rule required us to implement maximum achievable control technology at our Illinois wet mill facility to reduce hazardous air pollutant emissions from our boilers. We expect the EPA will revise the rule to impose more stringent requirements than were contained in the vacated version. In the absence of a final EPA NESHAP for industrial, commercial and institutional boilers and process heaters, we are working with state authorities to determine what technology will be required at our Illinois wet mill facility and when such technology must be installed. We currently cannot estimate the amount that will be needed to comply with any future federal or state technology requirement regarding air emissions from our boilers. We currently generate revenue from the sale of carbon dioxide, which is a co-product of the ethanol production process at each of our Illinois and Nebraska facilities. New laws or regulations relating to the production, disposal or emissions of carbon dioxide may require us to incur significant additional costs and may also adversely affect our ability to continue generating revenue from carbon dioxide sales. In particular, Illinois and five other Midwestern states have entered into the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord, a program which directs participating states to develop a multi-sector cap-and-trade mechanism to help achieve reductions in greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide. It is possible this program could require carbon dioxide emissions reductions from our Pekin, Illinois plants, which could result in significant costs. In addition, it is possible that other states in which we conduct or plan to conduct business, including Nebraska and Indiana, could join this accord or that federal, state or local regulators could require other costly carbon dioxide emissions reductions or offsets. We may engage in hedging or derivative transactions which involve risks that can harm our business. In an attempt to minimize the effects of the volatility of the price of corn, natural gas, electricity and ethanol (‘‘commodities’’), we may take economic hedging positions in the commodities. Economic hedging arrangements also expose us to the risk of financial loss in situations where the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract or there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price of the commodities. Although we attempt to link our economic hedging activities to sales plans and pricing activities, occasionally such hedging activities can themselves result in losses. For example, we expect our negative gross margins to continue at least through the first quarter of 2009 due in part to our fixed price obligations to purchase corn and natural gas at or above current market prices. There can be no assurance that additional losses will not occur. Alternatively, we may choose not to engage in hedging transactions in the future. As a result, our results of operations may be adversely affected during periods in which corn and/or natural gas prices increase. We are substantially dependent on our three facilities and any operational disruption could result in a reduction of our sales volumes and could cause us to incur substantial expenditures. The substantial majority of our net income is derived from the sale of ethanol and the related bio-products and co-products that we produce at our Illinois facilities and our Nebraska facility. Our operations may be subject to significant interruption if either of the Illinois facilities or Nebraska facility experiences a major accident or is damaged by severe weather or other natural disaster. In addition, our operations may be subject to labor disruptions and unscheduled downtime, or other hazards inherent in our industry. Some of those hazards may cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension or termination of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. As protection against these hazards, we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance which we believe is in accordance with customary industry practices, but we cannot provide any assurance that this insurance will be adequate to fully cover the potential hazards described above or that we will be able to renew this insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 26 Table of Contents The market for natural gas is subject to market conditions that create uncertainty in the price and availability of the natural gas that we utilize in our manufacturing process. We rely upon third parties for our supply of natural gas which is consumed in the production of ethanol. The prices for and availability of natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by factors beyond our control such as weather conditions, overall economic conditions and foreign and domestic governmental regulation and relations. Significant disruptions in the supply of natural gas could temporarily impair our ability to produce ethanol for our customers. Further, increases in natural gas prices or changes in our natural gas costs relative to natural gas costs paid by competitors may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The price fluctuation in natural gas prices over the nine year period from 2000 through December 31, 2008, based on the New York Mercantile Exchange, or NYMEX, daily futures data, has ranged from a low of $1.63 per MMBtu in 1999 to a high of $15.38 per MMBtu in December 2005. We currently use approximately 3.4 million MMBtu’s of natural gas annually, depending upon business conditions, in the manufacture of our products. Our usage of natural gas will increase with the planned expansion of our production facilities. In an attempt to minimize the effects of fluctuations in natural gas costs on operating income, we may take hedging positions in the natural gas forward or futures markets; however, these hedging transactions also involve risk to our operations. Since natural gas prices are volatile should we not take hedging positions, as occurs from time to time, our results could be adversely affected by an increase in natural gas prices. See “— We may engage in hedging transactions which involve risks that can harm our business.” Our fixed price and gasoline related contracts for ethanol may be at a price level lower than the prevailing price. At any given time, our contract prices for ethanol may be at a price level different from the current prevailing price, and such a difference could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These contracts typically provide for delivery from one month to one year later. As of December 31, 2008 we had contracted to sell 4.2 million gallons of ethanol at an average fixed price of $2.41. We have also contracted to sell 4.9 million gallons of ethanol at an average negative spread of $0.55 per gallon to the wholesale value of gasoline at the time of delivery and 134.5 million gallons of ethanol at the spot price at the time of delivery. These contracts provide for delivery throughout 2009, but they are heavily weighted towards the first quarter of 2009. Changes in ethanol prices can affect the value of our inventory which may significantly affect our profitability. Our distribution system allows us to carry an inventory of ethanol to better serve our customers and to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. Our inventory is valued based upon a weighted average price we pay for ethanol that we purchase from our marketing alliance partners and our purchase/resale transactions, along with our own cost to produce ethanol. We occasionally increase our inventory, in order to profit when we believe market prices will rise. Changes, either upward or downward, in our purchased cost of ethanol or our own production costs, will cause the inventory value to fluctuate from period to period, perhaps significantly. These changes in value flow through our statement of operations as the inventory is sold or its value is deemed to be impaired and can significantly increase or decrease our profitability. We may recognize income from cancellation of indebtedness as a result of the senior unsecured note exchange offer. 27 Table of Contents Except as described in the next paragraph, if the exchange offer for our 10% fixed rate notes is consummated we will recognize, in the year of the exchange, income from cancellation of indebtedness (“COD”) as a result of the exchange to the extent that the fair market value of the equity shares of our common stock and the issue price of the new notes, such issue price being determined based on the fair market value of the new notes, is less than the principal amount of, and accrued but unpaid interest on, the outstanding senior unsecured notes. Although the precise amount of COD income that we will realize cannot be determined until the date of the exchange, based on current estimates we believe that the amount of COD income we could realize will be approximately $260 million. There are two exceptions to the current recognition of COD income that may apply to us. Under the “insolvency” exception, we will not be required to realize COD income on the exchange to the extent that, immediately prior to the exchange, we are “insolvent” for tax purposes (generally, the extent to which the fair market value of our assets is less than our liabilities). To the extent COD income is excluded under the insolvency exception, we will be required to reduce certain of our tax attributes (principally, the tax basis in our assets). Among other things, this would have the effect of reducing our future depreciation deductions. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) added a second exception to the immediate realization of COD income, which would permit us to elect to defer the current recognition of any COD income resulting from the exchange, and instead recognize any such income ratably over a five-year period beginning in 2014. If we make this election, we would be required to defer the deduction of all or a substantial portion of any “original issue discount” (“OID”) that accrues on the new notes prior to 2014, and would be allowed to claim such deferred deductions only ratably over the same five-year period. If we make this election, the insolvency exception described above would not apply. ARRA also added an exception to the rules that generally apply to “applicable high yield discount obligations,” which will permit us to deduct any OID on the new notes without regard to such rules, which would otherwise have the effect of disallowing a substantial portion of our OID deductions on the new notes. We are currently considering whether to make the election described in the preceding paragraph or to rely on the insolvency exception in the event that we successfully complete the senior unsecured note exchange offer. Our decision will depend on, among other things, the extent to which we believe we would be insolvent for tax purposes at the time of the exchange and estimates of our future taxable income or loss depending on whether we make the election described above or rely on the insolvency exception. Regardless of whether we make the election or rely on the insolvency exception, we do not expect the exchange, if successfully completed, to result in a material current cash tax liability for the company. Our ability to use certain of our tax attributes in the future may be limited. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code limits the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, which is generally any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year period, to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards and certain built-in losses (generally, the excess of the tax basis in an asset over its fair market value) following the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. While we do not believe that we have to date experienced an ownership change under Section 382, we could experience an ownership change in the future as a result of changes in the ownership of our stock or future issuances of our stock, including pursuant to the senior unsecured note exchange offer. We currently have a substantial net unrealized built-in loss in our assets. If we undergo an ownership change for purposes of Section 382, our ability to recognize our built-in losses (including in the form of depreciation deductions on our assets) during the five-year period after the date of any ownership change would be subject to the limitations of Section 382. Depending on the resulting limitation, our ability to use a significant portion of our future depreciation deductions could be limited, which could have the 28 Table of Contents effect of creating or increasing our tax liabilities in years after such an ownership change, and have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. We depend on rail, truck and barge transportation for delivery of corn to us and the distribution of ethanol to our customers. We depend on rail, truck and barge to deliver corn to us and to distribute ethanol to the terminals currently in our network. Ethanol is not currently distributed by pipeline. Disruption to the timely supply of these transportation services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including the availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, or labor stoppages in the transportation industry, could have an adverse effect on our ability to supply corn to our production facilities or to distribute ethanol to our terminals, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Consumer resistance to the use of ethanol may affect the demand for ethanol, which could affect our ability to market our product. Media reports in the mainstream press indicate that some consumers believe the use of ethanol will have a negative impact on retail gasoline prices or is the reason for increases in food prices. Many also believe that ethanol adds to air pollution and harms car and truck engines. Still other consumers believe that the process of producing ethanol actually uses more fossil energy, such as oil and natural gas, than the amount of energy produced by ethanol. These consumer beliefs could be wide-spread in the future. If consumers choose not to buy ethanol blended fuels, it would affect the demand for the ethanol we produce which could lower demand for our product and negatively affect our profitability. Various studies have criticized the efficiency of ethanol, which could lead to the reduction or repeal of incentives and tariffs that promote the use and domestic production of ethanol. Although many trade groups, academics and governmental agencies have supported ethanol as a fuel additive that promotes a cleaner environment, others have criticized ethanol production as consuming considerably more energy and emitting more greenhouse gases than other biofuels. In particular, two February 2008 studies conclude the current production of corn-based ethanol results in more greenhouse gas emissions than conventional fuels if both direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, including those resulting from land use changes resulting from planting crops for ethanol feedstocks, are taken into account. Other studies have suggested that corn-based ethanol is less efficient than ethanol produced from switch grass or wheat grain. If these views gain acceptance, support for existing measures promoting use and domestic production of corn-based ethanol could decline, leading to reduction or repeal of these measures. Research is currently underway to develop production of biobutanol, a product that could directly compete with ethanol and may have more potential advantages than ethanol. Biobutanol, an advanced biofuel produced from agricultural feedstock, is currently being developed by various parties, including a partnership between BP and DuPont. According to the partnership, biobutanol has many advantages over ethanol. The advantages include: low vapor pressure, making it more easily added to gasoline; energy content closer to that of gasoline, such that the decrease in fuel economy caused by the blending of biobutanol with gasoline is less than that of other biofuels when blended with gasoline; it can be blended at higher concentration than other biofuels for use in standard vehicles; it is less susceptible to separation when water is present than in pure ethanol-gasoline blends; and it is expected to be potentially suitable for transportation in gas pipelines, resulting in a possible cost advantage over ethanol producers relying on rail transportation. Although BP and DuPont have not announced a timeline for producing biobutanol on a large scale, if biobutanol production comes online in 29 Table of Contents the United States, biobutonal could have a competitive advantage over ethanol and could make it more difficult to market our ethanol, which could reduce our ability to generate revenue and profits. We, and some of our major customers, have unionized employees and could be adversely affected by labor disputes. Some of our employees and some employees of our major customers are unionized. At December 31, 2008, approximately 48% of our employees were unionized. Our unionized employees are hourly workers located at our Illinois facilities. The unionized employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement between our subsidiary, Aventine Renewable Energy, Inc. and the United Steelworkers International Union, Local 7-662. Our existing contract with the United Steelworkers International Union Local 7-662 expires in October 2009. While we generally believe our relations between the Company and Local 7-662 are good, there can be no assurances that we will be able to timely and successfully negotiate a new labor contract whose terms allow us to operate our business in today’s difficult operating environment. If we are unable to timely and successfully negotiate a new labor contract, our business may be disrupted and our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively affected. We have a significant stockholder whose interests may differ from your interests and who may be able to exert significant influence over corporate decisions of the Company. Through their ownership of Aventine Renewable Energy Holdings LLC, the MSCP funds beneficially own approximately 27.5% of our outstanding common stock. Metalmark Subadvisor LLC, an affiliate of Metalmark, an independent private equity firm established by former principals of Morgan Stanley Capital Partners, manages certain MSCP funds on a sub-advisory basis. In January 2008 substantially all of the employees of Metalmark became employees of Citi Alternative Investments Inc., although Metalmark remains an independent entity owned by those individuals and continues to manage the applicable MSCP funds on a sub-advisory basis. Two of our directors, Messrs. Abramson and Hoffman, are currently employees of both Metalmark and Citigroup. As a result, Metalmark may be deemed to control our management and policies. Metalmark may have an interest in pursuing transactions that, in their judgment, enhance the value of the applicable funds’ equity investment in our Company, even though those transactions may involve risks to you as a stockholder. In addition, circumstances could arise under which the interests of Metalmark could be in conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. For example, Metalmark has and may in the future make significant investments in other companies, some of which may be competitors. Metalmark is not obligated to advise us of any investment or business opportunities of which they are aware, and they are not restricted or prohibited from competing with us. The relationship between the sales price of our co-products and the price we pay for corn can fluctuate significantly which may affect our results of operations and profitability. We sell co-products and bio-products that are remnants of the ethanol production process in order to reduce our costs and increase profitability. Historically, sales prices for these co-products have tracked along with the price of corn. However, there have been occasions when the value of these co-products and bio-products has lagged behind increases in corn prices. As a result, we may occasionally generate less revenue from the sale of these co-products and bio-products relative to the price of corn. In addition, several of our co-products compete with similar products made from other plant feedstock. The cost of these other feedstocks may not have risen as corn prices have risen. Consequently, the price we may 30 Table of Contents receive for these products may not rise as corn prices rise, thereby lowering our cost recovery percentage relative to corn. Due to recent and planned industry increases in U.S. dry mill ethanol production, the production of DDGS in the U.S. has increased dramatically, and this trend may continue. This may cause DDGS prices to fall in the U.S., unless demand increases or other market sources are found. To date, demand for DDGS in the U.S. has increased roughly in proportion to supply. We believe this is because U.S. farmers use DDGS as a feedstock, and DDGS are slightly less expensive than corn, for which it is a substitute. However, if prices for DDGS in the U.S. fall, it may have an adverse effect on our business, which might be material. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by technological advances. The development and implementation of new technologies may result in a significant reduction in the costs of ethanol production. We cannot predict when new technologies may become available, the rate of acceptance of new technologies by our competitors or the costs associated with such new technologies. In addition, advances in the development of alternatives to ethanol, or corn ethanol in particular, could significantly reduce demand for or eliminate the need for ethanol, or corn ethanol in particular, as a fuel oxygenate or octane enhancer. Any advances in technology which require significant capital expenditures for us to remain competitive or which otherwise reduce demand for ethanol will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The requirements of complying with the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may strain our resources and distract management. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including Section 404. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, corporate governance standards and internal controls over financial reporting. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our management has delivered a report that assesses the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight may be required as we have to devote additional time and personnel to legal, financial and accounting activities to ensure our ongoing compliance with public company reporting requirements. This may cause management’s attention to be diverted away from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, in order to remain in compliance, we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge, and might not be able to do so in a timely fashion. Risks associated with the operation of our production facilities may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our revenue is dependent on the continued operation of our various production facilities. The operation of production plants involves many risks including: · the breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment or processes; · inclement weather and natural disasters; 31 Table of Contents · the need to comply with directives of, and maintain all necessary permits from, governmental agencies; · raw material supply disruptions; · labor force shortages, work stoppages, or other labor difficulties; and · transportation disruptions. The occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to the above events, may have an adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular facility, or to us as a whole. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our ability to operate effectively may be impaired. Our ability to operate our business and implement strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. Our management philosophy of cost-control means that we operate with a limited number of corporate personnel, and our commitment to a less centralized organization also places greater emphasis on the strength of local management. Our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel, particularly executive management. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel, domestically or abroad, could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects. If our internal computer network and applications suffer disruptions or fail to operate as designed, our operations will be disrupted and our business may be harmed. We rely on network infrastructure and enterprise applications, and internal technology systems for our operational, marketing support and sales, and product development activities. The hardware and software systems related to such activities are subject to damage from earthquakes, floods, lightning, tornadoes, fire, power loss, telecommunication failures and other similar events. They are also subject to acts such as computer viruses, physical or electronic vandalism or other similar disruptions that could cause system interruptions and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from fulfilling our customers’ orders. We have developed disaster recovery plans and backup systems to reduce the potentially adverse effects of such events, but there are no assurances such plans and systems would be sufficient. Any event that causes failures or interruption in our hardware or software systems could result in disruption of our business operations, have a negative impact on our operating results, and damage our reputation. We and our subsidiaries are not contractually restricted from incurring substantial additional indebtedness. This could further exacerbate the risks that we and our subsidiaries face. We and our subsidiaries are not contractually restricted from incurring substantial indebtedness in the future. Our planned capacity increases require us to incur substantial additional indebtedness. If new debt is added, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: · our common stock could be delisted by the NYSE; · quarterly variations in our operating results; · changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; · failure to meet analysts’ or our own revenue or earnings estimates; 32 Table of Contents · speculation in the press or investment community; · strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; · the impact of the risks discussed herein and our ability to react effectively to those risks; · limited trading volume of our common stock; · a change in technology that may add to production costs; · actions by institutional stockholders; · general market conditions; and · domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Limited trading volume of our common stock may contribute to its price volatility. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. For the period of January 2, 2008 to December 31, 2008, the average daily trading volume of our common stock as reported by Bloomberg L.P. was approximately 818,000 shares. It is uncertain whether a more active trading market in our common stock will develop. If a significant number of analysts were to discontinue coverage of our common stock, our trading volume may be further reduced. As a result, relatively small trades could potentially have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, which could increase the volatility and depress the price of our stock. Future sales of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our ability to raise capital in the equity markets. In the future, we may sell additional shares of our common stock in public or private offerings. Shares of our common stock are also available for future sales pursuant to stock options and/or restricted stock that we have granted to certain employees and directors, and in the future we may grant additional stock options and/or restricted stock to our employees and directors. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for shares of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and in other agreements may delay or prevent an acquisition of Aventine, which could decrease the value of our common stock. Provisions in our amended certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware corporate law and our stockholder rights plan may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include a classified board of directors, removal of directors only for cause, and the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings. Although we believe these provisions provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, under the indenture governing our senior unsecured 10% fixed-rate notes, in the event a change in control occurs, we may be required to repurchase all of our outstanding senior unsecured 10% fixed-rate notes at 101% of their original aggregate principal amount plus accrued interest. A change in control, without an appropriate waiver or amendment, would also result in an event of default or amortization event under our secured revolving credit facility. 33 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved comments. 34 Table of Contents 