risk factors and all other information contained in this Report. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of the events described in these risks. If a significant number of clients fail to perform under their loans, our business, profitability, and financial condition would be adversely affected. As a lender, one of the largest risks we face is the possibility that a significant number of our client borrowers will fail to pay their loans when due. If borrower defaults cause losses in excess of our allowance for loan losses, it could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability, and financial condition. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. Although this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of loan losses are dependent to a great extent on our experience and judgment. Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is at a level adequate to absorb any inherent losses in our loan portfolio, we may find it necessary to further increase the allowance for loan losses or our regulators may require us to increase this allowance. If we are unable to effectively measure and limit the risk of default associated with our loan portfolio, our business, financial condition, and profitability may be adversely impacted. Increases in the level of non-performing loans could adversely affect our business, profitability, and financial condition. Increase in non-performing loans could have an adverse effect on our earnings as a result of related increases in our provisions for loan losses, charge-offs, and other losses related to non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could potentially lead to a decline in earnings could deplete our capital, leaving the Company undercapitalized. Non-performing loans for the year ended December 31, 2012 were $28.0 million, compared to $43.8 million, at the end of 2011, and $71.2 million at the end of 2010. Increases in our allowance for loan losses could materially affect our earnings adversely. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. Our allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. However, actual loan losses could increase significantly as the result of changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which are generally beyond our control. In addition, actual loan losses could increase significantly as a result of deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting. Thus, such losses could exceed our current allowance estimates. Either of these occurrences could materially affect our earnings adversely. In addition, the FDIC and the DFI, as an integral part of their respective supervisory functions, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. Such regulatory agencies may require us to increase our provision for losses on loans and loan commitments or to recognize further loan charge-offs, based upon judgments different from those of management. Any increase in our allowance required by the FDIC or the DFI could adversely affect us. Banking organizations are subject to interest rate risk and changes in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. A major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and other borrowings, and the interest rates we receive on interest-earning assets, such as loans we extend to our clients and 32 Table of Contents securities held in our investment portfolio. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. While the federal funds rate and other short-term market interest rates was previously decreased substantially, the intermediate and long-term market interest rates, which are used by many banking organizations to guide loan pricing, have not decreased proportionately. This has led to a "steepening" of the market yield curve with short-term rates considerably lower than long-term notes. We may not be able to minimize our interest rate risk. In addition, while a decrease in the general level of interest rates may improve the ability of certain borrowers with variable rate loans to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations, it reduces our interest income, and may lead to an increase in competition among banks for deposits. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, net interest margin and our overall profitability. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations, meet our obligations as they become due and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations, meet our obligations as they become due and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. Liquidity risk is the potential that the Bank will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory actions against us. Market conditions or other events could also negatively affect the level or cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. Although management has implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in assets and liabilities under both normal and adverse conditions, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The profitability of Wilshire Bancorp is dependent on the profitability of the Bank. Because Wilshire Bancorp's principal activity is to act as the holding company of the Bank, the profitability of Wilshire Bancorp is largely dependent on the profitability of the Bank. The Bank operates in an extremely competitive banking environment, competing with a number of banks and other financial institutions which possess greater financial resources than those available to the Bank, in addition to other independent banks. In addition, the banking business is affected by general economic and political conditions, both domestic and international, and by government monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international terrorism and other disorders as well as other factors beyond the control of the Bank may adversely affect its profitability. Banks are also subject to extensive governmental supervision, regulation and control, and future legislation and government policy could adversely affect the banking industry and the operations of the Bank. Wilshire Bancorp relies heavily on the payment of dividends from the Bank. The Bank is the only source of significant income for Wilshire Bancorp. Accordingly, the ability of Wilshire Bancorp to meet its debt service requirements and to pay dividends depends on the ability of the 33 Table of Contents Bank to pay dividends to it. However, the Bank is subject to regulations limiting the amount of dividends that it may pay to Wilshire Bancorp. For example, any payment of dividends by the Bank is subject to the FDIC's capital adequacy guidelines. All banks and bank holding companies are required to maintain a minimum ratio of qualifying total capital to total risk-weighted assets of 8.00%, at least one-half of which must be in the form of Tier 1 capital, and a ratio of Tier 1 capital to average adjusted assets of 4.00%. If (i) the FDIC increases any of these required ratios; (ii) the total of risk-weighted assets of the Bank increases significantly; and/or (iii) the Bank's income decreases significantly, the Bank's Board of Directors may decide or be required to retain a greater portion of the Bank's earnings to achieve and maintain the required capital or asset ratios. This will reduce the amount of funds available for the payment of dividends by the Bank to Wilshire Bancorp. Further, in some cases, the FDIC could take the position that it has the power to prohibit the Bank from paying dividends if, in its view, such payments would constitute unsafe or unsound banking practices. In addition, whether dividends are paid and their frequency and amount will depend on the financial condition and performance, and the discretion of the Board of Directors of the Bank. The foregoing restrictions on dividends paid by the Bank may limit Wilshire Bancorp's ability to obtain funds from such dividends for its cash needs, including funds for payment of its debt service requirements and operating expenses and for payment of cash dividends to Wilshire Bancorp's shareholders. As of December 31, 2012, the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company without prior regulatory approval. Income that we recognized and continue to recognize in connection with our 2009 FDIC-assisted Mirae Bank acquisition may be non-recurring or finite in duration. On June 26, 2009, we acquired the banking operations of Mirae Bank from the FDIC. Through the acquisition, we acquired approximately $395.6 million of assets and assumed $374.0 million of liabilities. The Mirae Bank acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting and we recorded a bargain purchase gain totaling $21.7 million as a result of the acquisition. This gain was included as a component of noninterest income on our statement of income for 2009. The amount of the gain was equal to the amount by which the fair value of assets purchased exceeded the fair value of liabilities. The bargain purchase gain resulting from the acquisition was a one-time, extraordinary gain that is not expected to be repeated in future periods. In addition, the loans that we acquired from Mirae Bank were acquired at a $54.9 million discount. This discount is amortized and accreted to interest income on a monthly basis. However, as these loans are paid-off, charged-off, sold, or transferred to non-accrual status, the income from the discount accretion is reduced. As the acquired loans are removed from our books, the related discount will no longer be available for accretion into income. Accretion of $1.9 million, $2.4 million, and $4.0 million on loans purchased at a discount was recorded as interest income during 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, the balance of the carrying value of our discount on loans was $3.4 million, which declined by $3.6 million from its carrying value of $7.0 million as of December 31, 2011 and by $51.5 million from its initial value of $54.9 million. We expect the continued reduction of discount accretion recorded as interest income in future quarters. Our decisions regarding the fair value of assets acquired, including the FDIC loss sharing assets, could be different than initially estimated which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. We acquired significant portfolios of loans in the Mirae Bank acquisition. Although these loans were marked down to their estimated fair value, the acquired loans may suffer further deterioration in value resulting in additional charge-offs. The fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential, commercial real estate and construction markets, may increase the level of charge-offs in the loan portfolio that we acquired from Mirae Bank and correspondingly 34 Table of Contents reduce our net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition, even if other favorable events occur. Although we have entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC which provide that a significant portion of losses related to the assets acquired from Mirae Bank will be borne by the FDIC, we are not protected for all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to those assets. Additionally, the loss sharing agreements have limited terms. Therefore, any charge-off of related losses that we experience after the term of the loss sharing agreements will not be reimbursed by the FDIC and will negatively impact our net income. If actual and expected cash flows from the loans acquired from Mirae Bank continues to improve, we may take further impairments to the FDIC loss-share indemnification asset booked in connection with such acquisition. In connection with our acquisition of the covered loans from the FDIC, as receiver for Mirae Bank, and the indemnification agreement we entered into with the FDIC as part of such acquisition, we recorded an FDIC indemnification asset in accordance with ASC 805 (Business Combinations). In 2012, the Company recorded $7.9 million in total impairment charges to the FDIC indemnification asset as a result of overall improved credit quality in the covered loan portfolio. If actual and expected cash flows from the covered loan portfolio continues to improve over the foreseeable future, we may be required to take further impairments to the FDIC loss-share indemnification asset. Our use of appraisals in deciding whether to make a loan on or secured by real property does not ensure the value of the real property collateral. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we generally require an appraisal of the property. However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made, and an error in fact or judgment could adversely affect the reliability of an appraisal. In addition, events occurring after the initial appraisal may cause the value of the real estate to decrease. As a result of any of these factors, the value of collateral backing a loan may be less than supposed, and if a default occurs, we may not recover the outstanding balance of the loan. We are subject to environmental risks associated with owning real estate or collateral. The cost of cleaning up or paying damages and penalties associated with environmental problems could increase our operating expenses. When a borrower defaults on a loan secured by real property, the Bank may purchase the property in foreclosure or accept a deed to the property surrendered by the borrower. We may also take over the management of commercial properties whose owners have defaulted on loans. We may also own and lease premises where branches and other facilities are located. While we will have lending, foreclosure and facilities guidelines intended to exclude properties with an unreasonable risk of contamination, hazardous substances could exist on some of the properties that the Bank may own, manage or occupy. We face the risk that environmental laws could force us to clean up the properties at the Company's expense. It may cost much more to clean a property than the property is worth. We could also be liable for pollution generated by a borrower's operations if the Bank takes a role in managing those operations after a default. The Bank may also find it difficult or impossible to sell contaminated properties. 35 Table of Contents Our ability to obtain reimbursement under the loss sharing agreement on covered assets depends on our compliance with the terms of the loss sharing agreement. The Company must certify to the FDIC on a quarterly basis our compliance with the terms of the FDIC loss sharing agreement as a prerequisite to obtaining reimbursement from the FDIC for realized losses on covered assets. The required terms of the agreement are extensive and failure to comply with any of the guidelines could result in a specific asset or group of assets permanently losing their loss sharing coverage. As of June 30, 2009, $235.6 million, or 6.86%, of the Company's assets were covered by the FDIC loss sharing agreement compared to $113.0 million or 4.11% as of December 31, 2012. We may not be able to manage the covered assets in such a way as to always maintain loss share coverage on all such assets, which may have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Adverse changes in domestic or global economic conditions, especially in California, could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, and profitability. If economic conditions worsen in the domestic or global economy, especially in California, our business, growth and profitability are likely to be materially adversely affected. A substantial number of our clients are geographically concentrated in California, and adverse economic conditions in California, particularly in the Los Angeles area, could harm the businesses of a disproportionate number of our clients. To the extent that our clients' underlying businesses are harmed, they are more likely to default on their loans. The conditions in the California economy and in the economies of other areas where we operate may deteriorate further in the future and such deterioration may adversely affect us. Continuing negative developments in the financial industry and U.S. and global credit markets may affect our operations and results. Negative developments in the U.S. financial market, its real estate section, and the securitization markets for the mortgage loans have resulted in uncertainty in the overall economy both domestically and globally. Commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to further decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices generally have been negatively affected as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. 2009 was a record year for bankruptcies and bank failures. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could negatively affect our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely affect our financial performance. The effect of the U.S. Government's response to the financial crisis remains uncertain. In response to the turmoil in the financial services sector and the severe recession in the broader economy, the U.S. Government has taken legislative and other action intended to restore financial stability and economic growth. On October 3, 2008, then President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the "EESA"). Among other things, the EESA established the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. Under TARP, the United States Treasury Department (the "Treasury Department") was given the authority, among other things, to purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions and others for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the Treasury Department announced a program under EESA pursuant to which it would make senior 36 Table of Contents preferred stock investments in qualifying financial institutions (the "TARP Capital Purchase Program"). On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the "ARRA"). The ARRA contained, among other things, a further package of economic stimulus measures and amendments to EESA's restrictions on compensation of executives of financial institutions and others participating in the TARP. In addition to legislation, the Federal Reserve Board eased short-term interest rates and implemented a series of emergency programs to furnish liquidity to the financial markets and credit to various participants in those markets. The FDIC created a program to guarantee, on specified conditions, certain indebtedness and noninterest-bearing transaction accounts of participating insured depository institutions for limited periods. After permitting some of its emergency programs to lapse during the first half of the year, in November, 2010, the Federal Reserve Board implemented a further program of quantitative easing involving the purchase of an additional $600 billion of longer-term Treasury securities by the end of the second quarter of 2011. In addition, on December 17, 2010, President Obama signed the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 (the "2010 Tax Relief Act") which was intended to stimulate the economy. Among other things, the 2010 Tax Relief Act contained two-year extensions of the Bush era tax cuts and of Alternative Minimum Tax relief, a two-percentage point reduction in employee-paid payroll taxes and self-employment tax for 2011, new incentives for investment in machinery and equipment, estate tax relief, and a significant number of tax breaks for individuals and businesses. In addition, on July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act, the most comprehensive reform of the regulation of the financial services industry since the Great Depression of the 1930's. Among many other things, the Dodd-Frank Act provides for increased supervision of financial institutions by regulatory agencies, more stringent capital requirements for financial institutions, major changes to deposit insurance assessments by the FDIC, heightened regulation of hedging and derivatives activities, a greater focus on consumer protection issues, in part through the formation of a new Consumer Finance Protection Bureau having powers formerly split among different regulatory agencies, extensive changes to the regulation of mortgage lending, imposition of limits on interchange transaction and network fees for electronic debit transactions, repeal of the existing prohibition on payment of interest on demand deposits, the effective winding up of additional expenditures of funds under the TARP, and the imposition of a "sunset date" of December 31, 2012 on expenditures under the ARRA. Many of the Dodd-Frank Act provisions have delayed effective dates that have not yet occurred, while others require implementing regulations of Federal agencies that have not yet been adopted. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact of the EESA, the ARRA, the 2010 Tax Relief Act, the Dodd-Frank Act and their respective implementing regulations, the programs of the government agencies, or any further legislation or regulations, on the financial markets or the broader economy. A failure to stabilize the financial markets, and a continuation or worsening of the current financial market conditions, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The new CFPB may reshape the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of unfair, deceptive or abusive practices, which may directly impact the business operations of depository institutions offering consumer financial products or services including the Bank. The CFPB has broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the purposes and objectives of the "Federal consumer financial laws, and to prevent evasions thereof," with respect to all financial institutions that offer financial products and services to consumers. The CFPB is also authorized to prescribe rules applicable to any covered person or service provider identifying and prohibiting acts or practices that are "unfair, deceptive, or abusive" in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service ("UDAP authority"). The potential reach of the CFPB's broad new rulemaking powers and UDAP authority on the operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services including the Bank is currently unknown. 37 Table of Contents The Bank is subject to federal and state and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties. Federal and state fair lending laws and regulations, such as the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act, impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice, CFPB and other federal and state agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. A successful challenge to the Bank's performance under the fair lending laws and regulations could adversely impact the Bank's rating under the Community Reinvestment Act and result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on merger and acquisition activity and restrictions on expansion activity, which could negatively impact the Bank's reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available or may not be on terms acceptable to us when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. While we believe our existing capital resources at the Bank are sufficient to satisfy the Bank's capital requirements for the foreseeable future and will be sufficient to offset any problem assets. However, should our asset quality erode and require significant additional provision, resulting in consistent net operating losses at the Bank, our capital levels will decline and we will need to raise capital to support the Bank. In addition, we are subject to separate capital requirements and needs at the holding company. While we are in compliance with capital requirements at the holding company, there may be reasons in the future why we would determine to increase our capital levels at the holding company. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be certain of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to operate in substantially the same manner as we have before, including the payment of dividends at the bank and holding company level, could be materially impaired. Maintaining or increasing our market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer demand. There is increasing pressure on financial services companies to provide products and services at lower prices. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet-based services, could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products or services. A failure to achieve market acceptance of any new products we introduce, or a failure to introduce products that the market may demand, could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability, or growth prospects. Significant reliance on loans secured by real estate may increase our vulnerability to downturns in the California real estate market and other variables impacting the value of real estate. At December 31, 2012, approximately 85.3% of our loans were secured by real estate, a substantial portion of which consist of loans secured by real estate in California. Conditions in the California real estate market historically have influenced the level of our non-performing assets. A real estate recession in Southern California could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, California has experienced, on occasion, significant natural disasters, including earthquakes, brush fires and flooding attributed to the weather phenomenon known as "El Nino." In addition to these catastrophes, California has experienced a moderate decline in housing prices beginning in late 2006. The decline in housing prices subsequently developed into the current financial crisis, characterized by the further decline in the real 38 Table of Contents estate market in many parts of the country, including California, starting in the second half of 2007, and the failures of many financial institutions between 2008 and 2011. The availability of insurance to compensate for losses resulting from such crises is limited. The occurrence of one or more of such crises could impair the value of the collateral for our real estate secured loans and adversely affect us. If we fail to retain our key employees, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Our future success depends in large part upon the continuing contributions of our key management personnel. If we lose the services of one or more key employees within a short period of time, we could be adversely affected. Our future success is also dependent upon our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for such employees among financial institutions in California is intense. Our inability to attract and retain additional key personnel could adversely affect us. We could be liable for breaches of security in our online banking services. Fear of security breaches could limit the growth of our online services. We offer various internet-based services to our clients, including online banking services. The secure transmission of confidential information over the internet is essential to maintain our clients' confidence in our online services. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect client transaction data. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to prevent security breaches and periodically test our security, failure to mitigate breaches of security could adversely affect our ability to offer and grow our online services and could harm our business. People generally are concerned with security and privacy on the internet and any publicized security problems could inhibit the growth of the internet as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Our ability to provide financial services over the internet would be severely impeded if clients became unwilling to transmit confidential information online. As a result, our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The market for our common stock is limited, and potentially subject to volatile changes in price. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuation in response to numerous factors, including variations in our annual or quarterly financial results or those of our competitors, changes by financial research analysts in their evaluation of our financial results or those of our competitors, or our failure or that of our competitors to meet such estimates, conditions in the economy in general or the banking industry in particular, or unfavorable publicity affecting us or the banking industry. In addition, the equity markets have, on occasion, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies' securities and have been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. In addition, the sale by any of our large shareholders of a significant portion of that shareholder's holdings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Further, the issuance or registration by us of any significant amount of additional shares of our common stock will have the effect of increasing the number of outstanding shares or, in the case of registrations, the number of shares of our common stock that are freely tradable; any such increase may cause the market price of our common stock to decline or fluctuate significantly. Any such fluctuations may adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock. We may experience impairment of goodwill. The Company recognized goodwill in connection with the acquisition of Liberty Bank of New York. Goodwill is presumed to have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment, rather than amortized, at least annually. In addition, the Company tests on an interim basis for triggering events that would indicate impairment. The goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step test. However, under ASU 2011-08, a 39 Table of Contents company can first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. Therefore it would not be required to calculate the fair value unless we determined, based on a qualitative assessment, that it was more likely than not that its fair value was less than its carrying amount. If management's assumptions used to evaluate goodwill are inaccurate, the fair value determined could be inaccurate and impairment may not be recognized in a timely manner. Goodwill may be written down in future periods. We face substantial competition in our primary market area. We conduct our banking operations primarily in Southern California. Increased competition in our market may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the same banking services that we offer in our service area. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including without limitation, savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. We also face competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened low-end production offices or that solicit deposits in our market areas. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to continue our loan growth and level of deposits and our results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be adversely affected. Anti-takeover provisions of our charter documents may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management. Certain provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could discourage unsolicited takeover proposals not approved by the Board of Directors in which shareholders could receive a premium for their shares, thereby potentially limiting the opportunity for our shareholders to dispose of their shares at the higher price generally available in takeover attempts or that may be available under a merger proposal or may have the effect of permitting our current management, including the current Board of Directors, to retain its position, and place it in a better position to resist changes that shareholders may wish to make if they are dissatisfied with the conduct of our business. The anti-takeover measures included in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, include, without limitation, the following: •the elimination of cumulative voting, •the adoption of a classified Board of Directors, •super-majority shareholder voting requirements to modify certain provisions of the Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, and •restrictions on certain "business combinations" with third parties who may acquire our securities outside of an action taken by us. 40 Table of Contents We are subject to significant government regulation and legislation that increases the cost of doing business and inhibits our ability to compete. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation, all of which is subject to material change from time to time. These laws and regulations increase the cost of doing business and have an adverse impact on our ability to compete efficiently with other financial service providers that are not similarly regulated. Changes in regulatory policies or procedures could result in management's determining that a higher provision for loan losses would be necessary and could cause higher loan charge-offs, thus adversely affecting our net earnings. Future regulation or legislation may impose additional requirements and restrictions on us in a manner that could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and prospects. We could be negatively impacted by downturns in the South Korean economy. Many of our customers are locally based Korean-Americans who also conduct business in South Korea. Although we conduct most of our business with locally-based customers and rely on domestically located assets to collateralize our loans and credit arrangements, we have historically had some exposure to the economy of South Korea in connection with certain portions of our loans and credit transactions with Korean banks. Such exposure has consisted of: •discounts of acceptances created by banks in South Korea, •advances made against clean documents presented under sight letters of credit issued by banks in South Korea, •advances made against clean documents held for later presentation under letters of credit issued by banks in South Korea, and •extensions of credit to borrowers in the U.S. secured by letters of credit issued by banks in South Korea. We generally enter into any such loan or credit arrangements, in excess of $200,000 and of longer than 120 days, only with the largest of the Korean banks and spread other lesser or shorter term loan or credit arrangements among a variety of medium-sized Korean banks. Management closely monitors our exposure to the South Korean economy and the activities of Korean banks with which we conduct business. To date, we have not experienced any significant loss attributable to our exposure to South Korea. Nevertheless, our efforts to minimize exposure to downturns in the South Korean economy may not be successful in the future, and another significant downturn in the South Korean economy could possibly result in significant credit losses for us. In addition, due to our customer base being largely made up of Korean-Americans, our deposit base could significantly decrease as a result of deterioration in the Korean economy. For example, some of our customers' businesses may rely on funds from South Korea. Further, our customers may temporarily withdraw deposits in order to transfer funds and benefit from gains on foreign exchange and interest rates, and/or to support their relatives in South Korea during downturns in the Korean economy. A significant decrease in our deposits could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additional shares of our common stock issued in the future could have a dilutive effect. Shares of our common stock eligible for future issuance and sale could have a dilutive effect on the market for our stock. Our Articles of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of 200,000,000 shares of common stock. As of February 28, 2013, there were approximately 71,295,706 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding, 1,499,486 shares of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock have been granted and are reserved for issuance under the Wilshire Bancorp, Inc. 2008 Stock Option Plan, or the 41 Table of Contents "2008 Stock Option Plan," plus an additional 38,550 shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance to the holders of stock options previously granted and still outstanding under the Wilshire State Bank 1997 Stock Option Plan, or the "1997 Stock Option Plan." Thus, approximately 127,039,833 shares of our common stock remain authorized, not reserved for stock options, and available for future issuance and sale at the discretion of our Board of Directors. We may be obligated to repay the Small Business Administration portions of losses collected from the FDIC from losses on loans acquired through the Mirae acquisition. Recently financial institutions that have previously acquired failed banks through FDIC assisted loss-shares transactions have been receiving communications from the Small Business Administration stating that they are entitled to proportionate shares of loss-share reimbursements pay by the FDIC on acquired SBA loan losses. According to the SBA, any loss-share reimbursement on acquired SBA loans must be divided with the SBA. Although the Company has not received any such communication from the SBA as of this report date, we may be contacted by the SBA in the future and may be required to share a portion of the FDIC reimbursement on acquired SBA loan losses. Changes in accounting standards may affect how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes and their impacts on us can be hard to predict and may result in unexpected and materially adverse impacts on our reported financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to operational risks relating to our technology and information systems. The continued efficacy of our technology and information systems, related operational infrastructure and relationships with third party vendors in our ongoing operations is integral to our performance. Failure of any of these resources, including but not limited to operational or systems failures, interruptions of client service operations and ineffectiveness of or interruption in third party data processing or other vendor support, may cause material disruptions in our business, impairment of customer relations and exposure to liability for our customers, as well as action by bank regulatory authorities. Our business reputation is important and any damage to it may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our reputation is very important for our business, as we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, and in the communities we serve. Any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with SEC and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, our conduct of our business or otherwise may have a material adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 42 Table of Contents 