ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks described below, as well as other risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. You should carefully consider these risks before making an investment decision. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing the risks described below, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Product Candidates, Programs and Operations Our success may largely depend on the success of our co-lead PharmacoSurgery™ product candidates, OMS302 and OMS103HP, and we cannot be certain that either of them will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. If we are unable to commercialize OMS302 or OMS103HP, or experience significant delays in doing so, our business may be materially harmed. We are a biopharmaceutical company with no products approved for commercial sale and we have not generated any revenue from product sales. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs relating to the development and commercialization of our co-lead product candidates – OMS302 for use during ILR procedures and OMS103HP for use during arthroscopic partial meniscectomy surgery. We have not yet obtained regulatory approval to market either of these product candidates for any indication in any jurisdiction and we may never be able to obtain approval or, if approvals are obtained, to commercialize either of these product candidates successfully. We are conducting a Phase 3 clinical program that is evaluating OMS302 in patients undergoing ILR procedures. This clinical program is planned to consist of two trials that will enroll both cataract surgery and refractive lens exchange patients. In the first Phase 3 clinical trial, OMS302 achieved the primary endpoint of maintenance of intraoperative mydriasis. We expect data from the second Phase 3 clinical trial during the second half of 2012. We can provide no assurance that the data from the second clinical trial will demonstrate a drug effect or that the trial will meet its co-primary endpoints – maintenance of intraoperative mydriasis and reduction of ocular pain in the early postoperative period or that additional trials will not be required by regulatory authorities. If the data from the second Phase 3 trial do not demonstrate a drug effect or if the trial fails to meet both of its co-primary endpoints, our stock price may decline significantly and we may terminate any further development activities in the OMS302 program. Further, if the second clinical trial of OMS302 is delayed, we may be significantly delayed in seeking, or be unable to seek, marketing approval of the product candidate. In addition, we are conducting a Phase 3 clinical program evaluating OMS103HP in patients undergoing partial meniscectomy surgery. This clinical program is planned to consist of two trials conducted in North America and Europe. We expect data from the North American trial in the second half of 2012. We are in discussions with European regulatory authorities regarding the second Phase 3 clinical trial and, assuming sufficient resources, plan to begin that trial following completion of those discussions. OMS103HP demonstrated a drug effect in an earlier Phase 2 clinical trial in patients undergoing partial meniscectomy; however, we can provide no assurance that data from the ongoing Phase 3 meniscectomy program will demonstrate a drug effect or that the trials will meet their pre-specified efficacy endpoints. Also, we can provide no assurances that we will have sufficient resources to conduct the second clinical trial on schedule or at all. If we are delayed or unable to commence and complete the second clinical trial, we may be significantly delayed in seeking, or be unable to seek, marketing approval of OMS103HP. In the first quarter of 2011, we announced that OMS103HP failed to meet pre-specified efficacy endpoints in a Phase 3 clinical program in patients undergoing arthroscopic ACL reconstruction surgery. Although we believe that data from a prior Phase 1/Phase 2 clinical trial of OMS103HP in ACL reconstruction show a drug effect in that indication, due to confounding factors in the Phase 3 clinical program, we are unable to draw any conclusions about its effect in the Phase 3 program and we have no plans to conduct additional ACL reconstruction trials at this time. 23 Table of Contents We expect to incur significant clinical development and commercialization costs related to OMS302 and OMS103HP, and if the resulting data for one or both of these product candidates are not positive or if we are delayed or are unable to begin or complete the clinical trials, our business and prospects could be harmed materially and the trading price of our stock could decline significantly. Even if the data are positive for either of our lead product candidates, the FDA and other regulatory authorities may decide that our clinical trials or data are insufficient for approval of the product candidate and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. If these product candidates do not subsequently receive regulatory approval or if approval is delayed beyond our expectations, or if we are unable to commercialize either product successfully, we may not be able to generate revenue, become profitable, fund the development of our other product candidates or preclinical development programs or continue our operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation, including the requirement of approval before our products may be marketed. Both before and after approval of our product candidates, we, our product candidates, and our suppliers and contract manufacturers are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries, covering, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, and import and export. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in, among other things, one or more of the following actions: warning letters; fines and other monetary penalties; unanticipated expenditures; delays in approval or refusal to approve a product candidate; product recall or seizure; interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials; operating restrictions; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. We or the FDA or an IRB may suspend or terminate human clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Our product candidates cannot be marketed in the United States without FDA approval, and can only be marketed for the indications, if any, for which they may be approved. The FDA has not approved any of our product candidates for sale in the United States. All of our product candidates are in development, and will have to be approved by the FDA before they can be marketed in the United States. Obtaining FDA approval requires substantial time, effort, and financial resources, and may be subject to both expected and unforeseen delays, and there can be no assurance that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. The FDA may decide that our data are insufficient for approval of our product candidates and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. As we develop our product candidates, we periodically discuss with the FDA clinical, regulatory and manufacturing matters, and our views may, at times, differ from those of the FDA. For example, the FDA regulates those of our product candidates consisting of two or more active ingredients as combination drugs under its Combination Drug Policy. The Combination Drug Policy requires that we demonstrate that each active ingredient in a drug product contributes to the product’s effectiveness. The FDA has questioned the means by which we intend to demonstrate such contribution and whether available data and information demonstrate contribution for each active ingredient in OMS103HP. If we are unable to resolve these questions, we may be required to provide additional information, which may include the results of additional preclinical studies or clinical trials. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond those that we currently contemplate for regulatory approval, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing, or if the results of these and other trials or tests fail to demonstrate efficacy or raise safety concerns, we may be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates, or may never be able to obtain marketing approval. Even if regulatory approval of a product candidate is obtained, such approval may be subject to significant limitations on the indicated uses for which that product may be marketed, conditions of use, and/or significant post approval obligations, including additional clinical trials. These regulatory requirements may, among other 24 Table of Contents things, limit the size of the market for the product. Even after approval, discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer, or facility, such as previously undiscovered side effects, may result in restrictions on any product, manufacturer, or facility, including, among other things, a possible withdrawal of approval of the product. We have not yet conducted a clinical trial designed to demonstrate the efficacy of OMS201 and, if we elect to conduct additional clinical trials evaluating the product candidate, can provide no assurances that it will demonstrate efficacy. Our success could also depend on the successful commercialization of our third PharmacoSurgery product candidate, OMS201 for use during urological procedures. We have not obtained regulatory approval to market OMS201 for any indication in any jurisdiction and we may never be able to obtain approval or, if approvals are obtained, to commercialize OMS201 successfully. In the fourth quarter of 2010 we completed a successful Phase 1/Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating OMS201 in patients undergoing ureteroscopy for removal of ureteral or renal stones. This trial was designed to evaluate the safety and systemic absorption of two sequentially higher doses of OMS201 but the trial was not powered to assess efficacy. We have not yet conducted a clinical trial designed to demonstrate the efficacy of OMS201 and can provide no assurances that OMS201 will demonstrate efficacy. If we elect to conduct one or more additional clinical trials of OMS201, we will incur significant development costs and there can be no assurance that data from any subsequent clinical trials will be positive and, even if the data are positive, the FDA may decide that our clinical trials or data are insufficient for marketing approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. If OMS201 does not receive regulatory approval, or if it is not successfully commercialized, we may not be able to generate revenue, become profitable, fund the development of our other product candidates or our preclinical programs or continue our operations. If our clinical trials are delayed, we may be unable to develop our product candidates on a timely basis, which will increase our development costs and delay the potential commercialization of our products and the subsequent receipt of revenue from sales, if any. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause regulatory agencies, IRBs or us to delay our clinical trials or suspend or delay the analysis of the data from those trials. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: • discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • delays or the inability to obtain required approvals from IRBs or other governing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • delays in enrolling patients into clinical trials; • lower than anticipated retention rates of patients in clinical trials; • the need to repeat or conduct additional clinical trials as a result of problems such as inconclusive or negative results, poorly executed testing, a failure of a clinical site to adhere to the clinical protocol or unacceptable design; • an insufficient supply of product candidate materials or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • the need to qualify new suppliers of product candidate materials for FDA and foreign regulatory approval; • an unfavorable FDA inspection or review of a clinical trial site or records of any clinical investigation; 25 Table of Contents • the occurrence of drug-related side effects or adverse events experienced by participants in our clinical trials; or • the placement of a clinical hold on a trial. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • unforeseen safety issues or any determination that a trial presents unacceptable health risks; or • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial, including the incurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional trials and studies and increased expenses associated with the services of our contract research organizations, or CROs, and other third parties. Changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for re-examination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. If the results of our clinical trials are not available when we expect or if we encounter any delay in the analysis of data from our clinical trials, we may be unable to file for regulatory approval or conduct additional clinical trials on the schedule we currently anticipate. Any delays in completing our clinical trials may increase our development costs, would slow down our product development and approval process, would delay our receipt of product revenue and could make it difficult to raise additional capital. Many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. In addition, significant clinical trial delays also could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our future products and may harm our business. Our existing and future product candidates, including our co-lead product candidates OMS302 and OMS103HP, may never achieve market acceptance even if we obtain regulatory approvals. Even if we receive regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of one or more of our existing or future product candidates, including OMS302 and OMS103HP, the commercial success of these product candidates will depend on, among other things, their acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and other members of the medical community. If our product candidates fail to gain market acceptance, we may be unable to earn sufficient revenue to continue our business. Market acceptance of, and demand for, any product candidate that we may develop and commercialize will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • availability, relative cost and relative efficacy of alternative and competing treatments; • the effectiveness of our marketing and distribution strategy to, among others, hospitals, surgery centers, physicians and/or pharmacists; • prevalence of the surgical procedure or condition for which the product is approved; • acceptance by physicians of each product as a safe and effective treatment; • perceived advantages over alternative treatments; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the availability of adequate reimbursement by third parties; 26 Table of Contents • the prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; • publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments; and • our ability to obtain sufficient third-party reimbursement for our products. Further, the number of operations in which our PharmacoSurgery products, if approved, would be used may be significantly less than the total number of operations performed according to the market data obtained from industry sources. If our product candidates do not become widely accepted by physicians, patients, third-party payors and other members of the medical community, it is unlikely that we will ever become profitable, and if we are unable to increase market penetration of our product candidates, our growth will be significantly harmed. We have a history of operating losses and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have not been profitable and have generated substantial operating losses since we were incorporated in June 1994. We had net losses of approximately $28.5 million, $29.3 million and $21.1 million for the 12 months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $176.1 million. We expect to incur additional losses for at least the next several years and cannot be certain that we will ever achieve profitability, and we do not anticipate generating revenue from the sale of our product candidates until 2014 at the earliest. As a result, our business is subject to all of the risks inherent in the development of a new business enterprise, such as the risks that we may be unable to obtain additional capital needed to support the preclinical and clinical expenses of development and commercialization of our product candidates, to develop a market for our potential products, to successfully transition from a company with a research and development focus to a company capable of commercializing our product candidates and to attract and retain qualified management as well as technical and scientific staff. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed or on acceptable terms, we may be unable to complete the development and commercialization of OMS302, OMS103HP or our other product candidates, or continue our other preclinical development programs. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to: • complete the Phase 3 clinical program of OMS302 for use in ILR procedures; • complete the Phase 3 clinical program of OMS103HP for use in arthroscopic partial meniscectomy surgery; • purchase the equipment and research tools and pay all of the related research and development costs necessary to screen orphan GPCRs and commence related medicinal chemistry efforts as required pursuant to our GPCR program funding agreements with Vulcan and LSDF; • scale-up and produce clinical supplies of product candidates, including for our PDE10, PDE7, MASP2 and Plasmin programs; • initiate, conduct and complete the next clinical trials of OMS201 for use in urological procedures; • continue research and development in all of our programs; • make milestone payments to our collaborators; • make principal and interest payments when due under our debt facility with Oxford; • initiate and conduct clinical trials for other product candidates; and • launch and commercialize any product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval. If we do not raise additional capital, we may be unable to complete all of the clinical trials in our Phase 3 clinical programs for OMS302 and OMS103HP, which would prevent us from seeking marketing approval and 27 Table of Contents generating sales revenue for one or both of those product candidates. Also, our clinical trials may be delayed or we may need to conduct additional trials for many of the reasons discussed in these “Risk Factors,” which would increase our development expenses and may require us to raise additional capital to complete their clinical development and commercialization and to decrease spending on our other development programs. Furthermore, we may need to raise additional capital to advance one or more of our preclinical programs into clinical development. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital to complete the clinical development of OMS302 or OMS103HP or advance one or more of our preclinical development programs into the clinic, our business and prospects could be harmed and our stock price could decline significantly. The terms of our debt facility place restrictions on our operating and financial flexibility and, if we raise additional capital through debt financing, the terms of any new debt could further restrict our ability to operate our business. We borrowed $20.0 million pursuant to the terms of a loan and security agreement with Oxford. As collateral for this loan, we pledged substantially all of our assets other than intellectual property. Our agreement with Oxford restricts our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends and engage in significant business transactions such as a change of control of Omeros, so long as we owe any amounts to Oxford under the agreement. Any of these restrictions could significantly limit our operating and financial flexibility and ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive activities. In addition, if we default under our agreement, Oxford may have the right to accelerate all of our repayment obligations under the agreement and to take control of our pledged assets, which include our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, potentially requiring us to renegotiate our agreement on terms less favorable to us. Further, if we are liquidated, Oxford’s right to repayment would be senior to the rights of the holders of our common stock to receive any proceeds from the liquidation. An event of default under the loan and security agreement includes the occurrence of any material adverse effect upon our business operations, properties, assets, results of operations or financial condition, taken as whole with respect to our viability, that would reasonably be expected to result in our inability to repay the loan. If Oxford declares a default upon the occurrence of any event that it interprets as having a material adverse effect upon us as defined under our agreement, we will be required to repay the loan immediately or to attempt to reverse Oxford’s declaration through negotiation or litigation. Any declaration by Oxford of an event of default could significantly harm our business and prospects and could cause our stock price to decline. If we raise any additional debt financing, the terms of such debt could further restrict our operating and financial flexibility. Our agreements with Vulcan and LSDF contain covenants that may limit our ability to redirect research and development efforts away from our GPCR program to other programs that may be more profitable or for which there is a greater likelihood of success. In October 2010, we received $20.0 million from Vulcan for our GPCR program, as well as an additional $5.0 million grant award from LSDF that will be paid against expenses that we incur for our GPCR program. In exchange for these payments, we agreed to pay Vulcan and LSDF a portion of net proceeds that we receive from the GPCR program. Pursuant to our agreements with Vulcan and the LSDF, we are required to comply with certain covenants, including ones that require us (1) to use commercially reasonable efforts to screen at least 75% of the currently known human Class A orphan GPCRs within 19 months from the date of the agreements, subject to possible extensions, and (2) to commence a medicinal chemistry effort focused on developing a product candidate with respect to one orphan GPCRs and cause at least six employees and consultants to dedicate a substantial portion of their time to such activities. These covenants require us to commit substantial resources to activities that we may, absent such covenants, otherwise elect to abandon or delay in favor of other opportunities or to preserve our cash. Further, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to comply with these covenants and, if we do not, Vulcan or LSDF could declare that we are in default, which could significantly harm our business and prospects and could cause our stock price to decline. 28 Table of Contents Our agreements with Vulcan and LSDF include terms that may reduce the purchase price that a third party would be willing to pay for the GPCR program or for us in a change of control, should we elect to proceed with either of such transactions. Under our agreement with Vulcan, if we decide to sell or assign all or substantially all of the assets in our GPCR program prior to the time that Vulcan has received $60.0 million from our agreement, Vulcan may require that the purchaser assume all of our rights and obligations pursuant to the agreement, including our obligation to pay tiered percentages of net proceeds that we receive from the GPCR program. The term of the Vulcan agreement is at least 35 years. If, at our option, we elect to assign the LSDF agreement in connection with the sale of the GPCR program, a potential purchaser would also have to assume similar payment obligations to LSDF. Potential purchasers of our GPCR program may be less inclined to purchase the program because of these obligations. Further, even if they are willing to assume our rights and obligations, they may be unwilling to pay as much for our GPCR program as they would be without such requirement. In addition, if we are acquired in a change of control, the acquiring party will be required to assume our rights and obligations under the Vulcan and LSDF agreements. A party that wants to acquire us through a change of control may also be less inclined to do so or not be willing to pay as much to acquire us because of the Vulcan and LSDF agreements. We have granted Vulcan a lien on all of our GPCR assets, excluding intellectual property, that provides Vulcan a right, senior to our shareholders, to receive proceeds generated from a liquidation of our GPCR assets as well as potentially limiting our operating and financial flexibility. We have granted Vulcan a lien on all of our GPCR assets, excluding intellectual property, to secure our obligations under our agreement with Vulcan. This lien is, and will be, junior to security interests we grant to third parties, such as Oxford, in connection with indebtedness for borrowed money. The lien will automatically be released once we have paid Vulcan or its affiliate $25.0 million out of net proceeds received from the GPCR program. If we default under our agreement with Vulcan, in certain circumstances Vulcan may, subject to the rights of any holders of senior security interests, take control of such pledged assets. We have also agreed with Vulcan not to grant any liens on our GPCR-related intellectual property related to our cellular redistribution assay, subject to specified exceptions. If we are liquidated, Vulcan’s right to receive any payments then due under our agreement would be senior to the rights of the holders of our common stock to receive any proceeds from the liquidation of our GPCR program assets. Further, the junior lien and negative pledge on our intellectual property restricts our operating and financial flexibility, potentially limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities and making it more difficult for us to respond to changes in our business. LSDF may not fund the entire $5.0 million grant award. LSDF’s $5.0 million grant award is only paid against certain costs we incur in the GPCR program. As of December 31, 2011, we had received $3.8 million of funding against reimbursable expenses pursuant to the grant award. If LSDF believes that we have breached our agreement before we have received the entire $5.0 million available under the grant award, LSDF may refuse to provide us any further funding, in which case we will have fewer resources to advance our GPCR program and to meet the covenants related to our GPCR program set forth in our agreements with Vulcan and LSDF. We rely on third parties to conduct portions of our preclinical research and clinical trials. If these third parties do not perform as contractually required or otherwise expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We rely on third parties, such as CROs and research institutions, to conduct a portion of our preclinical research. We also rely on third parties, such as medical institutions, clinical investigators and CROs, to assist us in conducting our clinical trials. Nonetheless, we are responsible for confirming that our preclinical research is conducted in accordance with applicable regulations, and that our clinical trials are conducted in accordance with applicable regulations, the relevant protocol and within the context of approvals by an IRB. Our reliance on these 29 Table of Contents third parties does not relieve us of responsibility for ensuring compliance with FDA regulations and standards for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of preclinical research and clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our preclinical and clinical development processes may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates, we may be unable to generate product revenue. We do not have a sales and marketing organization and Omeros has never sold, marketed or distributed any biopharmaceutical product. Developing an internal sales force is expensive and time-consuming and commonly is commenced 18 months in advance of product launch. Any delay in developing an internal sales force could impact the timing of any product launch. If we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we market and sell any approved product candidates that we develop ourselves. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our approved product candidates without collaboration partners include: • our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; • the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of hospitals, surgery centers, physicians and/or pharmacists to purchase, use or prescribe our approved product candidates; • the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and • unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization. If we are unsuccessful in building a sales and marketing infrastructure or unable to partner with one or more third parties to perform sales and marketing services for our product candidates, we will have difficulty commercializing our product candidates, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. We have no capacity to manufacture clinical or commercial supplies of our product candidates and intend to rely solely on third parties to manufacture clinical and commercial supplies of all of our product candidates. We do not intend to manufacture our product candidates for our clinical trials or on a commercial scale and intend to rely on third parties to do so. With the exception of our agreement with Hospira Worldwide, Inc. for the commercial supply of liquid OMS103HP, we have not yet entered into any agreement for the commercial supply of any of our product candidates, including OMS302, and can provide no assurance that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any significant delays in the manufacture of clinical or commercial supplies of our product candidates could materially harm our business and prospects. If the contract manufacturers that we rely on experience difficulties with manufacturing our product candidates or fail FDA inspections, our clinical trials, regulatory submissions and ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate revenue may be significantly delayed. Contract manufacturers that we select to manufacture our product candidates for clinical testing or for commercial use may encounter difficulties with the small- and large-scale formulation and manufacturing processes required for such manufacture. These difficulties could result in delays in clinical trials, regulatory submissions, or commercialization of our product candidates. Once a product candidate is approved and being 30 Table of Contents marketed, these difficulties could also result in the later recall or withdrawal of the product from the market or failure to have adequate supplies to meet market demand. Even if we are able to establish additional or replacement manufacturers, identifying these sources and entering into definitive supply agreements and obtaining regulatory approvals may require a substantial amount of time and cost and such supply arrangements may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, we and our contract manufacturers must comply with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, requirements strictly enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. We or our contract manufacturers may be unable to comply with cGMP requirements or with other FDA, state, local and foreign regulatory requirements. We have little control over our contract manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards or with their quality control and quality assurance procedures but we are responsible for their compliance. For the liquid formulation of OMS103HP and our other product candidates, large-scale manufacturing processes that have been developed will require validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. Failure to comply with these requirements by our contract manufacturers could result in the issuance of untitled letters and/or warning letters from authorities, as well as sanctions being imposed on us, including fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any product candidate supplied by contract manufacturers is compromised due to their failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize one or more of our product candidates, which would harm our business and prospects significantly. If one or more of our contract manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties or otherwise fail to comply with its contractual obligations, our ability to provide product candidates to patients in our clinical trials or on a commercial scale would be jeopardized. Any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical trial supplies could delay the completion of our clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining our clinical trial programs and, depending on the period of delay, require us to commence new trials at significant additional expense or terminate the trials completely. If we need to change to other commercial manufacturers, the FDA and comparable foreign regulators must first approve these manufacturers’ facilities and processes, which would require new testing and compliance inspections, and the new manufacturers would have to be educated in or independently develop the processes necessary for the production of our product candidates. Ingredients necessary to manufacture our PharmacoSurgery product candidates may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, which may delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We must purchase from third-party suppliers the ingredients necessary for our contract manufacturers to produce our PharmacoSurgery product candidates for our clinical trials and, if approved, for commercial distribution. Suppliers may not sell these ingredients to us at the time we need them or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Although we intend to enter into agreements with third-party suppliers that will guarantee the availability and timely delivery of ingredients for our PharmacoSurgery product candidates, we have not yet entered into and we may be unable to secure any such supply agreements or guarantees. Even if we were able to secure such agreements or guarantees, our suppliers may be unable or choose not to provide us the ingredients in a timely manner or in the minimum guaranteed quantities. If we are unable to obtain and then supply these ingredients to our contract manufacturer for our clinical trials, potential regulatory approval of our product candidates would be delayed, significantly impacting our ability to develop our product candidates, which would materially affect our ability to generate revenue from the sale of our product candidates. 31 Table of Contents We may need licenses for active ingredients from third parties so that we can develop and commercialize some products from some of our current preclinical programs, which could increase our development costs and delay our ability to commercialize products. Should we decide to use active ingredients in any of our product candidates that are proprietary to one or more third parties, we would need to obtain licenses to those active ingredients from those third parties. For example, we intend to use proprietary active ingredients that we have exclusively licensed from Daiichi Sankyo for our PDE7 program. If we are unable to access rights to these active ingredients prior to preclinical toxicology studies intended to support clinical trials, we may need to develop alternate product candidates from these programs by either accessing or developing alternate active ingredients, resulting in increased development costs and delays in commercialization of these product candidates. If we are unable to access rights to the desired active ingredients on commercially reasonable terms or develop suitable alternate active ingredients, we may not be able to commercialize product candidates from these programs. We may not be successful in partnering new drug targets made accessible by our GPCR program. To fully exploit the developments arising from our GPCR program, we intend to partner or out-license our proprietary rights associated with some of the new drug targets made accessible by our GPCR program. There can be no assurance that we will enter into any such agreements and, even if we do, that the terms of any such agreements will be favorable to us. For example, potential partners may require that we first advance the development and optimization of functionally active compounds identified from our high-throughput screening of orphan GPCRs prior to entering into a licensing or other partnering arrangement, requiring us to invest substantial resources without any certainty that we will successfully optimize one or more of the compounds or recover our investment. Potential partners may also require that we obtain the issuance of patents protecting the new drug targets and compounds that interact with those targets. We may not be successful in obtaining the issuance of such patents for the targets and compounds we intend to partner or for the targets and compounds we intend to develop ourselves and, even if we do, the breadth of our patent rights may be inadequate or may be viewed as inadequate by potential partners. Further, if we are unable to secure the issuance of patents or patents of adequate breadth, we may be unable to exclude competitors from developing and commercializing compounds that interact with GPCR targets, limiting our ability to successfully commercialize these targets either independently or with a partner. Our ability to pursue the development and commercialization of product candidates from our MASP2 program depends on the continuation of licenses from third parties. Our MASP2 program is based in part on intellectual property rights that we licensed on a worldwide exclusive basis from the University of Leicester, MRC and Helion. The continued maintenance of these agreements requires us to undertake development activities and, if regulatory approval for marketing is obtained, to pay royalties to each of these organizations upon commercialization of a MASP2 product candidate. In addition, we are obligated to pay Helion up to $6.9 million upon the achievement of certain events related to a MASP2 product candidate, such as the filing of an IND application with the FDA, initiation of clinical trials, receipt of marketing approval and reaching specified sales milestones. Our ability to continue development and commercialization of product candidates from our MASP2 program depends on our maintaining these exclusive licenses, which cannot be assured. Our ability to pursue the development and commercialization of product candidates from our MASP2 and Plasmin programs depends on third-party developers and manufacturers of biologic drug products. Any product candidate from our MASP2 or Plasmin programs would be a biologic drug product and we do not have the internal capability to sequence, hybridize or clone biologics or to produce them for use in clinical trials or on a commercial scale. We do not currently have agreements in place with manufacturers of biologics to manufacture clinical or commercial quantities of drug product for our MASP2 or Plasmin programs and cannot 32 Table of Contents be certain that such agreements could be entered into on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. There are only a limited number of manufacturers of biologic drug products. If we are unable to obtain clinical supplies of product candidates for one of these programs, clinical trials or the development of any such product candidate for that program could be substantially delayed until we can find and qualify a manufacturer, which may increase our development costs, slow down our product development and approval process, delay receipt of product revenue and make it difficult to raise additional capital. Our preclinical programs may not produce product candidates that are suitable for clinical trials or that can be successfully commercialized or generate revenue through partnerships. Any product candidates from our preclinical programs, including our PDE10, PDE7, MASP2, Plasmin and GPCR programs, must successfully complete preclinical testing, which may include demonstrating efficacy and the lack of toxicity in established animal models, before entering clinical trials. Many pharmaceutical and biological product candidates do not successfully complete preclinical testing and, even if preclinical testing is successfully completed, may fail in clinical trials. In addition, there can be no assurance that positive results from preclinical studies will be predictive of results obtained from subsequent preclinical studies or clinical trials. For example, our studies of PDE7 inhibitors in different animal models of Parkinson’s disease, which may or may not be relevant to the mechanism of action of PDE7 inhibitors in humans, have produced varying results. Further, we cannot be certain that any of our preclinical product development programs will generate product candidates that are suitable for clinical testing. For example, we have not yet generated any product candidates from our GPCR program. We may discover that there are fewer drugable targets among the orphan GPCRs than we currently estimate and that, for those orphan GPCRs for which we identify functionally active compounds that we elect to develop independently, we are unable to develop related product candidates that successfully complete preclinical or clinical testing. If we are unable to develop product candidates, potential corporate partners may be unwilling to enter into partnership agreements with us. We also cannot be certain that any product candidates that do advance into clinical trials will successfully demonstrate safety and efficacy in clinical trials. Even if we achieve positive results in early clinical trials, they may not be predictive of the results in later trials. Because we have a number of development programs and are considering a variety of product candidates, we may expend our limited resources to pursue a particular candidate or candidates and fail to capitalize on candidates or indications that may be more profitable or for which there is a greater likelihood of success. Because we have limited resources, we must focus on clinical and preclinical development programs and product candidates that we believe are the most promising. As a result, we may forego or delay pursuit of opportunities with other product candidates or other indications that later prove to have greater commercial potential and may not be able to progress development programs, including our GPCR program, as rapidly as otherwise possible. Our resource allocation decisions may cause us to fail to capitalize on viable commercial products or profitable market opportunities. Further, if we do not accurately evaluate the commercial potential or target market for a particular product candidate, we may relinquish valuable rights to that product candidate through collaboration, license or other royalty arrangements in cases in which it would have been advantageous for us to retain sole development and commercialization rights. It is difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary technologies, and we may not be able to ensure their protection. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection for the use, formulation and structure of our product candidates, the methods used to manufacture them, the related therapeutic targets and associated methods of treatment, as well as on successfully defending these patents against potential third-party challenges. Our ability to protect our product candidates from 33 Table of Contents unauthorized making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing by third parties is dependent on the extent to which we have rights under valid and enforceable patents that cover these activities. The patent positions of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the United States, and tests used for determining the patentability of patent claims in all technologies are in flux. The pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences patent situation outside the United States is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Further, the determination that a patent application or patent claim meets all of the requirements for patentability is a subjective determination based on the application of law and jurisprudence. For example, in the United States, a determination of patentability by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, or validity by a court or other trier of fact requires a determination that the claimed invention has utility and is both novel and non-obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art in view of prior known publications and public information, and that the patent specification supporting the claim adequately describes the claimed invention, discloses the best mode known to the inventors for practicing the invention, and discloses the invention in a manner that enables one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention, such as for our target-based technologies. The ultimate determination by the USPTO or by a court of other trier of fact in the United States, or corresponding foreign national patent offices or courts, on whether a claim meets all requirements of patentability cannot be assured. Although we have conducted searches for third-party publications, patents and other information that may impact the patentability of claims in our various patent applications and patents, we cannot be certain that all relevant information has been identified. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or patent applications, our licensed patents or patent applications or in third-party patents. Our issued PharmacoSurgery patents have terms that will expire as late as September 24, 2022 for OMS103HP. If our pending PharmacoSurgery applications issue as patents, the expiration dates of those patents will be August 4, 2032 for OMS103HP, July 30, 2023 for OMS302 and March 17, 2026 for OMS201, not taking into account any extensions due to potential adjustment of patent terms resulting from USPTO delays. We intend to file additional patent applications directed to OMS302 which, if issued, are expected to provide patent terms ending 2033 or later. We cannot assure you that any of these patent applications will be found to be patentable, including over our own prior art patents, or will issue as patents, nor can we make assurances as to the scope of any claims that may issue from these pending and future patent applications or to the outcome of any proceedings by any potential third parties that could challenge the patentability, validity or enforceability of our patents and patent applications in the United States or foreign jurisdictions, which could limit patent protection for our product candidates and materially harm our business. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by any of our patents, if issued, or our pending patent applications; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products or duplicate any of our technologies or products; • we may not be able to generate sufficient data to fully support patent applications that protect the entire breadth of developments expected to result from our development programs, including the GPCR program; 34 Table of Contents • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents or, if issued, that these patents will be sufficient to protect our technology or provide us with a basis for commercially viable products or provide us with any competitive advantages; • if our pending applications issue as patents, they may be challenged by third parties as not infringed, invalid or unenforceable under U.S. or foreign laws; • if issued, the patents under which we hold rights may not be valid or enforceable; or • we may develop additional proprietary technologies or products that are not patentable and which are unlikely to be adequately protected through trade secrets if, for example, a competitor were to independently develop duplicative, similar or alternative technologies or products. In addition, to the extent we are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for one of our product candidates or in the event such patent protection expires, it may no longer be cost-effective to extend our portfolio by pursuing additional development of a product candidate for follow-on indications. We also may rely on trade secrets to protect our technologies or products, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third-party entity illegally obtained and is using any of our trade secrets is expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. If we choose to go to court to stop someone else from using our inventions, that individual or company has the right to ask the court to rule that the underlying patents are invalid or should not be enforced against that third party. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources even if we were successful in stopping the infringement of these patents. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of these patents is upheld, the court will refuse to stop the other party on the ground that such other party’s activities do not infringe the patents. Further, a third party may claim that we or our contract manufacturers are using inventions covered by the third party’s patent rights and may go to court to stop us from engaging in the alleged infringing activity, including making, using or selling our product candidates. These lawsuits are costly and could affect our results of operations and divert the attention of managerial and technical personnel. There is a risk that a court would decide that we or our contract manufacturers are infringing the third party’s patents and would order us or our partners to stop the activities covered by the patents. In addition, there is a risk that a court will order us or our contract manufacturers to pay the other party’s damages for having violated the other party’s patents. We have indemnified our contract manufacturers against certain patent infringement claims and thus may be responsible for any of their costs associated with such claims and actions. The pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences industry has produced a proliferation of patents, and it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products or methods of use. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts and the interpretation is not always uniform. If we were sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products or methods of use either do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent or that the patent claims are invalid, and we may not be able to do this. Proving invalidity, in particular, is difficult since it requires clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents. Although we have conducted searches of third-party patents with respect to our programs, these searches may not have identified all relevant third-party patents. Consequently, we cannot assure you that third-party patents containing claims covering our product candidates, programs, technologies or methods do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued. 35 Table of Contents Because some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing, and because publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our patents, our licensors’ patents, our pending applications or our licensors’ pending applications, or that we or our licensors were the first to invent or the first to file patent applications for inventions embodied in our technologies. Our competitors may have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering technologies similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our or our licensors’ patent applications and could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. If our or our licensors’ pending patent applications issue as patents, we can provide you no assurances that the patents will not be challenged in post-grant review or inter-parties review proceedings. If another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in interference derivation proceeding declared by the USPTO to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position with respect to such inventions. Similar patent opposition proceedings in other countries and regions may also be costly and could result in the loss of patent rights in those countries and regions. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the capital necessary to continue our operations. We may experience disruptions to our business in connection with moving our offices and laboratory into a new facility during 2012. In late 2012, we intend to move all of operations, including our laboratory and vivarium, to a new building. Under our lease, the landlord is responsible for building a laboratory and vivarium in this new facility to our specifications. We can provide no assurances that the landlord will be able to construct a laboratory and vivarium to our specifications by the time that we are required to vacate our current laboratory and vivarium space, or at all. Further, even if the new facility meets our specifications, after moving our laboratory and vivarium into this building we may discover problems that disrupt our research efforts. Any of these problems could substantially damage, disrupt or delay our research and development efforts, require us to find a new facility for our laboratory and vivarium that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and materially harm one or more of our development programs and our business and prospects. We use hazardous materials in our business and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive. Our research operations produce hazardous waste products, which include chemicals and radioactive and biological materials. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local regulations relating to the use, handling, storage and disposal of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with applicable legal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. We generally contract with third parties for the disposal of such substances and store our low-level radioactive waste at our facilities until the materials are no longer considered radioactive. We may be required to incur further costs to comply with current or future environmental and safety regulations. In addition, although we carry insurance, in the event of accidental contamination or injury from these materials, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our insurance coverage and other resources. The loss of members of our management team could substantially disrupt our business operations. Our success depends to a significant degree on the continued individual and collective contributions of our management team. The members of our management team are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies other than on the life of Gregory Demopulos, M.D., our president, chief 36 Table of Contents executive officer and chairman of the board of directors. Losing the services of any key member of our management team, whether from death or disability, retirement, competing offers or other causes, could delay execution of our business strategy, cause us to lose a strategic partner, or otherwise materially affect our operations. We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to maintain our operations or grow effectively. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. If we are unable to hire and train a sufficient number of qualified employees for any reason, we may not be able to implement our current initiatives or grow effectively. We have in the past maintained a rigorous, highly selective and time-consuming hiring process. We believe that our approach to hiring has significantly contributed to our success to date. If we do not succeed in attracting qualified personnel and retaining and motivating existing personnel, our existing operations may suffer and we may be unable to grow effectively. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited financial resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations. Our former chief financial officer has filed a lawsuit against us and our current and former directors, the defense of which has and will continue to consume our time and resources and could harm our reputation and the reputations of our current and former directors, materially negatively affect our financial position and cause our stock price to decline. In December 2008, our former chief financial officer, Richard J. Klein, used our Whistleblower Policy procedures to report to the chairman of our audit committee that we had submitted grant reimbursement claims to the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, for work that we had not performed. In accordance with the Whistleblower Policy and its charter, our audit committee, with special outside counsel, commenced an independent investigation of our NIH grant and claims procedures. The investigation concluded that we had not submitted claims to the NIH for work we had not performed. In January 2009, we terminated Mr. Klein’s employment for reasons other than this incident. Mr. Klein alleged that he was wrongfully terminated and claimed it was retaliatory. We subsequently voluntarily reported to the NIH Mr. Klein’s whistleblower report and the audit committee findings; in June 2009 the NIH confirmed to us in writing that it was satisfied with our handling of the grant matters that were the subject of Mr. Klein’s whistleblower report. On September 21, 2009, Mr. Klein filed a lawsuit against us and some of our current and former directors in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, or WDWA, alleging, among other things, that we violated the Federal False Claims Act, wrongfully discharged his employment in violation of public policy and defamed him. Mr. Klein seeks, among other things, damages in an amount to be proven at trial, actual litigation expenses, damages for loss of future earnings and his reasonable attorneys’ fees. On January 8, 2010, the court dismissed all of our non-executive directors from the case with prejudice, and on July 27, 2010 Mr. Klein withdrew his defamation claim. On December 8, 2010, Mr. Klein was granted leave to amend his complaint to add qui tam claims asserted on behalf of the U.S. government under the Federal False Claims Act. The qui tam claims are based on the same NIH grant that was the subject of Mr. Klein’s whistleblower report and related NIH grants totaling $1.3 million. Mr. Klein seeks on behalf of the U.S. government and himself an award of civil penalties, treble damages and fees and costs. On October 17, 2011, the U.S. government filed a notice of its election to decline intervention in the qui tam claims, but this election does not prevent Mr. Klein from continuing these claims or his other claims and does not affect our claims against Mr. Klein. On March 13, 2012, the WDWA issued an order granting our motion to dismiss the majority of the qui tam claims for failing to meet 37 Table of Contents statutory requirements, leaving pending only the qui tam claims related (1) to our alleged obligations stemming from $164,000 of grant funds drawn down by nura, inc. prior to our acquisition of nura, inc. in 2006 and (2) to the timekeeping allegations that we previously reported to the NIH and for which the NIH confirmed to us in writing that it was satisfied with our handling of the matter. Although we have been advised by outside counsel that we have meritorious defenses to Mr. Klein’s allegations, and we are defending against the remaining claims vigorously, neither the outcome of the litigation nor the amount and range of potential damages or exposure associated with the litigation can be assessed with certainty. Further, defending this lawsuit has already consumed and will continue to consume our time and resources and could, depending on the outcome, harm our reputation and the reputations of our current and former directors, and materially negatively affect our financial position and cause our stock price to decline. Costs associated with defense of the lawsuit filed by Mr. Klein have to date been paid in part, subject to a reservation of rights, by Carolina Casualty Insurance Company, or CCIC, which is the carrier for our Directors, Officers and Corporate Liability Insurance Coverage, or D&O Insurance Policy, that was in place at the time Mr. Klein’s employment with Omeros was terminated. On February 21, 2012, CCIC filed a complaint for a declaratory judgment against us, our CEO and Mr. Klein in the WDWA, seeking a declaration that CCIC owes no duty to indemnify or defend us or our CEO against the allegations raised by Mr. Klein. We expect that CCIC will continue to pay defense costs related to the lawsuit while the declaratory judgment action is pending. We intend to defend vigorously the declaratory judgment action filed by CCIC, and while we can provide no assurances regarding the outcome of the litigation with CCIC, we believe CCIC is required under the D&O Insurance Policy to pay our defense costs related to the lawsuit filed by Mr. Klein. As a public company we incur increased costs and demands on management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could affect our operating results. As a public company we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act and the requirements of the related SEC rules and regulations may increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may also place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. We also expect that these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage than was previously available. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers. We are required to make an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Further, our independent registered public accounting firm has been engaged to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Section 404 requires us to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for each fiscal year. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. If we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404, management may not be able to assess whether our internal control over financial reporting is effective, which may subject us to adverse regulatory consequences and could result in a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, if we fail to maintain effective controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner or otherwise comply with the standards applicable to us as a public company. Any failure by us to provide the required financial information in a timely manner could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and the market value of our securities. 38 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Our competitors may develop products that are less expensive, safer or more effective, or which may otherwise diminish or eliminate the commercial success of any potential products that we may commercialize. If our competitors market products that are less expensive, safer or more effective than our future products developed from our product candidates, that reach the market before our product candidates, or that otherwise negatively affect the market, we may not achieve commercial success. For example, we are developing PDE10 inhibitors to identify a product candidate for use in the treatment of schizophrenia and other diseases that affect cognition. Other pharmaceutical companies, many with significantly greater resources than we have, are also developing PDE10 inhibitors for the treatment of schizophrenia and other diseases that affect cognition and these companies may be further along in development. The failure of a PDE10 inhibitor product candidate from any of our competitors to demonstrate safety or efficacy in clinical trials may negatively reflect on the ability of our PDE10 inhibitor product candidates under development to demonstrate safety and efficacy. In addition, we believe that other companies are attempting to find compounds that functionally interact with orphan GPCRs. If any of these companies are able to achieve this for a given orphan GPCR before we do, we may be unable to establish a commercially valuable intellectual property position around that orphan GPCR. Further, the failure of any future products developed from our product candidates to effectively compete with products marketed by our competitors would impair our ability to generate revenue, which would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect to compete with other biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and our competitors may: • develop and market products that are less expensive or more effective than any future products developed from our product candidates; • commercialize competing products before we can launch any products developed from our product candidates; • operate larger research and development programs, possess commercial-scale manufacturing operations or have substantially greater financial resources than we do; • initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully than we can; • have greater success in recruiting skilled technical and scientific workers from the limited pool of available talent; • more effectively negotiate third-party licenses and strategic relationships; and • take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily than we can. We expect to compete for market share against large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, new companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. In addition, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Because our research approach integrates many technologies, it may be difficult for us to remain current with rapid changes in each technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we may be unable to compete effectively. Our competitors may render our technologies obsolete by advances in existing technological approaches or the development of new or different approaches, potentially eliminating the advantages in our product discovery process that we believe we derive from our research approach and proprietary technologies and programs. In addition, physicians may continue with their respective current treatment practices, including the use of current preoperative and postoperative treatments, rather than adopt our PharmacoSurgery product candidates. 39 Table of Contents Our product candidates could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if we experience unanticipated problems with our product candidates if and when any of them are approved. Any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval, together with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, and advertising and promotional activities for such product candidate, will be subject to continued regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Even if regulatory approval of a product candidate is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product candidate may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or the approval may contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product candidate. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our product candidates or their manufacture, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in: • restrictions on such product candidates or manufacturing processes; • withdrawal of the product candidates from the market; • voluntary or mandatory recalls; • fines; • suspension of regulatory approvals; • product seizures; or • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements or policies, we may lose marketing approval for our product candidates when and if any of them are approved. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products internationally. We intend to have our product candidates marketed outside the United States. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other non-U.S. jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. We may be unable to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing and data review. The time required to obtain foreign regulatory approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval discussed in these “Risk Factors.” We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other foreign countries or by the FDA. The failure to obtain these approvals could harm our business. If we are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from governments or third-party payors for any products that we may develop or if we are unable to obtain acceptable prices for those products, they may not be purchased or used and, as a result, our revenue and prospects for profitability could suffer. Our future revenue and profit will depend heavily on the availability of adequate reimbursement for the use of our approved product candidates from governmental and other third-party payors, both in the United States and in other countries. Even if we are successful in bringing one or more product candidates to market, these products may not be considered cost-effective, and the amount reimbursed for any product candidates may be insufficient to allow us to sell our product candidates profitably. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend on a number of factors, including the third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is: • a covered benefit under its health plan; • safe, effective and medically necessary; 40 Table of Contents • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining reimbursement approval for a product from each government or third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process that will require the build-out of a sufficient staff and could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost- effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payor. Because none of our product candidates have been approved for marketing, we can provide no assurances at this time regarding their cost-effectiveness and the amount, if any, or method of reimbursement. Further, we can provide no assurance that the amounts, if any, reimbursed to surgical facilities for utilization of our surgery-related product candidates or to surgeons for the administration and delivery of these product candidates will be considered adequate to justify the use of these product candidates. There may be significant delays in obtaining reimbursement coverage for newly approved product candidates and we may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to reimbursement. Even when a payor determines that a product is eligible for reimbursement, coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the product candidate is approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies. Increasingly, third-party payors who reimburse healthcare costs, such as government and private payors, are requiring that companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and challenging the prices charged for medical products. Moreover, eligibility for coverage does not mean that any product candidate will be reimbursed at a rate that allows us to make a profit in all cases, or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacturing, sale and distribution. In non-U.S. jurisdictions, we must obtain separate reimbursement approvals and comply with related foreign legal and regulatory requirements. In some countries, including those in the European Union, our product candidates may be subject to government price controls. Pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take a considerable amount of time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product candidate. If the reimbursement we are able to obtain for any product candidate we develop is inadequate in light of our development and other costs or is significantly delayed, our business could be materially harmed. Product liability claims may damage our reputation and, if insurance proves inadequate, these claims may harm our business. We may be exposed to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the biopharmaceutical industry. A product liability claim may damage our reputation by raising questions about our product candidate’s safety and efficacy and could limit our ability to sell one or more product candidates, if approved, by preventing or interfering with commercialization of our product candidates. In addition, product liability insurance for the biopharmaceutical industry is generally expensive to the extent it is available at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain and maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that we will be able to secure increased coverage if the commercialization of our product candidates progresses, or that future claims against us will be covered by our product liability insurance. Although we currently have product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials, our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may be insufficient to reimburse us for any or all expenses or losses we may suffer. A successful claim against us with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 41 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. During the year ended December 31, 2011, our stock traded as high as $8.54 per share and as low as $3.16 per share. The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • results from our clinical development programs, including the data from our ongoing Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating OMS302 and OMS103HP that we expect to announce during the second half of 2012; • FDA or international regulatory actions, including failure to receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates; • announcements regarding the progress of our GPCR program; • failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced product candidates on a timely basis; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, regulatory approvals, clinical milestones, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • third-party coverage and reimbursement policies; • additions or departures of key personnel; • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; • our ability to meet our repayment and other obligations under our $20.0 million debt facility with Oxford, pursuant to which we had obligations of $19.9 million as of December 31, 2011; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • any major change in our board or management; • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets; and • political instability, natural disasters, war and/or events of terrorism. From time to time, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals or milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. Also, from time to time, we expect that we will publicly announce the anticipated timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet these milestones as publicly announced, our stock price may decline and the commercialization of our product and product candidates may be delayed. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of publicly traded companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of companies’ stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance. These fluctuations may be even more pronounced in the trading market for our stock. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. 42 Table of Contents We expect that we will seek additional capital in the future; however, such capital may not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all, when or as we require additional funding. If we issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that may be convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, our common stock, our existing shareholders would experience further dilution. Although we expect to seek additional capital, except for our committed equity line financing facility described below, we have no commitments for additional capital and cannot be certain that it will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Continued disruptions in the global equity and credit markets may further limit our ability to access capital. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, including pursuant to our committed equity line financing facility, our shareholders may experience significant dilution. Any debt financing, if available, may restrict our operations similar to our debt facility with Oxford. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of one or more of our product candidates or one or more of our other research and development initiatives. We also could be required to seek collaborators for one or more of our current or future product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable or on terms that are less favorable than otherwise might be available or to relinquish or license on unfavorable terms our rights to technologies or product candidates that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. We also may have insufficient funds or otherwise be unable to advance our preclinical programs, such as potential new drug targets developed from our GPCR program, to a point where they can generate revenue through partnerships, collaborations or other arrangements. Any of these events could significantly harm our business and prospects and could cause our stock price to decline. If we sell shares of our common stock under our committed equity line financing facility, our existing shareholders will experience immediate dilution and, as a result, our stock price may go down. In May 2011, we entered into a committed equity line financing facility, or financing arrangement, under which we may sell up to $40.0 million of our common stock to Azimuth Opportunity, Ltd., or Azimuth, over a 24-month period subject to a maximum of 4,427,562 shares of our common stock. If we elect to use the financing arrangement, the sale of shares of our common stock to Azimuth will have a dilutive impact on our existing shareholders. Azimuth may resell some or all of the shares we issue to it pursuant to the financing arrangement and such sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly with advances under the financing arrangement. To the extent of any such decline, any subsequent advances would require us to issue a greater number of shares of common stock to Azimuth in exchange for each dollar of the advance. Under these circumstances, our existing shareholders would experience greater dilution and the total amount of financing that we will be able to raise pursuant to the financing arrangement could be significantly lower than $40.0 million. Although Azimuth is precluded from short sales of shares acquired pursuant to advances under the financing arrangement, the sale of our common stock under the financing arrangement could encourage short sales by third parties, which could contribute to the further decline of our stock price. Future sales of shares by holders of outstanding warrants and options could cause our stock price to decline. Approximately 7.0 million shares of common stock that are either subject to outstanding warrants or subject to outstanding options or reserved for future issuance under our employee benefit plans will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Washington law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our shareholders, difficult and prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and under Washington law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on shareholder actions by less than unanimous written consent, restrictions on the ability of 43 Table of Contents shareholders to fill board vacancies and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Washington, we are governed by the provisions of Chapter 23B.19 of the Washington Business Corporation Act, which, among other things, restricts the ability of shareholders owning ten percent or more of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management by making it difficult for shareholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. We have never declared or paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Our business requires significant funding, and we have not generated any material revenue. We currently plan to invest all available funds and future earnings, if any, in the development and growth of our business. Therefore, we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, a rise in the market price of our common stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable, will be your sole source of potential gain in the foreseeable future, and you should not rely on an investment in our common stock for dividend income. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 