Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the risk factors described below, together with the other information contained in this report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Going Concern—See “Going Concern” in Note 1 of Notes to Financial Statements and page 24 of this Risk Factors section, in which we discuss the need to obtain additional financing in 2008. Risks Related to the Development of Our Product Candidates Failure to obtain product approvals by the FDA could harm our business. We are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the FDA. In the United States, our biologic product candidates, currently in the preclinical and clinical stages of development, cannot be marketed until they are approved by the FDA. Obtaining FDA approval involves the submission of the results of preclinical studies and clinical trials of the product candidates, among other information. We may not be able to obtain FDA approval, and, even if we are able to do so, the approval process typically takes many years and requires the commitment of substantial effort and financial resources. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a biologic product candidate for many reasons, including: · the FDA may not find that the biologic product candidate is sufficiently safe or effective; · FDA officials may interpret data from preclinical testing and clinical trials differently than we do; and · the FDA may not find our manufacturing processes or facilities satisfactory. In addition, the specific active immunotherapy technology on which Specifid is based is a relatively new form of cancer therapy that presents novel issues for the FDA to consider, which may make the regulatory process especially difficult. We cannot assure you that any of our product candidates in development will be approved in the United States in a timely fashion, or at all. Failure to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates in a timely fashion, or at all, would prevent or delay us from marketing or selling any products and, therefore, from generating revenues from their sale. If this occurs, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to attain or maintain profitability, our ability to raise additional capital will be impaired and our stock price may be negatively affected. In addition, both before and after approval, we are subject to numerous FDA requirements covering, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion and export of biologics. Failure to comply with the law, including statutes and regulations, administered by the FDA, could result in, among others, any of the following actions: · warning letters; · fines and other civil penalties; · unanticipated expenditures; · delays in approving or refusal to approve a product candidate; · product recall or seizure; · interruption of production; · operating restrictions; · injunctions; and · criminal prosecution. 21 We are dependent on the success of our lead product candidate, Specifid, and we cannot be certain that it will be commercialized. We have expended significant time, money and effort in the development of our lead product candidate, Specifid, which is still in clinical development, has not yet received regulatory approval and may never be commercialized. In order to commercialize Specifid, we will need to demonstrate to the FDA and other regulatory agencies that it satisfies rigorous standards of safety and effectiveness. We completed enrollment of patients in a registrational, double-blind, placebo controlled Phase 3 clinical trial of Specifid for the treatment of follicular B-cell NHL in January 2006 and randomized the last of the 349 patients June 2006. We are also evaluating Specifid for use in other B-cell NHL indications. However, even if we were to receive regulatory approval of Specifid for the treatment of follicular B-cell NHL or the other indications we are exploring, our ability to successfully commercialize Specifid could be jeopardized by the emergence of a competitive product that exhibits greater efficacy, longer duration of response or other benefits. In addition, because our initial regulatory and marketing strategy contemplates the administration of Specifid to patients following treatment with Rituxan, the commercial opportunity for Specifid may be limited by the degree to which oncologists continue to use Rituxan to treat indolent B-cell NHL. Furthermore, to the extent Specifid fails to gain market acceptance for its initial indication, it may be more difficult for us to generate sufficient credibility with physicians and patients to commercialize Specifid for other indications. Other than Specifid, we have only three other product development programs, which are at significantly earlier stages of development. In June 2006, we received an allowance from the FDA for an IND for a product candidate, FAV-201, for the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. We have ongoing preclinical studies to assess the applicability of our technology to autoimmune diseases, with an initial focus on multiple sclerosis. In June 2007, we acquired a series of optimized anti-CD20 antibodies from Diversa Corporation (now Verenium Corporation). We are currently initiating a plan to select a preferred candidate for preclinical studies. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully develop any product candidate from these development programs. We cannot be certain that the clinical development of Specifid or any other product candidate in preclinical testing or clinical trials will be successful, that it will receive the regulatory approvals required to commercialize it, or that any of our other research programs will yield a product candidate suitable for entry into clinical trials. If we are unable to commercialize Specifid or our other product candidates, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to attain or maintain profitability, our ability to raise additional capital will be impaired and our stock price may be negatively affected. Before we can seek regulatory approval of any of our product candidates, we must successfully complete clinical trials, which are uncertain. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process, and the results of these trials are inherently uncertain. We have completed enrollment of patients in several Phase 2 clinical trials of Specifid involving over 130 indolent B-cell NHL patients and are currently conducting follow-up evaluation of those patients. We completed registration of patients in a double-blind, placebo controlled Phase 3 registrational trial of Specifid for the treatment of follicular B-cell NHL in January 2006 and randomized the last of the 349 patients in June 2006. During the week of November 6, 2006, our independent Data Monitoring Board, or DMB, completed a planned interim analysis of data from the secondary endpoint, overall response improvement, in the first 226 patients enrolled in the trial. The DMB concluded that the interim analysis did not demonstrate a statistically significant difference between treatment and control groups in the secondary endpoint. On October 25, 2007, we announced that the DMB was convened to assess TTP for patients in the control group of our Phase 3 trial. The DMB assessment, which was conducted in accordance with the clinical protocol under our SPA, indicated that the control group behavior is consistent with data reported in the published literature on which we based our assumptions for trial design and statistical analysis. Based in part on the guidance provided by the DMB, we have determined April 2008 to be the appropriate time for data cutoff of the Phase 3 trial. We anticipate that the analysis of the data will be completed and made available no later than July 2008. However, we cannot guarantee when the necessary data from the trial will be available, and accordingly, we may not be able to complete final analysis of the TTP data within the projected timeframe. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that the control group behavior will ultimately be consistent with data reported in the published literature on which we based our assumptions for trial design and statistical analysis. Four additional Phase 2 clinical trials of Specifid are ongoing. In June 2006, we received an allowance from the FDA for an IND for our second product candidate, FAV-201, for the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. We have received a Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, from the FDA for our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial of Specifid. In the SPA process, the FDA reviewed the design, size and planned analysis of our Phase 3 clinical trial and provided comments regarding the trial’s adequacy to form a basis with respect to effectiveness for approval of a Biologics Licensing Application, or BLA, if the trial meets its predetermined objectives. We will not be able to file a BLA for Specifid until after we complete the analysis of the primary endpoint, TTP, of our ongoing registrational Phase 3 clinical trial. We anticipate the analysis of the primary endpoint to be completed and made available no later than July 2008. The FDA’s written agreement is binding, except in limited circumstances, such as when a substantial scientific issue essential to determining the safety or effectiveness of a product candidate is identified after the Phase 3 clinical trial has commenced. Despite having received an SPA, we may be required to conduct an additional Phase 3 clinical trial of 22 Specifid for the treatment of follicular B-cell NHL before we can apply for regulatory approval. Although the FDA typically requires successful results in two Phase 3 clinical trials to support marketing approval, the FDA has, on several occasions, approved products based on a single Phase 3 clinical trial that demonstrates a high level of statistical significance where there is an unmet need for a life-threatening condition. We currently plan to seek FDA approval of Specifid based on our ongoing pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial alone. In the event that the FDA requires the results of a second Phase 3 clinical trial before accepting a BLA or before granting marketing approval of Specifid, our launch of Specifid would be delayed, possibly by several years, and we would incur significant costs in conducting the additional trial. The preliminary, blinded clinical data reported from time to time prior to the release of the final results of our registrational Phase 3 clinical trial and the preliminary clinical data from our Phase 2 clinical trials have not been fully audited and have been taken from databases that have not been fully reconciled against medical records kept at the clinical sites or that may not include the most current information on patient disease progressions. The data released may not be indicative of the final results of our registrational Phase 3 clinical trial or any other clinical trial of Specifid. Failure can occur at any stage of testing. We do not know whether our Phase 3 clinical trial or any future clinical trials will demonstrate safety and efficacy sufficient to result in marketable products. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of Specifid will prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval for, or commercializing, Specifid. Completion of necessary clinical trials may take several years or more. Our commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: · ineffectiveness of the product candidate, or perceptions by physicians that the product candidate is not safe or effective for a particular indication; · inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the product candidate for use in clinical trials; · delay or failure in obtaining approval of our clinical trial protocols from the FDA; · slower than expected rate of patient recruitment and enrollment; · inability to adequately follow and monitor patients after treatment; · difficulty in managing multiple clinical sites; · unforeseen safety issues; and · government or regulatory delays. Even if we achieve positive interim results in clinical trials, these results do not necessarily predict final results, and positive results in early trials may not be indicative of success in later trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause us to repeat or terminate a clinical trial or require us to conduct additional trials. Our clinical trials may be suspended at any time for a variety of reasons, including if the FDA or we believe the patients participating in our trials are exposed to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in the conduct of these trials. Failures or perceived failures in our clinical trials will directly delay our product development and regulatory approval process, damage our business prospects, make it difficult for us to establish collaboration and partnership relationships, and negatively affect our reputation and competitive position in the pharmaceutical community. Failure to enroll patients in our clinical trials may cause delays in developing Specifid or any other product candidate. We may encounter delays in development and commercialization, or fail to obtain marketing approval, of Specifid or any other product candidate that we may develop if we are unable to enroll enough patients to complete clinical trials. Our ability to enroll sufficient numbers of patients in our clinical trials depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial and competing clinical trials. Although we completed patient enrollment in our registrational Phase 3 clinical trial of Specifid in January 2006, we have from time to time experienced slower-than-expected patient enrollment in our clinical trials and may do so in the future if additional clinical trials of Specifid are required or if we clinically develop any of our other product candidates. Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs and harm our ability to complete our clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval. The development of Specifid requires the continued availability of two FDA-approved drugs: GM-CSF and Rituxan, and if either of those drugs becomes unavailable we may not be able to continue development of, or commercialize, Specifid. Administration of Specifid requires an adjuvant, which is a substance that is used to enhance the immune response. We use a white blood cell growth factor known as GM-CSF, which is commercially available solely from Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals (formerly Berlex Laboratories, Inc.), as an adjuvant for Specifid. GM-CSF is an FDA-approved and commercially available drug that may be purchased by physicians. In February 2007, we entered into a clinical supply and study agreement with Berlex for clinical 23 trials of Specifid performed in the United States, prior to which time we relied on purchase orders to purchase GM-CSF from Berlex. If we require GM-CSF for use in clinical trials outside the United States, or for use in other clinical trials not covered by our agreement with Berlex, we will need to rely on purchase orders for such purchases. Our current strategy for the initial commercialization of Specifid involves the administration of Specifid following treatment with Rituxan. Rituxan is a passive immunotherapy for patients with NHL, which is also FDA-approved and is commercially available solely from Genentech, Inc. and Biogen Idec Inc. We currently rely on physicians to order and administer Rituxan to patients prior to the administration of Specifid in our registration trial. If GM-CSF or Rituxan were to become unavailable as a result of regulatory actions, supply constraints or other reasons, our ability to continue the clinical development of Specifid would be jeopardized. Risks Related to Our Financial Results and Need for Financing We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations for the foreseeable future. We are a development stage company with a limited operating history. We have financed our operations through private placements of common stock and warrants, public offerings of our common stock and warrants to purchase our common stock, equipment and leasehold debt financing, and our Committed Equity Financing Facility, or CEFF, through Kingsbridge Capital Limited. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception in 2000. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company reported net losses of $43.1 million, or $1.28 per share, compared to a net loss of $40.5 million, or $1.49 per share for 2006. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. We expect to incur substantial operating losses for at least the next several years. This is due primarily to the expansion of our clinical trials and research and development programs, preparations to manufacture Specifid on a commercial scale, and marketing, general and administrative expenses. We also have substantial lease and debt obligations related to our new manufacturing and headquarters facilities impacting our operating expenses. We expect that our losses will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year and that these fluctuations may be substantial. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully develop, manufacture, commercialize or market any products. As a result, we cannot guarantee that we will ever achieve or sustain product revenues or profitability. We currently have no source of revenue and may never become profitable. Our ability to become profitable will depend upon our ability to generate revenue. To date, Specifid has not generated any revenue, and we do not know when or if Specifid will generate revenue. Our ability to generate revenue depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: · successfully complete clinical trials for Specifid; · obtain regulatory approval for Specifid, including regulatory approval for our commercial scale manufacturing facility and process; · manufacture commercial quantities of Specifid at acceptable cost levels; and · successfully market and sell Specifid. We do not anticipate that we will generate revenues until 2009, at the earliest. Further, we do not expect to achieve profitability for at least several years after generating material revenues. If we are unable to generate revenue, we will not become profitable, and we may be unable to continue our operations. We may not be able to continue as a going concern. We will need substantial additional funds to continue operations, which we may not be able to raise on favorable terms, or at all. We will need substantial additional funds for existing and planned preclinical studies and clinical trials, to continue research and development activities, for lease and debt obligations related to our manufacturing and headquarter facilities, and to establish manufacturing and marketing capabilities for any products we may develop. In addition, because we do not expect to generate revenues from the sale of our product candidates for several years, if at all, we will also need to raise additional capital to fund our operations. As more fully described in Note 1 of the Notes to Financial Statements, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in their report on our 2007 financial statements related to the uncertainty of our ability to continue as a going concern. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, which were approximately $29.9 million at December 31, 2007, will allow us to complete analysis of the primary endpoint in our Phase 3 registration trial, which is anticipated to occur no later than July 2008, but we will need to raise additional financing to continue operations beyond such time. This cash forecast excludes any proceeds from our CEFF which is discussed below. Although we may seek additional financing prior to that time, potential equity investors or other capital resources may not be willing to provide funding before our Phase 3 results are available. If the results of our Phase 3 trial are negative or inconclusive, we may not be able to raise the necessary funds to continue as a going concern entity. Even if the results of our Phase 3 trial are positive, we will need to raise additional financing within a very short period after completion of our analysis of such results in order to continue the clinical development activities necessary for completion of a BLA and prepare for commercialization, and we may not be able to complete a financing, either on favorable terms or at all, within such period. If we are unable to complete an equity offering, or otherwise obtain sufficient financing, we may be required to reduce, defer, or discontinue our clinical development activities or may not be able to continue as a going concern entity. 24 Our forecast of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support our operations is a forward-looking statement and involves risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary as a result of a number of factors, including the factors discussed elsewhere in these risk factors. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could utilize our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. Our future capital requirements or the adequacy of our available funds will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: · the results of our ongoing Phase 3 registration trial of Specifid; · magnitude and cost of our product development efforts and other research and development activities; · rate of progress toward obtaining regulatory approval for Specifid and our other product candidates; · costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing our patent claims and other intellectual property rights; · our ability to establish and maintain collaborative, licensing or other arrangements for the development, sale, marketing or distribution of our product candidates and the terms of those arrangements; · effects of competing technological and market developments; · the cost of expansion of our current facility for commercial production or the construction of a large separate commercial-scale production facility; and · the success of the commercialization of Specifid. Future capital requirements will also depend on the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products and technologies, but we currently have no commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions. To that end, on June 20, 2006, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC on Form S-3 pursuant to which we may periodically sell up to $60 million in debt securities, common stock or warrants to purchase debt securities or common stock. In February 2007, we sold $10 million of common stock and in November 2007, we sold $21.1 million of common stock and warrants pursuant to the shelf registration statement. Additionally, we have entered into the CEFF pursuant to which Kingsbridge committed to purchase, subject to certain conditions, up to $40 million of our common stock. In July 2007, we sold 462,195 shares of common stock to Kingsbridge pursuant to the CEFF for gross proceeds totaling $1.4 million. In September 2007, we issued an aggregate of 673,395 shares of our common stock to Kingsbridge at an aggregate purchase price of $1.9 million. We may seek to access the public or private equity markets whenever conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. Additional funding may not be available to us, and, if available, may not be on acceptable terms. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders will incur immediate dilution. If adequate funds are not available to us, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research, development and clinical activities. Alternatively, we may need to seek funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others that require us to relinquish rights to technologies or product candidates that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow. Our credit facilities with Oxford Finance Corporation and GE Capital Corporation include a restrictive financial covenant, violation of which could restrict a significant amount of our available cash balances. Our loan and security agreements with Oxford Finance Corporation and GE Capital Corporation, or the lenders, contain a restrictive financial covenant requiring us to maintain a minimum of $15 million in available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, or available cash balances. If our available cash balances drop below $15 million, the lenders could require us to execute a letter of credit, or LOC, for their benefit equal to the outstanding loan balances at that time. We would be required to use a significant amount of our available cash balance to collateralize the LOC which would reduce the cash available to fund operations of the Company. Our committed equity financing facility with Kingsbridge may not be available to us if we elect to make a draw down, may require us to make additional “blackout” or other payments to Kingsbridge and may result in dilution to our stockholders. In December 2006, we entered into the CEFF with Kingsbridge. The CEFF entitles us to sell and obligates Kingsbridge to purchase, from time to time over a period of 36 months, shares of our common stock for cash consideration up to an aggregate of $40 million, subject to specified conditions and restrictions. Kingsbridge will not be obligated to purchase shares under the CEFF unless specified conditions are met, which include a minimum price for our common stock; the accuracy of representations and warranties made to Kingsbridge; compliance with laws; and the effectiveness of a registration statement registering for resale the shares of common stock to be issued in connection with the CEFF. In addition, among other termination rights, Kingsbridge is permitted to terminate the CEFF 25 by providing written notice to us within 10 business days after it obtains actual knowledge that an event has occurred resulting in a material and adverse effect on our business, operations, properties or financial condition (subject to specified exceptions, including conditions or events that are reasonably expected to occur in the ordinary course of our business). If we are unable to access funds through the CEFF, or if Kingsbridge terminates the CEFF, we may be unable to access capital on favorable terms, or at all. In July 2007, we issued an aggregate of 462,195 shares of our common stock to Kingsbridge at an aggregate purchase price of $1.4 million. In September 2007, we issued an aggregate of 673,395 shares of our common stock to Kingsbridge at an aggregate purchase price of $1.9 million. We are entitled, in certain circumstances, to deliver a “blackout” notice to Kingsbridge to suspend the use of the prospectus included in the resale registration statement and prohibit Kingsbridge from selling shares under such prospectus for a certain period of time. If we deliver a blackout notice in the 60 trading days following the settlement of a draw down and the volume weighted average price on the trading day immediately preceding the related blackout period is greater than the volume weighted average price on the first trading day following such blackout period, or if such registration statement is not effective in circumstances not permitted by our registration rights agreement with Kingsbridge, then we must make a payment to Kingsbridge, or issue Kingsbridge additional shares in lieu of this payment, calculated on the basis of a specified number of shares held by Kingsbridge immediately prior to the blackout period and the change in the market price of our common stock during the period in which the use of the registration statement is suspended. If the trading price of our common stock declines during a suspension of the resale registration statement, the blackout or other payment could be significant. Should we sell shares to Kingsbridge under the CEFF, or issue shares in lieu of a blackout payment, it will have a dilutive effect on the holdings of our current stockholders and may result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. If we draw down amounts under the CEFF, we will issue shares to Kingsbridge at a discount of up to 10% from the volume weighted average price of our common stock. If we draw down amounts under the CEFF when our stock price is decreasing, we will need to issue more shares to raise the same amount than if our stock price was higher. Issuances in the face of a declining stock price will have an even greater dilutive effect than if our stock price were stable or increasing and may further decrease our stock price. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may cause adverse unexpected revenue or expense fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Other Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We currently depend on single source suppliers for critical raw materials for manufacturing. The loss of these suppliers could delay our clinical trials or prevent or delay commercialization of Specifid. We currently depend on single source suppliers for critical raw materials used in the manufacture of Specifid. In particular, our manufacturing process for Specifid requires a foreign protein derived from shellfish that is known as keyhole limpet hemocyanin, or KLH. We purchase KLH from biosyn Arzneimittel GmbH, or biosyn, which is currently the only supplier of KLH that has submitted the required filing, known as a drug master file, to the FDA. In November 2004, we entered into an eight-year supply and license agreement with biosyn under which biosyn has agreed to supply us with KLH and we have agreed to make payments upon the achievement of certain milestones and committed to annual KLH purchase requirements during the commercialization of Specifid. Either party may terminate the supply agreement upon a breach by the other party that is not cured within 60 days or other events relating to insolvency or bankruptcy. If we identify another supplier of KLH of suitable quality for our purposes, we will not be able to use the supplier as a second source of KLH for the commercial manufacture of Specifid unless the KLH is tested to be comparable to the existing KLH. In addition, we depend on a single source supplier for the cell growth media we use to produce Specifid. We purchase this material from Expression Systems LLC, which in turn obtains several of the components used in the cell growth media from sole suppliers. In April 2007, we executed five-year supply and non-exclusive license agreements with Expression Systems. Each agreement is renewable for one three-year period at our option. Under the terms of the agreements, we have the right to purchase raw material components from Expression Systems and manufacture the cell growth media in-house. Establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these materials may take a substantial amount of time. In addition, we may have difficulty obtaining similar materials from other suppliers that are acceptable to the FDA. If we have to switch to a replacement supplier, we may face additional regulatory delays and the manufacture and delivery of Specifid, or any other product candidates that 26 we may develop, could be interrupted for an extended period of time, which may delay completion of our clinical trials or commercialization. If we are unable to obtain adequate amounts of these materials, our clinical trials will be delayed. In addition, we will be required to obtain regulatory clearance from the FDA to use different materials that may not be as safe or as effective. As a result, regulatory approval of Specifid, or any other product candidates that we may develop, may not be received at all. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be delayed or may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize Specifid or any other product candidates that we may develop. Our registrational Phase 3 clinical trial of Specifid for the treatment of follicular B-cell NHL is being conducted at 67 centers in the United States and will require long-term follow up of at least 342 patients randomized into the trial. One clinical trial of Specifid is being conducted under the direction of a physician sponsor, rather than under our supervision. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for Specifid, or any other product candidate that we may develop, and we must rely on third parties, such as medical institutions and clinical investigators, including physician sponsors, to conduct our clinical trials. In particular, we will rely on these parties to recruit and enroll patients in our clinical trials. We also rely on third-party couriers to transport patient tissue samples and Specifid. If any of the third parties upon whom we rely to conduct our clinical trials or transport patient tissue samples and immunotherapies do not comply with applicable laws, successfully carry out their obligations or meet expected deadlines, and need to be replaced, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. If the quality or accuracy of the clinical data obtained by medical institutions and clinical investigators, including physician sponsors and other third-party vendors involved in data management, is compromised due to their failure to adhere to applicable laws or our clinical protocols or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize Specifid, or any other product candidates that we may develop. If any of our relationships with any of these organizations or individuals terminates, we believe that we would be able to enter into arrangements with alternative third parties. However, replacing any of these third parties would delay our clinical trials and could jeopardize our ability to commercialize Specifid and our other product candidates on a timely basis, or at all. Even if we obtain regulatory approval, we will continue to be subject to extensive government regulation that may cause us to delay the introduction of our products or withdraw our products from the market. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for Specifid or our other product candidates, we will still be subject to extensive regulation. These regulations will impact many aspects of our operations, including production, record keeping, quality control, adverse event reporting, storage, labeling, advertising, promotion and personnel. In addition, the later discovery of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions of the product candidates, including their withdrawal from the market. Furthermore, regulatory approval may subject us to ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. If we or any third party that we involve in our operations fail to comply with any continuing regulations, we may be subject to, among other things, product seizures, recalls, fines or other civil penalties, injunctions, suspensions or revocations of marketing licenses, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Before we can obtain marketing approval for or commercially distribute Specifid, we must have a commercial-scale facility for the manufacture of Specifid. In addition, the FDA and the California Department of Health Services must find our manufacturing facility and process satisfactory. Our manufacturing methods, equipment and processes must comply with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, requirements. We may also need to perform extensive audits of vendors, contract laboratories and suppliers. The cGMP requirements govern, among other things, record keeping, production processes and controls, personnel and quality control. We have only undertaken initial steps towards achieving compliance with these regulatory requirements. Additional steps will require expenditure of significant time, money and effort. We cannot predict the likelihood that the FDA will find our facility satisfactory, even if we believe that we have taken the necessary steps to achieve compliance. If we fail to comply with these requirements or fail to pass a pre-approval inspection of our manufacturing facility in connection with an application to obtain marketing approval for Specifid or another product candidate, we would not receive regulatory approval, and we would be subject to possible regulatory action. We manufacture Specifid for our ongoing Phase 3 registration trial and for the planned and ongoing Phase 2 clinical trials at our facility in San Diego, California. We currently lease an 80,000 square foot facility in San Diego under a long-term lease agreement. Our facility was inspected and licensed by the California Department of Health Services. Our facility is subject to re-inspection at any time. Failure to maintain a license from the California Department of Health Services or to meet the inspection criteria of the California Department of Health Services would disrupt our manufacturing processes and prevent us from supplying Specifid to patients. If an inspection by the California Department of Health Services indicates that there are deficiencies in our manufacturing process, we could be required to take remedial actions at potentially significant expense, and our facility may be temporarily or permanently closed. 27 We expanded and qualified our current facility for commercial scale manufacturing in order to commercialize Specifid or any other product candidates that we may develop. We completed construction to expand this facility during the second quarter of 2007. The entire 80,000 square foot facility will be dedicated to manufacturing. We cannot assure you that we would be able to meet commercial demand for Specifid in this facility. Additionally, we may require a larger production facility to meet the demand for Specifid if it is approved. We would need to raise additional debt or equity capital to finance construction of the larger facility. Such financing may not be available or, if available, may not be obtained on terms favorable to us or our stockholders. Preparing a facility for commercial manufacturing may involve unanticipated delays and the costs of complying with FDA regulations may be significant. In addition, any material changes we make to the manufacturing process after approval may require approval by the FDA and state regulatory authorities. Obtaining these approvals is a lengthy, involved process, and we may experience delays that could limit our ability to manufacture commercial quantities, increase our costs and adversely affect our business. We may experience difficulties in manufacturing Specifid or any other product candidates that we may develop, which could prevent us from completing our ongoing clinical trials and commercializing these product candidates. Manufacturing Specifid is a complex, multi-step process that requires us to expend significant time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality systems to assure that Specifid will meet product specifications and other regulatory requirements. To date, we have manufactured Specifid only for use in Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials and have no experience in manufacturing Specifid for the commercial quantities that might be required if we receive regulatory approval. In particular, we cannot be sure that we will be able to manufacture Specifid at a cost that would enable commercial use. We may experience any of the following problems in our efforts to manufacture our product candidates for our expanding clinical trials or on a commercial scale: · failure to obtain a sufficient supply of key raw materials; · difficulties in completing the development and validation of the specialized assays required to ensure the consistency of our product candidates, including Specifid; · difficulties in obtaining adequate tumor samples from treating physicians and hospitals; · difficulties in manufacturing Specifid for multiple patients simultaneously; · difficulties in the timely shipping of tumor samples to us or in the shipping of Specifid to the treating physicians due to errors by third-party couriers, transportation restrictions or other reasons; · failure to ensure adequate quality control and assurance in the manufacturing process as we increase the production quantities of Specifid; · difficulties in establishing and effectively managing a commercial-scale manufacturing facility; · failure to comply with regulatory requirements, such as FDA regulations and environmental laws; · significant changes in regulatory requirements; · damage to or destruction of our manufacturing facility or equipment; · difficulty in qualifying a second-source supplier for certain critical equipment; and · shortages of qualified personnel. In addition, because our manufacturing process only begins upon our receipt of a patient’s tumor biopsy, we cannot produce inventory reserves of our product candidate to be stored in anticipation of any of these potential manufacturing problems. The failure to produce an adequate supply of Specifid could delay our clinical trials and, in turn, delay submission of a BLA for Specifid and commercial launch. Similarly, any difficulties we experience in the manufacture and supply of other product candidates, such as FAV-201, would delay the clinical trials of those product candidates. If our manufacturing facility is damaged or destroyed, our ability to manufacture products will be significantly affected, which could delay or prevent completion of our clinical trials and commercialization of Specifid or any other product candidates that we may develop. We currently rely on the availability and condition of our manufacturing facility in San Diego to manufacture Specifid. We lease the property where this facility is located under a lease agreement that expires June 30, 2025, but may be extended at our option for two additional five-year periods. After that time, we may not be able to negotiate a new lease for our facility. If our current facility or any additional facility we may construct or acquire, or our equipment in such facilities, is damaged or destroyed, we will not be able to quickly or inexpensively replace our manufacturing capacity. This would significantly affect our ability to complete clinical trials of, and to manufacture and commercialize, Specifid, or any other product candidates that we may develop. 28 In addition, our facilities have been subject to electrical blackouts as a result of a shortage of available electrical power. Although we have back-up emergency power generators to cover energy needs for key support systems, a lengthy outage could disrupt the operations of our facilities and clinical trials. While we carry business interruption insurance, this insurance may not be adequate. Any significant business interruption could cause delays in our product development and harm our business. If we do not develop a sufficient sales and marketing force or enter into agreements with third parties to sell and market Specifid, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products, which would limit our ability to earn product revenues. We have exclusive worldwide rights to Specifid. If we are successful in obtaining BLA approval or foreign marketing approval for Specifid, we will need to establish sales and marketing capabilities. In the United States, we plan to do this either by establishing our own sales force or by entering into a co-promotion arrangement with a sales and distribution partner. Outside of the United States, we plan to establish strategic collaborations for the development and marketing of Specifid. We do not presently possess the resources or experience necessary to market Specifid or our other product candidates ourselves, and we currently have no arrangements for the promotion or distribution of our product candidates. Our future commercial success will depend on our ability to establish our own sales and marketing infrastructure or to collaborate with third parties that have greater sales and marketing experience and resources. Developing effective internal sales and marketing capabilities, which would include the hiring of a sales force, would require a significant amount of our financial resources and time. We may be unable to establish and manage an effective sales force in a timely or cost-effective manner, or at all, and any sales force we do establish may not be capable of generating demand for Specifid or any other product candidate we may develop. In addition, if we cannot enter into co-promotion arrangements in the United States, or other strategic collaborations for the development and marketing of Specifid in other countries, in a timely manner and on acceptable terms, we may not be able to successfully commercialize Specifid or any other product candidate that we may develop. To the extent that we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold Specifid, or any other product candidates that we may develop. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we will not be able to generate product revenue and will not become profitable. If physicians and patients do not use any of our products that may be approved, our ability to generate revenue in the future will be limited. If approved, Specifid and other product candidates that we may develop may not gain market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payors, patients and the medical community. Demand for any approved product that we may develop will depend on many factors, including: · our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; · convenience and ease of administration; · availability of alternative treatments; · cost effectiveness; · continuing widespread use of Rituxan to treat our initial target disease market; · effectiveness of our regulatory and marketing strategies; · prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; · publicity concerning our products or competitive products; and · our ability to obtain third-party coverage or reimbursement. Furthermore, to the extent Specifid fails to gain market acceptance for its initial indication, it may be more difficult for us to generate sufficient credibility with physicians and patients to commercialize Specifid for other indications. If we are unable to obtain acceptable prices or adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for Specifid, or any other product candidates that we may develop, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. Our ability to commercialize Specifid, or any other product candidates that we may develop, depends on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for Specifid, or any other product candidates that we may develop, will be available from: · governmental payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid; · private health insurers, including managed care organizations; and · other third-party payors. 29 Many patients will not be capable of paying for Specifid, and may be incapable of paying for any other product candidates that we may develop, themselves and will rely on third-party payors to pay for their medical needs. The federal and state governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other third-party payors are actively seeking to contain or reduce costs of health care in the United States and exert increasing influence on decisions regarding the use of, and reimbursement levels for, particular treatments. Such third-party payors, including Medicare, are scrutinizing newly approved medical products and services and may not cover or may limit coverage and reimbursement for our product candidates. In particular, third-party payors may limit the indications for which they will reimburse patients who use Specifid, or any other product candidates that we may develop. Cost-control initiatives could cause us to decrease the price we might establish for Specifid, or any other product candidates that we may develop, which would result in lower product revenues. If the prices for Specifid, or any other product candidates that we may develop, decrease or if governmental and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for Specifid, or any other product candidates that we may develop, our revenue and prospects for profitability will suffer. If we are unable to establish or manage strategic collaborations in the future, our revenue and product development may be limited. Our strategy may include reliance on strategic collaborations for co-promotion of Specifid in the United States. In addition, we expect to rely on strategic collaborators for commercialization of Specifid outside of the United States and, to an even greater extent, for worldwide development and commercialization of product candidates and programs for chronic autoimmune diseases, such as multiple sclerosis. To date, we have not entered into any agreements with third parties for any of these services. Establishing strategic collaborations is difficult and time-consuming. Our discussions with potential collaborators may not lead to the establishment of new collaborations on favorable terms, or at all. For example, potential partners may reject collaborations based upon their assessment of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position. If we successfully establish new collaborations, these relationships may never result in the successful development or commercialization of our product candidates or the generation of sales revenue. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other collaborative arrangements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold any products that we may develop. Management of any collaborative relationship we may establish in the future will require: · significant time and effort from our management team; · coordination of our research and development programs with the research and development priorities of our collaborators; and · effective allocation of our resources to multiple projects. If we enter into development or commercialization collaborations, our success will in part depend on the performance of our corporate collaborators. We likely will not directly control the amount or timing of resources devoted by our corporate collaborators to activities related to our product candidates. Our corporate collaborators may not commit sufficient resources to our research and development programs or the commercialization, marketing or distribution of our product candidates. If any corporate collaborator fails to commit sufficient resources, our preclinical or clinical development related to the collaboration could be delayed or terminated. Also, our collaborators may pursue development or commercialization of other products, product candidates or alternative technologies in preference to our product candidates. Finally, our collaborators may terminate our relationships, and we may be unable to establish additional corporate collaborations in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. Our efforts to discover, develop and commercialize new product candidates beyond Specifid are at an early stage and are subject to a high risk of failure. Our strategy is focused on the research, development and commercialization of targeted immunotherapies for the treatment of cancer and other diseases of the immune system. The process of successfully developing product candidates is very time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. We have only recently begun to direct significant effort toward the development of product candidates in addition to Specifid, such as FAV-201 for T-cell lymphoma and a preclinical product candidate for the treatment of multiple sclerosis. In addition, we acquired a series of optimized anti-CD20 antibodies in June 2007. We are currently initiating a plan to select a preferred candidate for initiating preclinical studies. Development of these product candidates will depend substantially upon the availability of funding for our research and development programs. We do not know whether our planned preclinical studies or clinical trials for these other product candidates will begin on time or be completed on schedule, or at all. In addition, we do not know whether these clinical trials will result in marketable products. Typically, there is a high rate of attrition for product candidates in preclinical and clinical trials. We do not anticipate that any of our product candidates will reach the market for at least several years. 30 We may not identify, develop or commercialize any additional new product candidates from our proprietary active immunotherapy technology. Our ability to develop successfully any of these product candidates depends on our ability to demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans through extensive preclinical testing and clinical trials and to obtain regulatory approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than our existing product candidates or others we may develop, or obtain marketing approval before we do, our commercial opportunity may be reduced or eliminated. The development and commercialization of new pharmaceutical products for the treatment of cancer and autoimmune diseases is competitive, and we will face competition from numerous sources, including major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources and development, production and marketing capabilities than we do. In addition, many of these companies have more experience than we do in preclinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing of biologic therapeutics, as well as in obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals. We will also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies and private organizations that are conducting research in the fields of cancer and autoimmune disease. Competition among these entities to recruit and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and professional personnel and consultants is also intense. We are aware of a number of companies that are developing active immunotherapies to treat B-cell NHL. Genitope Corporation, or Genitope, is evaluating its idiotype immunotherapy product candidate, MyVax (Id-KLH), or MyVax, in a Phase 3 clinical trial in patients with follicular B-cell NHL who are in remission following prior treatment with chemotherapy. Top-line results of the MyVax pivotal Phase III trial were announced in December 2007. Genitope reported that the trial was unable to show a statistical benefit in progression free survival for patients receiving MyVax plus GM-CSF versus KLH plus GM-CSF. Antigenics, Inc. completed a Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating its active immunotherapy candidate in indolent NHL patients. The NCI is also conducting a Phase 3 clinical trial of an active idiotype immunotherapy in collaboration with Accentia Biopharmaceuticals. Several companies are engaged in the development and commercialization of passive immunotherapy products for the treatment of B-cell NHL that may compete with Specifid. Genentech and Biogen Idec are co-marketing Rituxan for the treatment of relapsed or refractory, indolent B-cell NHL. Cell Therapeutics, Inc. is marketing Zevalin, a passive radioimmunotherapy product. GlaxoSmithKline plc currently markets Bexxar, a passive radioimmunotherapy product. The most recent advances in the treatment of B-cell NHL have involved the combination of existing products and changes to approved schedules and doses, particularly for Rituxan. Numerous clinical trials reported in recent years have indicated that additional doses of Rituxan and maintenance dosing of Rituxan can improve TTP in patients who respond to therapy. Combination therapies involving chemotherapeutic or immunostimulatory drugs in combination with Rituxan at various doses and schedules may provide patients with an increase in TTP over that expected with Rituxan alone. Accordingly, we may face competition as a result of developments in this area. We expect that our ability to compete effectively will depend upon our ability to: · successfully and rapidly complete clinical trials and obtain all requisite regulatory approvals in a cost-effective manner; · reliably and cost-effectively manufacture sufficient quantities of our products; · maintain a proprietary position for our manufacturing process and other technology; · price our products competitively; · obtain appropriate reimbursement approvals for our products; · establish an adequate sales and marketing force for our products; and · attract and retain key personnel. In addition, our ability to compete effectively will depend on the relative efficacy and safety of other active immunotherapy products approved for sale as compared to our own products. We are subject to new legislation, regulatory proposals and managed care initiatives that may increase our costs of compliance and adversely affect our ability to market our products, obtain collaborators and raise capital. There have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system and pharmaceutical industry, including reductions in the cost of prescription products and changes in the levels at which consumers and healthcare providers are reimbursed for purchases of pharmaceutical products. For example, the Prescription Drug and Medicare Improvement 31 Act of 2003 was recently enacted. This legislation provides for a Medicare prescription drug benefit which began in 2006 and mandates other reforms. Although we cannot predict the full effects on our business of the implementation of this new legislation, it is possible that the new benefit, which will be managed by private health insurers, pharmacy benefit managers and other managed care organizations, will result in decreased reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce the prices charged for prescription drugs. This could harm our ability to market our products and generate revenues. However, we expect that Specifid will be administered under the supervision of a physician and, therefore, fall outside of the prescription drug legislation. We depend on attracting and retaining key scientific and management personnel to advance our technology, and the loss of these personnel could impair the development of our products. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical and scientific personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions, clinicians and scientists. We are highly dependent upon our senior management and scientific staff, particularly John P. Longenecker, Ph.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Daniel P. Gold, Ph.D., one of our co-founders and our Chief Scientific Officer. The loss of services of Dr. Longenecker or Dr. Gold, or one or more of our other members of senior management, could delay or prevent the successful completion of our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial or the commercialization of Specifid. Although we have employment agreements with each of our executives, their employment with us is “at will,” and each executive can terminate his or her agreement with us at any time. We do not carry “key person” insurance covering members of senior management, other than Drs. Longenecker and Gold. This insurance may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms and may prove inadequate to compensate us for the loss of their services. The competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field is intense. In particular, our manufacturing process depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified manufacturing and quality control personnel. We will need to hire additional personnel as we continue to expand our manufacturing, research and development activities. We may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other companies. We are not aware of any key personnel planning to retire or terminate their employment in the near future. We may need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. As of December 31, 2007, we had 155 employees. Of these, 127 employees were in research and development which was comprised of 89 in manufacturing, quality control and quality assurance, 33 in research and process development, and five members of senior management. Of the remaining employees, three were members of senior management and 25 were in marketing, general and administration. If results of our Phase 3 registration trial are positive, we will need to expand our financial, managerial, operational and other resources in order to continue our clinical trials and commercialize Specifid, FAV-201, or any other product candidates that we may develop. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on our management team, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees, and could impose significant added expenses to our operations. Our ability to commercialize Specifid, FAV-201, or any other product candidates that we may develop, and our future financial performance in general, will depend in part on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. In order to meet these challenges, we would need to: · manage our clinical trials effectively; · manage our research and development efforts effectively; · develop our administrative, accounting and management information systems and controls; and · hire, train and integrate additional management, administrative, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could harm our business or future prospects. If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury or violates laws, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the use of biological and hazardous materials that could be dangerous to human health, safety or the environment. Although we believe our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources. We currently maintain property and casualty insurance coverage which covers liability for hazardous and controlled materials. However, this insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our liability and we may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage in the future at a reasonable cost. In addition, we may incur significant costs complying with both existing and future environmental laws and regulations. In particular, we are subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, and the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and to regulation under the Toxic Substances Control Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. OSHA, the EPA or other agencies may adopt regulations that adversely affect our research and development programs. 32 We face a risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that may arise from the clinical testing of our product candidates and the manufacture and sale of any approved products. These risks will exist even with respect to those product candidates that are approved for commercial sale by the FDA and manufactured in facilities regulated by the FDA. Any product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could significantly harm our business by, among other things, reducing demand for our products, injuring our reputation and creating significant adverse media attention and costly litigation. Plaintiffs have received substantial damage awards in some jurisdictions against pharmaceutical companies based upon claims for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their products. Any judgment against us that is in excess of our insurance policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. We currently maintain clinical trial insurance. Although we believe our current insurance coverage is adequate, we cannot be certain that it will be sufficient. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our current insurance coverage will continue to be available, or that increased coverage, which will be necessary if we are able to commercialize our products, will be available in the future on reasonable terms, or at all. Further, we may not have sufficient capital resources to pay a judgment, in which case our creditors could levy claims against our assets, including our intellectual property. We could be negatively impacted by future interpretation or implementation of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws and other federal and state anti-referral laws. If we are able to commercialize Specifid or any other product candidates that we may develop, we will be subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs. Because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor, inadvertent irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that a statute or prohibition has been violated. Any violations of these laws, or any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some allegations under these laws have been claimed to violate the False Claims Act, discussed in more detail below. In addition, if we are able to commercialize Specifid or any other product candidates that we may develop, we could become subject to false claims litigation under federal statutes, which can lead to civil money penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. These false claims statutes include the False Claims Act, which allows any person to bring suit on behalf of the United States federal government alleging the submission of false or fraudulent claims, or causing to present such false or fraudulent claims, under federal programs or contracts claims or other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. These suits against biotechnology companies have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that a healthcare company will have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be excluded from the Medicare, Medicaid or other federal and state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. We cannot assure you that we will not become subject to such litigation or, if we are not successful in defending against such actions, that such actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that the costs of defending claims or allegations under the False Claims Act will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Potential Litigation If we are unable to obtain and maintain protection for our intellectual property, the value of our technology and products may be adversely affected. Our business and competitive positions are dependent upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our product and technologies, preserve trade secrets and operate without infringing the intellectual property right of others. Because of the substantial length of time and expense associated with development of new products, we, along with the rest of the biopharmaceutical industry, place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent protection for new technologies, products and processes. The patent positions of pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including us, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our patent applications may not protect our technologies and products because, among other things: 33 · there is no guarantee that any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; · we may develop additional proprietary technologies that are not patentable; · there is no guarantee that any patents issued to us, our collaborators or our licensors will provide a basis for a commercially viable product; · there is no guarantee that any patents issued to us or our collaborators or our licensors will provide us with any competitive advantage; · there is no guarantee that any patents issued to us or our collaborators or our licensors will not be challenged, circumvented or invalidated by third parties; and · there is no guarantee that any patents previously issued to others or issued in the future will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property position by filing United States patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. Currently we own U.S. Patent No. 6,911,204 concerning the treatment of NHL with our technology together with five pending United States patent applications covering methods of treating immune system diseases, including B-cell and T-cell lymphomas, using our proprietary immunotherapy production methods, as well as methods for combining the idiotype immunotherapies with other therapies that are used to treat diseases of the immune system, as well as a panel of optimized anti-CD20 antibodies and their use in treating immune system diseases. Outside of the United States, we have six issued patents and over twenty pending patent applications. Limitations on patent protection in some countries outside the United States, and the differences in what constitutes patentable subject matter in these countries, may limit the protection we have under patents issued to us outside of the United States. In addition, laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as would laws of the United States. In determining whether or not to seek a patent or to license any patent in a particular foreign country, we weigh the relevant costs and benefits, and consider, among other things, the market potential of our product candidates in the jurisdiction, and the scope and enforceability of patent protection afforded by the law of the jurisdiction. Failure to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary product candidates and technology would impair our ability to be commercially competitive in these markets. Although we believe our issued patents, as well as our patent applications if they issue as patents, will provide a competitive advantage, we may not be able to develop additional patentable products or processes. Further, we may not be able to obtain patents from any of the pending applications. Even if patent claims are allowed, the claims may not issue, or in the event of issuance, may not be sufficient to protect our technology. In addition, any patents or patent rights we obtain may be circumvented, challenged or invalidated by our competitors. We are not able to prevent others, including potential competitors, from using certain types of patient-specific idiotype protein-KLH conjugates, like those we use in our lead product candidate, Specifid, for the treatment of indolent B-cell NHL. Certain types of patient-specific idiotype-KLH conjugates, comprising single idiotype proteins, and their use for the treatment of indolent B-cell NHL are in the public domain and therefore cannot be patented. Consequently, we may only be able to seek patent protection for methods of treating immune system diseases, including B-cell and T-cell lymphomas, using our proprietary immunotherapy production methods for making idiotype protein conjugates and compositions comprising such conjugates, as well as methods for combining the idiotype or T-cell receptor-based immunotherapies with other therapies that are used to treat diseases of the immune system. As a result, we may not be able to prevent other companies using different manufacturing processes from developing active immunotherapies that directly compete with Specifid. We may have to engage in costly litigation to enforce our proprietary rights or to defend challenges to our intellectual property by our competitors, which may harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. The pharmaceutical field is characterized by a large number of patent filings involving complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, we cannot predict with certainty whether our patents will be enforceable. Competitors may have filed applications for or have been issued patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights related to products or processes that compete with or are similar to ours. We may not be aware of all of the patents potentially adverse to our interests that may have been issued to others. Litigation may be necessary to protect our patent position, and we cannot be certain that we will have the required resources to pursue litigation or otherwise to protect our patent rights. In addition, our efforts to protect our patents may not be successful. 34 Our ability to market our products may be impaired by the intellectual property rights of third parties. Our commercial success will depend in part on not infringing the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We are aware of competing intellectual property relating to active idiotype immunotherapies for cancer. Competitors or third parties may be issued, or may currently hold, patents that may cover subject matter that we use in developing the technology required to bring our product candidates to market, that we use in producing our product candidates, or that we use in treating patients with our product candidates. In addition, from time to time we receive correspondence inviting us to license patents from third parties. While we currently believe we have freedom to operate in our area, others may challenge our position in the future. There has been, and we believe that there will continue to be, significant litigation in the pharmaceutical industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. While we believe that our pre-commercialization activities fall within the scope of an available exemption against patent infringement provided by 35 U.S.C. §271(e), and that our subsequent manufacture of our commercial products will also not require the license of any patents, claims may be brought against us in the future based on these or other patents held by others. As our product candidates progress toward commercialization, competitors or other parties may assert that we infringe on their patents or proprietary rights. In particular, we are aware of the following third party patents: · Genentech and City of Hope National Medical Center hold patent rights related to the expression of recombinant antibodies; · Genitope holds patent rights relating to immunotherapy using idiotype proteins produced using T-lymphoid cells for the treatment of B-Cell lymphoma; and · Schering Corp. holds patent rights relating to the use of GM-CSF as a vaccine adjuvant for use against infectious diseases. The first patent listed above was issued to Genentech in 2001. We do not believe that this patent covers our technology, and we note that in May 2005, a third party filed a request for reexamination of this patent with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, requesting that the claims of this patent be reexamined as to their patentability; the reexamination is currently pending. During reexamination the issued claims were rejected; proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office continue. If this patent reissues and we decide to attempt to obtain a license for this patent, we cannot guarantee that we would be able to obtain such a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Additionally, because patent prosecution can proceed in secret prior to issuance of a patent, third parties may obtain other patents with claims of unknown scope relating to our product candidates, which they could attempt to assert against us. Further, as we develop our products, we may infringe the current patents of third parties or patents that may issue in the future. Third parties could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of the affected product or products. If we become involved in any litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our resources, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. If any of these actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license to continue to manufacture or market the affected product, in which case we may be required to pay substantial royalties or grant cross-licenses to our patents. However, there can be no assurance that any such license will be available on acceptable terms or at all. To enforce patents issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of other parties’ proprietary rights, we may also become involved in litigation or in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, which could result in substantial costs to us, regardless of the outcome of the litigation, or an adverse decision as to the priority of our inventions. Ultimately, as a result of patent infringement claims, our business could be harmed and we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or forced to cease some aspect of our business operations. If we are not able to protect and control unpatented trade secrets, know-how and other technological innovation, we may suffer competitive harm. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, particularly when we do not believe that patent protection is appropriate or available. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We attempt to protect our trade secrets by requiring each of our employees, consultants and advisors to execute a non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreement before beginning his or her employment, consulting or advisory relationship with us. We cannot guarantee that these agreements will provide meaningful protection, that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have an adequate remedy for any such breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or independently developed by a third party. Our trade secrets, or those of our future collaborators, may become known or may be independently discovered by others, which could adversely affect the competitive position of our product candidates. 35 Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock Until our initial public offering in February 2005, there was no public market for our common stock, and the price of our common stock may be volatile and could decline significantly. Until our initial public offering, or IPO, in February 2005, there was no public market for our common stock, and despite our IPO, an active public market for these shares may not be sustained. Our stock price has traded in the range of $7.77- $1.37 from the commencement of our IPO on February 2, 2005 to February 25, 2008. The stock market in general has been experiencing dramatic fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies in general have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. If market-based or industry-based volatility continues, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly, independent of our actual operating performance, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly as a result of several factors, including: · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · announcement of FDA approval or non-approval of Specifid or any other product candidates that we may develop, or delays in the FDA review process; · actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to Specifid and FAV-201, or any other product candidates that we may develop, or our clinical trials, manufacturing process or sales and marketing activities; · regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; · success of our research efforts and clinical trials; · any intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved; · announcements concerning our competitors, or the biotechnology or biopharmaceutical industries in general; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; · sales of large blocks of our common stock; · sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; · changes in accounting principles; and · loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel. Specifically, you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for such shares. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. Concentration of ownership among our existing officers, directors and principal stockholders may prevent other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and depress our stock price. As of February 25, 2008, our officers and directors and stockholders affiliated with our directors together beneficially held approximately 35.2% of our outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis. If some or all of these officers, directors and principal stockholders act together, they will be able to exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, the merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and any other significant corporate transaction. The interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of our other stockholders. For instance, officers, directors and principal stockholders, acting together, could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that we would not otherwise consider. Similarly, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us otherwise favored by our other stockholders. This concentration of ownership also could depress our stock price. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and applicable Delaware law may prevent or discourage third parties or our stockholders from attempting to replace our management or influencing significant decisions. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or our management, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: · dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; · authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; 36 · prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; · prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws except with 66.7% stockholder approval; and · requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders’ meetings. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for five years unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. Together, these charter and statutory provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. Because we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our shares of common stock, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless they sell them. We have never paid or declared any cash dividends on our capital stock and intend to retain any future earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business. The payment of dividends by us on our common stock is limited by our debt agreements. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Unless we pay dividends, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless they sell them. We may incur increased costs as a result of recently enacted and proposed changes in laws and regulations. Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules related to corporate governance and other matters subsequently adopted by the SEC and the Nasdaq Global Market, could result in increased costs to us. The new rules and any related regulations that may be proposed in the future could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 