ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree risk. Before making a decision to invest in shares of our common stock, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this annual report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospectus could be materially adversely affected. If this were to occur, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. 24 Risks Related to Our Business It is anticipated that we will continue to incur losses and negative cash flow from operations for the foreseeable future and may not be able to continue as a going concern. We are still a company with a limited operating history although we have generated minimal revenue. While our new business includes personal healthcare record and storage products that are currently available, we are nevertheless still at an early stage in developing a business model that will enable us to generate significant revenue from the use of our products. Prior to the Merger, MMR financed its operations primarily through private placements of MMR capital stock and from secured loans from The RHL Group, Inc., a wholly-owned affiliate of MMR's founder and Chief Executive Officer, and our current Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Robert H. Lorsch. Although we expect to continue to receive financing from The RHL Group, we have also continued to incur losses from operations and need additional sources of financing to fund our operations until we develop a profitable business. Even with additional funds from The RHL Group, there is no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient revenue and working capital to fund our operations and create a sustainable going concern. As a result, it is expected that we will continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. If we fail to obtain additional financing, we will be unable to fund our operations. We expect that the cash used in our operations will increase for the next several years. As of December 31, 2010, the Company's current liabilities exceeded its current assets by $5.4 million. Furthermore, during the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company incurred losses of $17.9 million, of which $14.4 million was non-cash related. At the current level of borrowing, the Company requires cash of $275,000 per year to service its debt. Furthermore, not including debt service, in order to continue operating its business, the Company uses an average of $278,000 cash per month, or $3.3 million per year. In addition to the above cash burn from operations, the Company will be required to obtain additional financing in order to meet the obligations for installment payments of $621,000 under the Creditor Plan and our obligations under the subordinated secured indebtedness to The RHL Group (which note payable had a balance of $1,214,345 at December 31, 2010), among other debt obligations. Such obligations are currently due and payable pursuant to the terms of the note. At this rate of cash burn, over the next twelve months, our existing current assets will sustain our business for approximately five months. Although we generate some cash from our operations, we will need additional financing in order to fund operations until we can become cash flow positive, which is not expected to occur in the foreseeable future. For a description and copy of the Creditor Plan see Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" below and Exhibit 10.5. Other than to meet the Creditor Plan obligations, our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: The pace of market adoption of current and future products; The length of sales cycles and implementation efforts for major corporate accounts; The launch of new products; and The buildup of a sales and service delivery organization. If additional debt financing is raised in the future, we may be required to grant lenders a security interest in all or a portion of our assets and issue warrants to acquire our equity securities, resulting in dilution to our stockholders. In addition, any such debt financing may involve restrictive covenants, including limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire or assign intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Further, our ability to raise funding through the sale of equity securities will be significantly limited by our existing authorized but unissued common stock. Following the Merger, we have a limited amount of available common stock and any changes to our certificate of incorporation to increase our authorized share capital would require a vote of our stockholders, which could be time consuming and costly to obtain. Future additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, then we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of one or more of our products. We have been, and may continue to be, unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund our operations, working capital and capital expenditures, depends on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is subject to our ability to execute on our business plan, and also to general economic, industry, financial, competitive, operating, and other factors that are beyond our control. 25 MMR has a secured credit facility with The RHL Group, with all outstanding amounts due thereunder being guaranteed by us. On August 18, 2009, we entered into a Waiver Agreement with The RHL Group, pursuant to which The RHL Group waived MMR's continuing payment default under the credit facility until August 31, 2009, which waiver period will continue automatically until The RHL Group notifies MMR otherwise. Should The RHL Group notify us that the waiver period has been terminated and, as of that time, we continue to be in payment default under the credit facility, The RHL Group would have the right to call any outstanding debt immediately due and payable, as well as exercise any other rights it has as a secured creditor under the credit facility and applicable law. As of December 31, 2010, the aggregate principal amount owed under The RHL Group credit facility was approximately $1,214,345. As of December 31, 2010, we owed an aggregate of approximately $1,254,681 in principal amount to certain of our former employees and creditors, as evidenced by promissory notes issued to the same in connection with the Merger. We are obligated to make 18 monthly payments to such employees and creditors beginning August 2, 2009. We have not yet made any of the payments due and payable to such employees and creditors, and thus they are entitled to exercise such rights as may be available to them under applicable law. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay amounts due on our existing indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Thus, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing will depend on, among other things: Our financial condition at the time; Restrictions in our outstanding debt instruments; and Other factors, including the condition of the financial markets. As a result, we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and additional borrowings or refinancings or other proceeds are not available to us, we may not have sufficient cash to enable us to meet all of our obligations, thereby potentially rendering us insolvent. The level of our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. We have significant debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2010, the aggregate principal amount owed under all of our outstanding debt was approximately $2.1 million. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: Increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash to fund working capital and capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes; Restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, acquiring new content or exploring other business opportunities; Limit our ability to obtain financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate purposes or acquisitions; Place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry. We are a company with limited operating history and currently have only a small management team and staff, which could limit our ability to effectively seize market opportunities and grow our business. Our operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in a growing business enterprise, including the likelihood of operating losses. As a smaller company with a limited operating history, our success will depend, among other factors, upon how we manage the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with the growth of a new business, products and channels of distribution, and current and future development, as well as in the competitive emerging healthcare records management business. In addition, as a company with a limited operating history we have only a small management team and staff to grow our business and manage the risks inherent in a growing business enterprise. These factors could limit our ability to effectively seize market opportunities and grow our business. Any significant limitation or failure of our technology systems that are critical to our operations could constrain our operations. We are highly dependent upon the use of third-party technology systems to operate our business. Any failures in these systems could disrupt our business and subject us to losses. Moreover, although we have in place certain disaster recovery plans and backup servers, we may experience system delays and interruptions as a result of natural disasters, power failures, acts of war, and third-party failures. Potential system failures and the cost necessary to address them could result in material financial loss or costs, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal claims and liability, which in turn could negatively impact our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 26 We may not be able to continue to maximize our legacy biotechnology assets or protect our proprietary rights, which may hurt our competitive position and future revenues. We will only be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that these rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets and are otherwise protectable under applicable law. We will attempt to protect our proprietary position by filing and maintaining U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary products, technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. The patent positions of biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Thus, any patents that we own or license from third parties for future products may not provide any protection against competitors. Pending patent applications we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued. Also, patent rights may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology that we have developed or we will develop. The laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to patents for future and current products, we own a substantial portfolio of assets acquired from Favrille, including data, samples, and other intellectual property rights. We currently seek protection for these assets, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for proprietary technology in the event of unauthorized use, transfer or disclosure of confidential and proprietary information. The parties may not comply with or may breach these agreements. Furthermore, our trade secrets may otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by, competitors. Our success will further depend, in part, on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. If our activities infringe on patents owned by others, we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves in suits brought against a licensor or us. Should our products or technologies be found to infringe on patents issued to third parties, the manufacture, use and sale of our products could be enjoined, and we could be required to pay substantial damages. In addition, we, in connection with the development and use of our products and technologies, may be required to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights of third parties, which may not be made available on terms acceptable to us. We are highly dependent on our Chief Executive Officer and the loss of him could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further, we may not be able to attract qualified officers to replace him or other key management personnel necessary to grow our business. We are highly reliant on the services of our Chief Executive Officer, Robert H. Lorsch. If Mr. Lorsch left, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further, we must continue to hire experienced managers to continue to grow our business. As a company with limited operating history, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining new individuals. If we are not successful in attracting management, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our management will continue to be required to devote substantial time to comply with public company regulations. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the SEC, imposes various requirements on public companies, even those that are not listed. In light of the Merger and change in our management and business, our new management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these requirements, but do not have recent experience with these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting when required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting and related expense and expend significant management efforts. We will need to hire additional accounting and financial staff to satisfy the ongoing requirements of Section 404. In addition to maintaining the remediations we have made in correcting our previously reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we need to bring our financial reporting procedures up to public-company standards so as to allow management to report on, and, when required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our independent registered public accountants to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we will need to incur additional expenses and diversion of management's time in this area. We will be required to incur significant costs in documenting, evaluating, testing and remediating our internal control procedures and systems, including the ongoing engagement of our external consultants or additional financial and accounting personnel. Such actions, while necessary and beneficial, will adversely affect our financial results. 27 We face substantial competition. While we believe that our MyMedicalRecords products occupies a unique niche in the marketplace, other companies offer similar services that compete for subscriber enrollment and healthcare professionals from the same patient and physician population, and could compete more directly with us by developing processes and technology functionally similar to those that form our MyMedicalRecords products. MMRPro competes with scanning services that market their services to doctors seeking to convert their historical paper records into electronic files, as well as Electronic Medical Record systems. MMRPro also competes with EMR systems that offer doctors the opportunity to make their entire office paperless. Most of these competitors are larger, more deeply funded companies. To the extent they have more success in obtaining market share and customer acceptance of their products, it could have a negative effect on our ability to grow our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our growth will depend on our ability to develop our brand and any failure to do so could limit our business prospects, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We believe that establishing a strong brand will be critical to achieving widespread acceptance and adoption of our products and services. Promoting and positioning our brand will depend largely on the success of our marketing efforts, distribution channels and ability to provide high quality service. Establishing a significant brand presence for an on-line company often requires substantial marketing investment, and many "dot.com" companies have failed to generate the necessary adoption rates even after such a process. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses we incur in building the MyMedicalRecords brand. If we are not successful in building the MyMedicalRecords brand, it could limit our business prospects, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The handling of medical records is highly regulated. Not only could we be subject to substantial liability for mishandling records if we fail to comply with applicable requirements or if third-parties gain unauthorized access to records or servers but our products may need constant revisions or modifications to comply with an increasingly complex regulatory regime. The proper handling of health information, what is included in a patient's medical records is subject to extensive state and federal regulations and legal requirements, and we anticipate incurring significant costs to keep informed of and in compliance with such regulations and requirements. The volume and complexity of the regulations is daunting and many have changed substantially in recent years and all are subject to the uncertainties of interpretation. We recognize the critical nature of managing an individual's health information requires that our products and advances be implemented with the utmost care to protect the privacy and confidentiality of our customers' data. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, commonly referred to as HIPAA, requires covered entities to protect the privacy and confidentiality of the protected health information, or PHI, of their patients and customers. Although we are not a covered entity (as that term is defined in HIPAA), we consider it important to take into account the Privacy and Security Standards and other requirements of HIPAA when implementing our products and services and believe that we meet and/or exceed current HIPAA standards. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, commonly referred to as HITECH, enacted on February 17, 2009 as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, expanded HIPAA's reach beyond that of just covered entities. Now, business associates, defined as an entity that performs a function, activity, or service on behalf of a covered entity and that requires use or access to the PHI of the covered entity, and vendors of Personal Health Records that use or access PHI, must also comply with the HIPAA's Security Standards and many of HIPAA's Privacy Standards. One of the key obligations under HITECH is the requirement to notify individuals when there has been (or there is a strong possibility of) a breach of the individual's PHI. Further, our products and services may become subject to greater regulation, particularly at the federal level. We may have to reduce, enhance or remove certain offerings to comply with new regulatory standards. If we are not able to effectively modify our product and service offerings to adapt to stricter standards, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business and our results of operations and financial condition. 28 Because of the types of agreements that we enter into with our customers for our products, there is a significant time lag between the date of the agreement or license and product launch and revenue generation, which may be significant. In the ordinary course of our business, we enter into agreements with certain customers that typically provide for customization of our product. The degree of customization can vary from simple modifications required to co-brand to highly tailored product modifications, which require significant development efforts on our part. Because these customer arrangements typically do not provide for payment of revenues until product launch, there is often a time lag between the date we enter into an agreement or license with a particular customer and when we begin generating revenues. This time lag can be significant in some cases a year or longer especially when there is a high degree of customization or translation involved requiring extensive product development efforts. Thus, even if we are successful in negotiating agreements and licenses with many customers to co-brand or private label our products for such customers, because of the nature of our arrangements with our customers, there is a risk that it may be some time before we generate revenues from such arrangements, if at all. Third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. The software and Internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition to our biotechnology assets, as we expand our product offerings into areas where larger companies with large patent portfolios compete, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. We could receive claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, including claims regarding patents, copyrights and trademarks. Any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations. If we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. Our executive officers and directors may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, those of our stockholders generally. Our executive officers and directors may have interests that are different from, or are in addition to, those of our stockholders generally. These interests include having subordinated debt with a balance of $1,214,345 at December 31, 2010 secured by a security interest in substantially all of our assets, the provision and continuation of indemnification and insurance arrangements for our directors, as well as certain other interests described elsewhere in this prospectus. Notably, our current President, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Robert H. Lorsch, may be deemed to beneficially control a total of 25.5% of our voting capital stock, as of December 31, 2010, including shares issuable upon exercise of options and warrants held by Mr. Lorsch and The RHL Group. Because of his high percentage of beneficial ownership, Mr. Lorsch may be able to control matters requiring the vote of stockholders, including the election of our board of directors and certain other significant corporate actions. This control could delay, defer or prevent others from initiating a potential merger, takeover or other change in our control, even if these actions would benefit our other stockholders and us. This control could adversely affect the voting and other rights of our stockholders and could depress the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price is expected to continue to be volatile, and the market price of our common stock may drop further. The market price of our common stock could continue to be subject to significant fluctuations. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our operating results, financial condition, profitability and/or reputation. We do not expect to pay cash dividends, and accordingly, stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment. We anticipate that we will retain our earnings, if any, for future growth and therefore do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the future. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to stockholders. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. 29 Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and applicable Delaware law may prevent or discourage third parties or our stockholders from attempting to replace our management or influencing significant decisions. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: Dividing our Board of Directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; Authorizing our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; Prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; Prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; Limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; Prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws except with 66.7% stockholder approval; and Requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders' meetings. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years unless the holder's acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our Board of Directors. Together, these charter and statutory provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. There is currently a limited trading market for our common stock, which may limit our stockholders' ability to sell shares of our stock. Our common stock is currently quoted on the over-the-counter bulletin board, or OTC:BB. Because of the limited trading volume on the OTC:BB of our common stock and the penny stock regulations described below, our investors may not be able to sell their shares due to the absence of a trading market. We may be subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions, which could make it difficult for stockholders to sell their shares of our stock. SEC regulations generally define "penny stocks" as equity securities that have a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. If we do not fall within any exemptions from the "penny stock" definition, we will be subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which regulations are commonly referred to as the "Penny Stock Rules." The Penny Stock Rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers prior to selling penny stocks, which may make it burdensome to conduct transactions in our shares. If our shares are subject to the Penny Stock Rules, it may be difficult to sell shares of our stock, and because it may be difficult to find quotations for shares of our stock, it may be impossible to accurately price an investment in our shares. In addition to the Penny Stock Rules, we are unable to utilize the safe harbor provisions of the Forward Looking Statements sections of the Exchange Act. There can be no assurance that our common stock will qualify for an exemption from the Penny Stock Rules, or that if an exemption currently exists, that we will continue to qualify for such exemption. In any event, we are subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of a penny stock if the SEC determines that such a restriction would be in the public interest. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, sales practice requirements may also limit a stockholder's ability to buy and sell our stock. In addition to the Penny Stock Rules described above, FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low-priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer's financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares. 30 A significant amount of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock are restricted securities and may not be freely resold to the public. When the restriction on any or all of these shares is lifted, and the shares are sold in the open market, the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. A significant amount of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock are "restricted securities" as defined under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and may only be sold pursuant to an effective registration statement or an exemption from registration, if available. Although Rule 144 may not be immediately available to permit resales of such shares, once available, and given the number of shares that would no longer be restricted, sales of shares by our shareholders, whether pursuant to Rule 144 or otherwise, could have an immediate negative effect upon the price of our common stock. When we issue additional shares in the future, it will likely result in the dilution of our existing stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 650,000,000 shares of common stock with a $0.001 par value and 5,000,000 preferred shares with a par value of $0.001. As of December 31, 2010, 238,893,492 common shares were issued and outstanding and no shares of preferred stock were issued and outstanding. If we issue any additional shares, such issuance will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all current stockholders. Further, such issuance may result in a change of control of our corporation. Moreover, in the past, we issued warrants and options to acquire shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2010, we had warrants, options and convertible notes to purchase an aggregate of 88,641,726 shares of our common stock. In addition, the issuance of any shares for acquisition, licensing or financing efforts, upon conversion of any preferred stock or exercise of warrants and options, pursuant to our equity compensation plans, or otherwise may result in a reduction of the book value and market price of the outstanding shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable to Smaller Reporting Companies. 