Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Since our consolidated financial statements reflect fresh-start accounting adjustments, our future financial statements will not be comparable in many respects to our financial information from prior periods. On April 7, 2009, we filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. Our Plan became effective on March 15, 2010. In connection with our emergence from the Chapter 11 reorganization proceedings, we implemented fresh-start accounting in accordance with ASC 852, as of February 28, 2010, which had a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. Thus, our future consolidated financial statements will not be comparable in many respects to our consolidated financial statements for periods prior to our adoption of fresh-start accounting and prior to accounting for the effects of the reorganization proceedings. Our past financial difficulties and bankruptcy filing may have harmed, and may continue to have a negative effect on, our relationships with investors, customers and suppliers. We have substantial liquidity needs and may be required to seek additional financing. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents on hand, cash provided by operations, and cash provided by our revolving credit facility with Wells Fargo Capital Finance, LLC. On July 20, 2011, Aventine and each of its subsidiaries, as co-borrowers (collectively, the “Borrowers”), entered into a revolving credit facility (the “New Revolving Facility”) with the lenders party thereto (the “Lenders”) and Wells Fargo Capital Finance LLC, as Lender and as agent for the Lenders (in such capacity “Wells Fargo”) (as amended, and as may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the “New Revolving Facility Agreement”), with a $50.0 million commitment. The New Revolving Facility has a borrowing base that is principally supported by accounts receivable and inventory. As of February 28, 2012, the Company had letters of credit outstanding of $9.2 million between the Company and its subsidiaries, as holders, and Wells Fargo, as issuer. Our liquidity position is significantly influenced by our operating results, which in turn are substantially dependent on commodity prices, especially prices for corn, ethanol, natural gas, and unleaded gasoline. As a result, adverse commodity price movements adversely impact our liquidity. We cannot assure you that the amounts of cash available from operations, together with the New Revolving Facility, will be sufficient to fund our operations. Our ability to maintain adequate liquidity depends in part upon industry conditions and general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, and other factors beyond our control. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to the success of our efforts. In the event that cash flows and borrowings under the New Revolving Facility are not sufficient to meet our cash requirements, we may be required to seek additional financing. We can provide no assurance that additional financing would be available or, if available, offered to us on acceptable terms. We have significant indebtedness under a term loan facility. Our term loan facility and the New Revolving Facility have substantial restrictions and affirmative covenants and we may have difficulty obtaining additional credit, which could adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2011, we had an aggregate of approximately $216.3 million in debt outstanding due primarily to a $225 million term loan facility (as amended, and as may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the “Term Loan Facility”) with Citibank N.A., as administrative and collateral agent (the “Term Loan Agreement”). In addition, we had availability under the New Revolving Facility of approximately $20.1 million as of December 31, 2011. As a result of our indebtedness, we will use a portion of our cash flow to pay interest and principal when due, which will reduce the cash available to 15 Table of Contents finance our operations and other business activities and could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Our indebtedness under the Term Loan Facility and the New Revolving Facility restricts our ability to engage in certain activities. These restrictions limit our ability, subject to certain exceptions, to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness and issue stock; · make prepayments on or purchase indebtedness in whole or in part; · pay dividends and other distributions with respect to our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or make other restricted payments; · make investments; · enter into transactions with affiliates; · create or incur liens to secure debt; · consolidate or merge with another entity, or allow one of our subsidiaries to do so; · lease, transfer or sell assets and use proceeds of permitted asset leases, transfers or sales; · incur dividend or other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; · make capital expenditures beyond specified limits; · engage in specified business activities; and · acquire facilities or other businesses. We also are required to comply with certain affirmative covenants. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants could result in an event of default, which, if it continues beyond any applicable cure periods, could cause all of our existing indebtedness to be immediately due and payable. We depend on the New Revolving Facility for future working capital needs. If there is an event of default by us under the New Revolving Facility that continues beyond any applicable cure period, we may be unable to borrow to fund our operations. We may be unable to secure additional financing. Our ability to arrange, in addition to the New Revolving Facility and the Term Loan Facility, financing (including any extension or refinancing) and the cost of additional financing are dependent upon numerous factors. Access to capital (including any extension or refinancing) for participants in the biofuels industry, including us, has been significantly restricted and may, as a result of our voluntary petition for relief under the Bankruptcy Code in April 2009 and recent emergence from the reorganization proceedings on March 15, 2010, be further restricted in the future. Other factors affecting our access to financing include: · general economic and capital market conditions; · conditions in biofuels markets; · regulatory developments; · credit availability from banks or other lenders for us and our industry peers, as well as the economy in general; · investor confidence in the biofuels industry and in us; · the continued reliable operation of our ethanol production facilities; and · provisions of tax and securities laws that are conducive to raising capital. 16 Table of Contents We may not be able to generate enough cash flow to meet our debt obligations. We expect our earnings and cash flow to vary significantly from year to year due to the cyclical nature of our industry. As a result, the amount of debt we can manage in some periods may not be appropriate for us in other periods. Additionally, our future cash flow may be insufficient to meet our debt obligations and commitments. Any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. A range of economic, competitive, business and industry factors will affect our future financial performance, and, as a result, our ability to generate cash flow from operations, and to pay our debt. Many of these factors, such as ethanol prices, corn prices, economic, and financial conditions in our industry and the global economy or competitive initiatives of our competitors, are beyond our control. If we do not generate enough cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or raising additional capital. We cannot assure you, however, that undertaking alternative financing plans, if necessary, would allow us to meet our debt obligations. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to obtain alternative financing, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our floating rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under the New Revolving Facility and the Term Loan Facility bear interest at floating rates and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash available for servicing our indebtedness would decrease. Our business is dependent upon the availability and price of corn. Significant disruptions in the supply of corn will materially affect our operating results. In addition, since we generally cannot pass on increases in corn prices to our customers, continued periods of historically high corn prices will also materially adversely affect our operating results. The principal raw material we use to produce ethanol and ethanol by-products is corn. In 2011, we purchased approximately 93.2 million bushels of corn, which comprised about 74.9% of our total cost of production. We believe a systemic shift has occurred in the marketplace for corn, and the price of corn will remain significantly higher than the historical averages. Changes in the price of corn have had an impact on our business. In general, higher corn prices produce lower profit margins and, therefore, represent unfavorable market conditions. This is especially true when market conditions do not allow us to pass along increased corn costs to our customers. At certain levels, corn prices may make ethanol uneconomical to use in markets and volumes above the requirements set forth in the RFS program or for which ethanol is used as an oxygenate in order to meet federal and state fuel emission standards. The price of corn is influenced by general economic, market, and regulatory factors. These factors include weather conditions, farmer planting decisions, government policies, and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade and global demand and supply. The significance and relative impact of these factors on the price of corn is difficult to predict. Factors such as severe weather or crop disease could have an adverse impact on our business because we may be unable to pass on higher corn costs to our customers. Any event that tends to negatively impact the supply of corn will tend to increase prices and potentially harm our business. The increasing ethanol capacity could boost demand for corn and result in 17 Table of Contents increased prices for corn. We expect the price of corn to continue to remain at levels that would be considered as high when compared to historical periods. The market for natural gas is subject to market conditions that create uncertainty in the price and availability of the natural gas that we utilize in our manufacturing process. We rely upon third parties for our supply of natural gas which is consumed in the production of ethanol, including at our natural gas-fired corn dry mill plant in Pekin, Illinois and our natural gas-fired corn dry mill plants in Mt. Vernon, Indiana and Aurora, Nebraska. The prices for and availability of natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by factors beyond our control such as weather conditions, overall economic conditions and foreign and domestic governmental regulation and relations. Significant disruptions in the supply of natural gas could temporarily impair our ability to produce ethanol for our customers. Further, increases in natural gas prices or changes in our natural gas costs relative to natural gas costs paid by competitors may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The price fluctuation in natural gas prices over the ten year period from 2002 through December 31, 2011, based on the New York Mercantile Exchange, (“NYMEX”), daily futures data, has ranged from a low of $2.32 per MMBtu in January 2002 to a high of $13.42 per MMBtu in October 2005. We currently use approximately 5.6 million MMBtu’s of natural gas annually, depending upon business conditions, in the manufacture of our products. Our usage of natural gas will increase with the start-up of our Aurora West and Canton facilities. Fixed price and gasoline related contracts for ethanol may be at a price level lower than the prevailing price. At any given time, contract prices for ethanol may be at a price level different from the current prevailing price, and such a difference could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2011, we had fixed-priced contracts to sell 3.9 million gallons of ethanol. We may engage in hedging or derivative transactions which involve risks that can harm our business. In an attempt to minimize the effects of the volatility of the price of corn, natural gas, electricity and ethanol (‘‘commodities’’), we may take economic hedging positions in the commodities. Economic hedging arrangements also expose us to the risk of financial loss in situations where the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract or there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price of the commodities. Although we attempt to link our economic hedging activities to sales plans and pricing activities, occasionally such hedging activities can themselves result in losses. As a result, our results of operations may be adversely affected during periods in which corn and/or natural gas prices increase. Our hedging or derivative transactions may be adversely affected by the Dodd-Frank Act. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which, among other things, aims to improve transparency and accountability in derivative markets. While the Dodd-Frank Act increases the regulatory authority of the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) regarding over-the-counter derivatives, there is uncertainty on several issues related to market clearing, definitions of market participants, reporting, and capital requirements, and many details remain to be addressed in CFTC rulemaking proceedings. In the third quarter of 2011 the CFTC extended temporary exemptive relief from certain swap regulation provisions of the legislation until no later than July 16, 2012. In its rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC has issued final regulations establishing speculative position limits relating to certain U.S. exchange-listed physical commodity futures contracts, as well as to swaps that reference the specified contracts and contracts settling against the specified contracts that are executed on, or pursuant to, rules of a 18 Table of Contents foreign board of trade providing direct access to U.S persons. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or derivative instruments would be exempt from these position limits. It is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will make these regulations effective. At this time we are unable to predict what effect, if any, these provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will have on our results of operations or financial condition. Changes in ethanol prices can affect the value of our inventory which may significantly affect our profitability. Our inventory is valued based upon a weighted average of our cost to produce ethanol and the price we pay for ethanol that we purchase from other producers. Due to the dissolution of the marketing alliance in early 2009, we no longer make purchases of ethanol from alliance partners but continue to engage in purchase/resale transactions, as needed, to fulfill our sales commitments. Changes, either upward or downward, in our purchased cost of ethanol or our own production costs, will cause the inventory value to fluctuate from period to period, perhaps significantly. These changes in value flow through our statement of operations as the inventory is sold and can significantly increase or decrease our profitability. The relationship between the sales price of our by-products and the price we pay for corn can fluctuate significantly which may affect our results of operations and profitability. We sell co-products and bio-products that are remnants of the ethanol production process in order to offset our corn costs and increase profitability. Historically, sales prices for these co-products have tracked along with the price of corn. However, there have been occasions when the value of these co-products and bio-products has lagged behind increases in corn prices. As a result, we may occasionally generate less revenue from the sale of these co-products and bio-products relative to the price of corn. In addition, several of our co-products compete with similar products made from other plant feedstock. The cost of these other feedstocks may not rise as corn prices increase. Consequently, the price we may receive for these products may not rise as corn prices rise, thereby lowering our cost recovery percentage relative to corn. Fluctuations in the demand for gasoline may reduce demand for ethanol. Ethanol is marketed as an oxygenate to reduce vehicle emissions from gasoline, as an octane enhancer to improve the octane rating of gasoline with which it is blended, and as a fuel extender. As a result, ethanol demand has historically been influenced by the supply of and demand for gasoline. If gasoline demand decreases, our ability to sell our product and our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. If the expected increase in ethanol demand does not occur, or if the demand for ethanol otherwise decreases, the excess capacity in our industry may increase further. According to the RFA, domestic ethanol capacity, including capacity under construction, has increased significantly from approximately 1.8 billion gallons per year at January 1999 to 14.9 billion gallons per year at January 2012. Demand for ethanol in 2011 decreased 3.1% from 2010, and increased 22% over 2009, 37% over 2008, and 93% over 2007 through increased penetration into new markets and a government mandate; however the production capacity of U.S. ethanol producers continues to exceed demand. For the first ten months of 2011, the production capacity of U.S. ethanol producers exceeded the demand by approximately 7.5%. If additional demand for ethanol is not created, either through discretionary blending, exports, or an increase in the blending percentage allowed by the EPA, the excess supply may cause additional plants to shutter production or cause ethanol prices to decrease further, perhaps substantially. Consumer resistance to the use of ethanol may affect the demand for ethanol, which could affect our ability to market our product. 19 Table of Contents Media reports in the mainstream press indicate that some consumers believe the use of ethanol will have a negative impact on retail gasoline prices or is the reason for increases in food prices. Many also believe that ethanol adds to air pollution and harms car and truck engines. Still other consumers believe that the process of producing ethanol actually uses more fossil energy, such as oil and natural gas, than the amount of energy produced by ethanol. These consumer beliefs could be wide-spread in the future. If consumers choose not to buy ethanol blended fuels, it would affect the demand for the ethanol we produce which could lower demand for our product and negatively affect our profitability. Research is currently underway to develop production of biobutanol and similar products that could directly compete with ethanol and may have potential advantages over ethanol. Biobutanol, an advanced biofuel produced from agricultural feedstock, is currently being developed by various parties, including a partnership between BP p.l.c. (“BP”) and E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company (“DuPont”). According to the partnership, biobutanol has many advantages over ethanol. Similar developments are also being undertaken with respect to isobutanol. The advantages include: low vapor pressure, making it more easily added to gasoline; energy content closer to that of gasoline, such that the decrease in fuel economy caused by the blending of biobutanol or isobutanol with gasoline is less than that of other biofuels when blended with gasoline; they can be blended at higher concentrations than other biofuels for use in standard vehicles; they are less susceptible to separation when water is present than in pure ethanol gasoline blends; and they are expected to be potentially suitable for transportation in gas pipelines, resulting in a possible cost advantage over ethanol producers relying on rail transportation. Although BP and DuPont have not announced a timeline for producing biobutanol on a large scale, if biobutanol or isobutanol production comes online in the U.S., they could have a competitive advantage over ethanol and could make it more difficult to market our ethanol, which could reduce our ability to generate revenue and profits. We sell ethanol primarily to the major oil companies and traders and therefore we can from time to time be subject to a high degree of concentration of our sales and accounts receivable. We sell ethanol to most of the major integrated oil companies and a significant number of large, independent refiners and petroleum wholesalers. Our trade receivables result primarily from our ethanol marketing operations. As a general policy, collateral is not required for receivables, but customers’ financial condition and creditworthiness are evaluated regularly. Credit risk concentration related to our accounts receivable results from our top ten customers having generated 65.7%, 61.7% and 54.7% of our consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, two customers represented more than 10% of Aventine’s consolidated net sales. If we would suddenly lose a major customer and not be able to replace the demand for our product very quickly, it could have a material impact on our sales and profitability. We are substantially dependent on our operational facilities and any operational disruption could result in a reduction of our sales volumes and could cause us to incur substantial expenditures. As of December 31, 2011, the substantial majority of our income was derived from the sale of ethanol and the related by-products that we produced at our facilities. Our operations may be subject to significant interruption if any of our facilities experiences a major accident or is damaged by severe weather or other natural disaster. In addition, our operations may be subject to labor disruptions and unscheduled downtime, or other hazards inherent in our industry. Some of those hazards may cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution and environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, and repairs to resume operations and may result in suspension or termination of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. As protection against these hazards, we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance which we believe is in accordance with customary industry practices, but we cannot provide any assurance that this insurance 20 Table of Contents will be adequate to fully cover the potential hazards described above or that we will be able to renew this insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Risks associated with the operation of our production facilities may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our revenue is dependent on the continued operation of our various production facilities. The operation of production plants involves many risks including: · the breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment or processes; · inclement weather and natural disasters; · the need to comply with directives of, and obtain and maintain all necessary permits from, governmental agencies; · raw material supply disruptions; · labor force shortages, work stoppages, or other labor difficulties; and · transportation disruptions. The occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to the above events, may have an adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular facility, or to us as a whole. We may encounter unanticipated difficulties in operating our recently constructed plants, which could reduce sales and cause us to incur substantial losses. The Delta-T technology to be utilized at our recently constructed plants is currently in use only in a small number of ethanol plants, mostly with smaller capacities than ours. We are aware of certain plant design issues that may impede the reliable operation of the plants and continuous operations. We are in the process of addressing these issues but we have no assurance that our initiatives will be successful or can be implemented in a timely fashion or without an extended period of interruption to operations. Growth in the sale and distribution of ethanol is dependent on the changes in and expansion of related infrastructure, which may not occur on a timely basis, if at all, and our operations could be adversely affected by infrastructure disruptions. Substantial development of infrastructure by persons and entities outside our control are required for our operations and the ethanol industry generally to grow. Areas requiring expansion include, but are not limited to, additional rail capacity, additional storage facilities for ethanol, increases in truck fleets capable of transporting ethanol within localized markets, expansion of refining and blending facilities to handle ethanol, growth in service stations equipped to handle ethanol fuels, and growth in the fleet of flexible fuel vehicles. Substantial investments required for these infrastructure changes and expansions may not be made or they may not be made on a timely basis. Any delay or failure in making the changes in or expansion of infrastructure could hurt the demand or prices for our products, impede our delivery of products, impose additional costs on us or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business is dependent on the continuing availability of infrastructure and any infrastructure disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are contractually obligated to complete certain capacity expansions in Aurora, Nebraska. If we fail to complete them in a timely manner, we may be subject to material penalties. On or about March 23, 2010, in accordance with the terms of a stipulation filed with the Bankruptcy Court, we paid approximately $2.1 million to the Aurora Co-operative, representing penalties of (i) approximately $0.8 million, arising under a Master Development Agreement with the Aurora Co-operative 21 Table of Contents for failure to complete construction of the Aurora West facility, for the period of July 1, 2009 through and including December 31, 2009, and (ii) approximately $1.3 million in the event that we had not completed the Aurora West facility by September 30, 2010 for each month starting from January 1, 2010 through and including September 30, 2010. Beginning on October 1, 2010, we have been subjected to additional penalties of $138,889 per month, and will remain subject to these penalties until the plant (although constructed) is operational or total penalties equaling $5.0 million have been paid by us, whichever comes first. The Aurora West facility was substantially completed by the end of the fourth quarter of 2010; we have delayed start up to date of the plant, but expect the Aurora West facility to become operational in 2012, subject to weather conditions, commodity prices and the availability of working capital. The Aurora Co-operative has informed our company that it believes it has the right pursuant to an agreement between our company and the Aurora Co-operative, dated March 23, 2010, to acquire the land on which the Aurora Facility is located for a purchase price of $16,500 per acre. It is the Aurora Co-operative’s belief that this option arises on July 31, 2012, provided in its opinion that that the Aurora Facility is not operational at certain production levels for thirty consecutive business days. We do not agree with the positions asserted by the Aurora Co-operative with respect to the scope and/or availability of this real estate purchase option. Our company intends to diligently to pursue completion of the plant as provided under the March 26, 2010 agreement and vigorously defend against any assertion that the Aurora Co-operative has any right to repurchase the land or any improvements on the land. However, there is no certainty that this disagreement will not result in litigation or that a decision adverse to our interest will not be rendered by a court with respect to this matter that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive industry with low barriers to entry. In the U.S., we compete with other corn processors and refiners, including Archer Daniels Midland Company, Green Plains Renewable Energy Inc., Valero Energy Corporation, Biofuels Energy Corporation, Hawkeye Holdings, Inc., Pacific Ethanol Inc., Cargill, Incorporated and A.E. Staley Manufacturing Company, a subsidiary of Tate & Lyle plc. Some of our competitors are divisions of larger enterprises and have greater financial resources than we do. Certain of our competitors have significantly larger market shares than we have, and tend to be price leaders in the industry. If any of these competitors were to significantly reduce their prices, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Although many of our competitors are larger than we are, we also have smaller competitors. Farm cooperatives comprised of groups of individual farmers have been able to compete successfully. As of December 2011, the top ten domestic producers accounted for approximately 49.0% of all production. If our competitors consolidate or otherwise grow and/or we are unable to similarly increase our size and scope, our business and prospects may be significantly and adversely affected. Our competitors also include plants owned by farmers who earn their livelihood through the sale of corn, and hence may not be as focused on obtaining optimal value for their produced ethanol as we are and would potentially be more willing to sell their ethanol at a lower price than us. Other countries can import ethanol into the U.S. duty free, which may undermine the ethanol industry in the U.S. Imported ethanol was generally subject to a $0.54 per gallon tariff and a 2.5% ad valorem tax that was designed to offset the $0.45 per gallon ethanol subsidy formerly available under the federal excise tax incentive program for refineries and blenders that mix ethanol with their gasoline. These tariffs and subsidies expired on December 31, 2011. With the expiration of the tariff, other countries, such as Brazil, may be more competitive in the U.S. ethanol market. 22 Table of Contents The use and demand for ethanol and its supply are highly dependent on various federal and state legislation and regulation, and any changes in legislation or regulation could cause the demand for ethanol to decline or its supply to increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Various federal and state laws, regulations and programs have led to increased use of ethanol in fuel. For example, certain laws, regulations and programs provide economic incentives to ethanol producers and users. Among these regulations are (1) the RFS, which requires an increasing amount of renewable fuels to be used in the U.S. each year, (2) the VEETC, which provided a tax credit of $0.45 per gallon on 10% ethanol blends that expired in 2011, (3) the small ethanol producer tax credit, for which we do not qualify because of the size of our ethanol plants, and (4) the federal “farm bill,” which establishes federal subsidies for agricultural commodities including corn, our primary feedstock. These laws, regulations, and programs are regularly changing, and sections of the RFS currently are the subject of legal challenges in federal court. Federal and state legislators and environmental regulators could adopt or modify laws, regulations, or programs that could affect adversely the use of ethanol. For example, California’s Low Carbon Fuel Standard Program makes it difficult for corn-based ethanol produced in many Midwestern states to be used as a fuel in California. A federal district court recently held that the program is unlawful and issued an order suspending it. California has appealed the decision, however, and the courts could reverse the decision and lift the stay. In addition, some state legislators oppose the mandatory use of ethanol because their states must transport it from other corn-producing states, which could significantly increase gasoline prices in the state. Legislation is now pending before certain state legislatures, which, if enacted, would repeal the state’s renewable fuel requirement and potentially decrease demand for ethanol in the state. The RFS2, issued on February 3, 2010, by the EPA, may require producers to include alternative technologies in plants under construction, which may increase the cost to complete our Canton facility or acquire new facilities. The EPA’s RFS2 includes requirements that the lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions of a qualifying renewable fuel must be less than the lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions of the 2005 baseline average gasoline or diesel fuel that it replaces. The lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions threshold for renewable fuel (e.g., ethanol) is 20%. Fuels from existing capacity of current facilities and from facilities that commenced construction prior to December 19, 2007, are exempt or grandfathered from the 20% lifecycle requirement under certain circumstances. The EPA issued a Direct Final Rule that, among other things, requires all plants that commenced construction prior to the enactment of the EISA to complete construction by December 19, 2010. Plants not exempt or grandfathered must include advanced efficient technologies as defined by the regulations in order to meet the RFS2 requirements. As a result, the Canton facility or other facilities we may construct or acquire may not be exempt from the 20% lifecycle requirement and could require inclusion of advanced efficient technologies, which could require substantial capital. Various studies have criticized the efficiency of ethanol, which could lead to the reduction or repeal of measures that promote the use and domestic production of ethanol. Although many trade groups, academics, and governmental agencies have supported ethanol as a fuel additive that promotes a cleaner environment, others have criticized ethanol production as consuming considerably more energy and emitting more greenhouse gases than other biofuels. In particular, two February 2008 studies concluded the current production of corn-based ethanol results in more greenhouse gas emissions than conventional fuels if both direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, including those resulting from land use changes resulting from planting crops for ethanol feedstocks, are taken into account. Other studies have suggested that corn-based ethanol is less efficient than ethanol produced from switch grass or wheat grain. If these views gain acceptance, support for existing measures promoting use and domestic production of corn-based ethanol could decline leading to reduction or repeal of these measures. 23 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permit conditions (and interpretations thereof), including, among other things, those relating to the discharge of hazardous and other waste materials into the air, water, and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and/or disposal of hazardous materials, and the health and safety of our employees. Compliance with these laws, regulations, and permits requires us to incur significant capital and other costs, including costs to obtain and maintain expensive pollution control equipment. These regulations may also require us to make operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. A violation of these laws, regulations, or permit conditions can result in substantial administrative and civil fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, imposition of clean-up and site restoration costs and liens, suspension or revocation of necessary permits, licenses and authorizations and/or the issuance of orders enjoining or limiting our current or future operations. In addition, environmental laws and regulations (and interpretations thereof) change over time, and any such changes, more vigorous enforcement policies or the discovery of currently unknown conditions may require substantial additional environmental expenditures. We are also subject to potential liability for the investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination at each of the properties that we presently own or operate (or properties we formerly owned or operated) and at off-site locations where we arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes. For instance, over ten years ago, soil and groundwater contamination from fuel oil contamination at a storage site was identified at our Illinois facility. The fuel oil tanks were removed and a portion of the area has been capped, but no remediation has been performed. If any of these sites are subject to investigation and/or remediation requirements, we may incur strict and/or joint and several liability under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (or analogous state laws) or other environmental laws which impose strict liability for all or part of the costs of such investigation, remediation, or removal costs and for damages to natural resources whether the contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were or were not in compliance with applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. We may also be subject to related claims by private parties alleging property damage or personal injury due to exposure to hazardous or other materials at or from such properties or other impacts of our operations. While costs to address contamination or related third-party claims could be significant, based upon currently available information, we are not aware of any material liability relating to contamination or such third party claims. We have not accrued any amounts for environmental matters as of December 31, 2011. The ultimate costs of any liabilities that may be identified or the discovery of additional contaminants could adversely impact our results of operation or financial condition. In addition, the hazards and risks associated with producing and transporting our products (such as fires, natural disasters, explosions, abnormal pressures, and spills) may result in releases of hazardous substances and other waste materials, and may result in claims from governmental authorities or third parties relating to actual or alleged personal injury, property damage, or damages to natural resources. We maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses associated with our operations. Our coverage includes, but is not limited to, physical damage to assets, employer’s liability, comprehensive general liability, automobile liability, and workers’ compensation. We do not carry environmental insurance. We believe that our insurance is adequate for our industry, but losses could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of events which result in significant personal injury or damage to our property, natural resources or third parties that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our air emissions are subject to the federal Clean Air Act, as amended, and similar state laws which generally require us to obtain and maintain air emission permits for our ongoing operations, as well as pre-approval for any expansion or construction of existing facilities or new facilities or modification of 24 Table of Contents certain projects or facilities. Obtaining and maintaining those permits requires us to incur costs, and any future more stringent standards may result in increased costs and may limit or interfere with our operations. In addition, the permits ultimately issued may impose conditions which are more costly to implement than we had anticipated. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to comply with air emissions laws and regulations could subject us to monetary penalties, injunctions, conditions or restrictions on operations and, potentially, criminal enforcement actions. Because other ethanol manufacturers in the U.S. are and will continue to be subject to similar laws and restrictions, we do not currently believe that our costs to comply with current or future air emissions laws and regulations will adversely affect our competitive position among domestic producers. However, because ethanol is produced and traded internationally, these costs could adversely affect us in our efforts to compete with foreign producers not subject to such stringent requirements. Federal and state environmental authorities have been investigating alleged excess VOCS emissions and other air emissions from many U.S. ethanol plants, including our Illinois facilities. The investigation relating to our Illinois wet mill facility is still pending, and we could be required to install additional air pollution control equipment or take other measures to control air pollutant emissions at that facility. If authorities require us to install controls, we would anticipate that costs would be approximately $6.5 million, which would be considerably higher than the approximately $3.4 million we incurred in connection with a similar investigation at our Nebraska facility due to the larger size of the Illinois wet mill facility. As of now, we have not established reserves for possible costs we may incur in connection with this investigation. In addition, if the authorities determine our emissions were in violation of applicable law, we would likely be required to pay fines that could be material. With respect to the investigation of our Nebraska facility, we were required to pay a fine of $40,000. Due to the larger capacity of the Illinois facilities, the fine could possibly be larger. We have made, and expect to continue making, significant capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with increasingly stringent environmental laws, regulations and permits, including compliance with the EPA National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants (“NESHAP”) for industrial, commercial, and institutional boilers and process heaters (also known as “Boiler MACT”), which was issued but subsequently vacated in 2007. The vacated version of the rule required us to implement maximum achievable control technology at our Illinois wet mill facility to reduce hazardous air pollutant emissions from our boilers. The EPA issued a new Boiler MACT rule on March 21, 2011, but on May 18, 2011 it published a notice delaying the effective date of the new rule to allow the agency to reconsider its effect. On December 2, 2011, the EPA released proposed amendments to the new Boiler MACT rule, and the public comment period closed on February 21, 2012. The proposed rule is more stringent than the vacated version depending on boiler sizes, whether the source is new or existing, and it sets work practice standards for various emissions. Significantly, on January 9, 2012, the District Court for the District of Columbia vacated the May 2011 action by the EPA, which delayed the implementation of the new Boiler MACT. The effect of the vacatur is that the revisions to the Boiler MACT became immediately effective. Notwithstanding the vacatur, the EPA issued a “No Action Assurance Letter” to establish that it will exercise its enforcement discretion to not pursue enforcement action for violations of certain notification deadlines in the final Major Source Boiler MACT rule. The EPA intends to issue the final reconsideration rule prior to any of the compliance dates for existing sources. In the absence of a final NESHAP for industrial, commercial, and institutional boilers and process heaters, we are waiting for state authorities to determine what technology will be required at our Illinois wet mill facility and when such technology must be installed. We currently cannot estimate the amount that will be needed to comply with federal or possible state technology requirements regarding air emissions from our boilers. In June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, also known as the Waxman-Markey Bill that, among other things, would have established a 25 Table of Contents cap-and-trade system to regulate greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions and would have required an 80% reduction in GHG emissions from sources within the United States between 2012 and 2050. In 2009, the U.S. Senate also considered a number of comparable measures. One such measure, the Clean Energy Jobs and American Power Act, or the Boxer-Kerry Bill, was reported out of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, but not considered by the full Senate. Although these bills were not enacted by the 111th Congress, the United States Congress is likely to again consider a climate change bill in the future. Moreover, almost half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these “cap and trade” programs work by requiring major sources of emissions to acquire and surrender GHG emission ‘‘allowances’’ corresponding to their annual emissions of GHGs. The number of GHG emission allowances issued each year would decline as necessary to meet overall emission reduction goals. As the number of emission allowances declines each year, the cost or value of allowances is expected to escalate significantly. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of U.S. GHGs could require us to incur increased operating costs, and could have an adverse effect on the revenues we generate from carbon dioxide sales. Depending on the particular program, we could be required to purchase and surrender allowances for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our operations. Although we would not be impacted to a greater degree than other similarly situated companies, a stringent greenhouse gas control program could have an adverse effect on our cost of doing business and could reduce the revenues we generate from carbon dioxide sales. On April 2, 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled, in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA, that the EPA has the authority to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from automobiles as “air pollutant” under the federal Clean Air Act. Thereafter, in December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because, according to the EPA, emissions of such gases contribute to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allowed the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Subsequently, the EPA adopted two sets of related rules, one of which purports to regulate emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of GHGs from certain large stationary sources of emissions such as power plants or industrial facilities. The EPA finalized the motor vehicle rule in April 2010 and it became effective January 2011, although it does not require immediate reductions in GHG emissions. The EPA adopted the stationary source rule (or the “tailoring rule”) in May 2010, and it also became effective January 2011, although it remains subject of several pending lawsuits filed by industry groups. The EPA adopted the stationary source rule (or the “tailoring rule”) in May 2010, and it also became effective January 2011, although it remains the subject of several pending lawsuits filed by industry groups. The tailoring rule establishes new GHG emissions thresholds that determine those stationary sources that must obtain permits under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration, or PSD, and Title V programs of the CAA. The permitting requirements of the PSD program apply to newly constructed or modified major sources. Obtaining a PSD permit requires a source to install best available control technology, or BACT, for those regulated pollutants that are emitted in certain quantities. Phase I of the tailoring rule, which became effective on January 2, 2011, requires projects already triggering PSD permitting that are also increasing GHG emissions by more than 75,000 tons per year to comply with BACT rules for their GHG emissions. Phase II of the tailoring rule, which became effective on July 1, 2011, requires preconstruction permits including BACT for new projects that emit 100,000 tons of GHG emissions per year or existing facilities that make major modifications increasing GHG emissions by more than 75,000 tons per year. Phase III of the tailoring rule, which is expected to go into effect in 2013, will seek to streamline the permitting process and permanently exclude smaller sources from the permitting process. Additionally, in September 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the 26 Table of Contents reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the U.S., beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. Restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide could adversely affect our cost of doing business and demand for the ethanol we produce. We depend on rail, truck, and barge transportation for delivery of corn to us and the distribution of ethanol to our customers. We depend on rail, truck, and barge transportation to deliver corn to us and to distribute ethanol to our customers. Ethanol is not currently distributed by pipeline. Disruption to the timely supply of these transportation services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including the availability or cost of fuel or railcars to serve our facilities, regulations affecting the industry, or labor stoppages in the transportation industry, could have an adverse effect on our ability to supply corn to our production facilities or to distribute ethanol to our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. We, and some of our major customers, have unionized employees and could be adversely affected by labor disputes. Some of our employees and some employees of our major customers are unionized. At December 31, 2011, approximately 45% of our employees were unionized. Our unionized employees are hourly workers located at our Illinois facilities. The unionized employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement between our subsidiary, Aventine Renewable Energy, Inc., and the Union. On October 29, 2010, the Union ratified a new collective bargaining agreement with Aventine Renewable Energy, Inc. for our hourly production workers in Pekin, Illinois. This new agreement is effective November 1, 2010, and runs through October 31, 2012. The agreement contains provisions, terms and conditions that are customary in collective bargaining agreements of this type, including, among other things, wages, hours, work assignments, management rights, seniority, arbitration and grievance procedures, benefits, vacations, and holidays. The benefit and base wage packages for the currently covered employees remain substantially similar to those in the previous collective bargaining agreement; the currently covered employees also received lump sum annual payments of $750 in November 2010 and November 2011. Employees hired after November 1, 2010, will only be eligible for the 401(k) program as their retirement benefit. The collective bargaining agreement may not prevent a strike or work stoppage in the future, and any such work stoppage could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. There is no certainty that the current collective bargaining agreement will be extended or that a new collective bargaining agreement will be reached. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our ability to operate effectively may be impaired. Our ability to operate our business and implement strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. Our management philosophy of cost-control means that we operate with a limited number of corporate personnel, and our commitment to a less centralized organization also places greater emphasis on the strength of local management. Our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, particularly executive management. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel, domestically or abroad, could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects. If our internal computer network and applications suffer disruptions or fail to operate as designed, our operations will be disrupted and our business may be harmed. We rely on network infrastructure and enterprise applications, and internal technology systems for our operational, marketing support and sales, and product development activities. The hardware and 27 Table of Contents software systems related to such activities are subject to damage from earthquakes, floods, lightning, tornadoes, fire, power loss, telecommunication failures, and other similar events. They are also subject to acts such as computer viruses, physical or electronic vandalism or other similar disruptions that could cause system interruptions and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from fulfilling our customers’ orders. We have developed disaster recovery plans and backup systems to reduce the potentially adverse effects of such events, but there are no assurances such plans and systems would be sufficient. Any event that causes failures or interruption in our hardware or software systems could result in disruption of our business operations, have a negative impact on our operating results, and damage our reputation. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by technological advances. The development and implementation of new technologies may result in a significant reduction in the costs of ethanol production. We cannot predict when new technologies may become available, the rate of acceptance of new technologies by our competitors or the costs associated with such new technologies. In addition, advances in the development of alternatives to ethanol, or corn ethanol in particular, could significantly reduce demand for or eliminate the need for ethanol, or corn ethanol in particular, as a fuel oxygenate or octane enhancer. Any advances in technology which require significant capital expenditures for us to remain competitive or which otherwise reduce demand for ethanol will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The trading price for the shares of our common stock may be volatile. The liquidity of any market for the shares of our common stock will depend on a number of factors, including: · the number of stockholders; · our operating performance and financial condition; · the market for similar securities; and · the interest of securities dealers in making a market in the shares of our common stock. Historically, the market for common stock has been subject to disruptions that have caused substantial volatility in the prices of these securities, which may not have corresponded to the business or financial success of the particular company. We cannot assure you that the market for the shares of our common stock will be free from similar disruptions. Any such disruptions could have an adverse effect on stockholders. In addition, the price of the shares of our common stock could decline significantly if our future operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of market analysts and investors. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on the market price of the shares of our common stock include: · actual or expected fluctuations in our operating results; · actual or expected changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; · conditions in our industry generally; · conditions in the financial markets in general or changes in general economic conditions; 28 Table of Contents · our inability to raise additional capital; · changes in market prices for our product or for our raw materials; and · changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding the shares of our common stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally. We have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock, so you may not receive funds without selling your common stock. Our Board of Directors presently intends to retain all of our earnings for the expansion of our business; therefore, we have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends, and other considerations that our Board of Directors deems relevant. Also, the provisions of our debt instruments restrict the payment of dividends. Accordingly, you may have to sell some or all of your common stock in order to generate cash flow from your investment. Ownership of our capital stock is concentrated among our largest stockholders and their affiliates. Our three largest stockholders collectively own approximately 64% of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, these stockholders have significant influence over all matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership will limit your ability to influence corporate matters, and as a result, actions may be taken that you may not view as beneficial. Shares eligible for sale could adversely affect the price of the shares of our common stock. The market price of the shares of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing stockholders or the perception that such sales might occur. These sales also might make it difficult for our equity securities to be sold in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. If any of our existing stockholders sell a significant number of shares, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Provisions of our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Provisions in our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and of Delaware corporate law may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our management and Board of Directors. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change of control or change our management and Board of Directors. We have “blank check” preferred stock. Our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without further stockholder action in one or more series and to designate the dividend rate, voting rights and other rights preferences and restrictions. The issuance of preferred stock could have an adverse impact on holders of common stock. Preferred stock is senior to common stock. Additionally, preferred stock could be issued with dividend rights senior to the rights of holders of common stock. Finally, preferred stock could be issued as part of a “poison pill,” which could have the effect of deterring offers to acquire our company. 29 Table of Contents The holders of our common stock do not have cumulative voting rights, preemptive rights or rights to convert their common stock to other securities. We are authorized to issue 15,000,000 shares of common stock, $0.001 par value per share. As of February 10, 2012, there were 8,392,341 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. Since the holders of our common stock do not have cumulative voting rights, the holders of a majority of the shares of common stock present, in person or by proxy, will be able to elect all of the members of our Board of Directors. The holders of shares of our common stock do not have preemptive rights or rights to convert their common stock into other securities. Our common stock has been thinly traded and there has been no active trading market for our common stock and an active trading market may not develop. The trading volume of our common stock has been low and reliable market quotations for our common stock have not been available, partially due to the fact that we are not listed on an exchange and our common stock is only traded over-the-counter. An active trading market for our common stock may not develop or, if developed, may not continue, and a holder of any of our securities may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of such securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 