Risk Factors — We may engage in hedging or derivative transactions which involve risks that can harm our business.” Growth in the sale and distribution of ethanol is dependent on the changes in and expansion of related infrastructure, which may not occur on a timely basis, if at all, and our operations could be adversely affected by infrastructure disruptions. Substantial development of infrastructure by persons and entities outside our control are required for our operations and the ethanol industry generally, to grow. Areas requiring expansion include, but are not limited to, additional rail capacity, additional storage facilities for ethanol, increases in truck fleets capable of transporting ethanol within localized markets, expansion of refining and blending facilities to handle ethanol, growth in service stations equipped to handle ethanol fuels, and growth in the fleet of flexible fuel vehicles capable of using E85 fuel. Substantial investments required for these infrastructure 27 Table of Contents changes and expansions may not be made or they may not be made on a timely basis. Any delay or failure in making the changes in or expansion of infrastructure could hurt the demand or prices for our products, impede our delivery of products, impose additional costs on us or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business is dependent on the continuing availability of infrastructure and any infrastructure disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in the demand for gasoline may reduce demand for ethanol. Ethanol is marketed as an oxygenate to reduce vehicle emissions from gasoline, as an octane enhancer to improve the octane rating of gasoline with which it is blended and as a fuel extender. As a result, ethanol demand has historically been influenced by the supply of and demand for gasoline. If gasoline demand decreases, our ability to sell our product and our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. The use and demand for ethanol and its supply are highly dependent on various federal and state legislation and regulation, and any changes in legislation or regulation could cause the demand for ethanol to decline or its supply to increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Various federal and state laws, regulations and programs have led to increased use of ethanol in fuel. For example, certain laws, regulations and programs provide economic incentives to ethanol producers and users. Among these regulations are (1) the renewable fuels standard, which requires an increasing amount of renewable fuels to be used in the U.S. each year, (2) the VEETC, which provided a tax credit of $0.51 per gallon (prior to January 1, 2009 when it was reduced to $0.45 per gallon) on 10% ethanol blends that is set to expire in 2010, (3) the small ethanol producer tax credit, for which we do not qualify because of the size of our ethanol plants, and (4) the federal “farm bill,” which establishes federal subsidies for agricultural commodities including corn, our primary feedstock. These laws, regulations and programs are constantly changing. Federal and state legislators and environmental regulators could adopt or modify laws, regulations or programs that could adversely affect the use of ethanol. Barring a change in current regulation, requirements for the state of California will make it difficult for ethanol produced from corn in many Midwestern states to be used as a fuel in California beginning in 2011. In addition, certain state legislatures oppose the use of ethanol because they must ship ethanol in from other corn-producing states, which could significantly increase gasoline prices in the state. If we cannot increase the amount of non-corn based ethanol, cellulosic biofuels or bio-mass based diesel we produce, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 established a revised renewable fuels standard, or RFS, for the years 2006 through 2022. The RFS sets forth the minimum amount of renewable fuels that must be present in U.S. transportation fuels. The law starts at 9 billion gallons in 2008 and rises to 36 billion gallons by 2022. For 2015 and all subsequent years, the amount of the renewable fuels mandate that can be satisfied by corn-based ethanol is currently capped at 15 billion gallons. The remainder of the mandate is required to be obtained from cellulosic ethanol and other advanced biofuels. If our and our competitors’ facilities cannot accept feedstocks, other than corn, or if we do not begin producing non-corn based ethanol in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents The Renewable Fuel Standard 2 recently released by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) may require us to include alternative technologies in our plants under construction, which may increase the cost to complete the facilities. The EPA’s recently released Renewable Fuel Standard 2 includes the requirements that the lifecycle greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of a qualifying renewable fuel must be less than the lifecycle GHG emissions of the 2005 baseline average gasoline or diesel fuel that it replaces. The lifecycle GHG threshold for ethanol is 20%. Fuels from existing capacity of current facilities and of facilities that commenced construction prior to December 19, 2007 are exempt or grandfathered from the 20% lifecycle requirement. Plants whose construction commenced prior to December 19, 2007 must be completed within three years in order to be exempt or grandfathered from the 20% lifecycle requirement. Plants not exempt or grandfathered must include advanced efficient technologies as defined by the regulations in order to meet the Renewable Fuel Standard 2 requirements. If our Mt. Vernon plant and the Aurora West plant are not completed within the required three years, the plants may not be exempt or grandfathered from the 20% lifecycle requirement and could require additional advanced efficient technologies to be included in the construction, which is likely to require additional capital which may be substantial. Certain countries can import ethanol into the U.S. duty free, which may undermine the ethanol industry in the U.S. Imported ethanol is generally subject to a $0.54 per gallon tariff and a 2.5% ad valorem tax that was designed to offset the $0.45 per gallon ethanol subsidy currently available under the federal excise tax incentive program for refineries and blenders that mix ethanol with their gasoline. At a certain price level, imported ethanol may become profitable for sale in the U.S. despite the tariff. This occurred in 2006, due to a spike in the ethanol prices and insufficient supply. As a result, there may effectively be a ceiling on U.S. ethanol prices. This, combined with uncertainties surrounding U.S. producers’ ability to meet domestic demand, resulted in significant imports of ethanol, especially from Brazil. Furthermore, East Coast facilities are better suited to bringing in product by water rather than rail (the preferred path for ethanol from the Midwest). The combination made it more economic for some buyers to import ethanol with the full import duty than to bring supplies from the Midwest. Given the increase in ethanol demand as a result of the new RFS and potential transportation bottlenecks delivering material from the Midwest, imports of ethanol could rise. There is a special exemption from the tariff for ethanol imported from 24 countries in Central America and the Caribbean islands which is limited to a total of 7% of U.S. production per year (with additional exemptions for ethanol produced from feedstock in the Caribbean region over the 7% limit). In addition the NAFTA (The North America Free Trade Agreement which was signed into law January 1, 1994) countries, Canada and Mexico, are exempt from duty. See “Item 1 — Business — Legislative Drivers and Governmental Regulations — The federal ethanol tax incentive program.” Imports from the exempted countries have increased in recent years and are expected to increase further as a result of new plants under development. We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and permit conditions (and interpretations thereof), including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, and the health and safety of our employees. These laws, regulations, and permits require us to incur 29 Table of Contents significant capital and other costs, including costs to obtain and maintain expensive pollution control equipment. They may also require us to make operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. A violation of these laws, regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, natural resource damages, criminal sanctions, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns. In addition, environmental laws and regulations (and interpretations thereof) change over time, and any such changes, more vigorous enforcement policies or the discovery of currently unknown conditions may require substantial additional environmental expenditures. We are also subject to potential liability for the investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination at each of the properties that we own or operate and at off-site locations where we arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes. For instance, soil and groundwater contamination has been identified in the past at our Illinois campus. If any of these sites are subject to investigation and/or remediation requirements, we may be responsible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act or other environmental laws for all or part of the costs of such investigation and/or remediation, and for damages to natural resources. We may also be subject to related claims by private parties alleging property damage or personal injury due to exposure to hazardous or other materials at or from such properties. We have not accrued any amounts for environmental matters as of December 31, 2009. The ultimate costs of any liabilities that may be identified or the discovery of additional contaminants could adversely impact our results of operation or financial condition. In addition, the hazards and risks associated with producing and transporting our products (such as fires, natural disasters, explosions, abnormal pressures and spills) may result in releases of hazardous substances, and may result in claims from governmental authorities or third parties relating to actual or alleged personal injury, property damage, or damages to natural resources. We maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses caused by our operations. Our coverage includes, but is not limited to, physical damage to assets, employer’s liability, comprehensive general liability, automobile liability and workers’ compensation. We do not carry environmental insurance. We believe that our insurance is adequate for our industry, but losses could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of events which result in significant personal injury or damage to our property, natural resources or third parties that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our air emissions are subject to the federal Clean Air Act, as amended, and similar state laws which generally require us to obtain and maintain air emission permits for our ongoing operations as well as for any expansion of existing facilities or any new facilities. Obtaining and maintaining those permits requires us to incur costs, and any future more stringent standards may result in increased costs and may limit or interfere with our operating flexibility. In addition, the permits ultimately issued may impose conditions which are more costly to implement than we had anticipated. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and could adversely affect us in our efforts to compete with foreign producers not subject to such stringent requirements. Federal and state environmental authorities have been investigating alleged excess VOCS emissions and other air emissions from many U.S. ethanol plants, including our Illinois facilities. The investigation relating to our Illinois wet mill facility is still pending, and we could be required to install additional air pollution control equipment or take other measures to control air pollutant emissions at that facility. If authorities require us to install controls, we would anticipate that costs would be higher than the approximately $3.4 million we incurred in connection with a similar matter at our Nebraska facility due to the larger size of the Illinois wet mill facility. In addition, if the authorities determine our emissions were in violation of applicable law, we would likely be required to pay fines that could be material. 30 Table of Contents We have made, and expect to continue making, significant capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with increasingly stringent environmental laws, regulations and permits, including compliance with the EPA National Emissions Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants, or NESHAP, for industrial, commercial and institutional boilers and process heaters. This NESHAP was issued but subsequently vacated. The vacated version of the rule required us to implement maximum achievable control technology at our Illinois wet mill facility to reduce hazardous air pollutant emissions from our boilers. We expect the EPA will revise the rule to impose more stringent requirements than were contained in the vacated version. In the absence of a final EPA NESHAP for industrial, commercial and institutional boilers and process heaters, we are working with state authorities to determine what technology will be required at our Illinois wet mill facility and when such technology must be installed. We currently cannot estimate the amount that will be needed to comply with any future federal or state technology requirement regarding air emissions from our boilers. We currently generate revenue from the sale of carbon dioxide, which is a co-product of the ethanol production process at each of our Illinois and Nebraska facilities. New laws or regulations relating to the production, disposal or emissions of carbon dioxide may require us to incur significant additional costs and may also adversely affect our ability to continue generating revenue from carbon dioxide sales. We are substantially dependent on our three facilities and any operational disruption could result in a reduction of our sales volumes and could cause us to incur substantial expenditures. The substantial majority of our net income is derived from the sale of ethanol and the related bio-products and co-products that we produce at our Illinois facilities and our Nebraska facility. Our operations may be subject to significant interruption if either of the Illinois facilities or Nebraska facility experiences a major accident or is damaged by severe weather or other natural disaster. In addition, our operations may be subject to labor disruptions and unscheduled downtime, or other hazards inherent in our industry. Some of those hazards may cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension or termination of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. As protection against these hazards, we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance which we believe is in accordance with customary industry practices, but we cannot provide any assurance that this insurance will be adequate to fully cover the potential hazards described above or that we will be able to renew this insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The market for natural gas is subject to market conditions that create uncertainty in the price and availability of the natural gas that we utilize in our manufacturing process. We rely upon third parties for our supply of natural gas which is consumed in the production of ethanol. The prices for and availability of natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by factors beyond our control such as weather conditions, overall economic conditions and foreign and domestic governmental regulation and relations. Significant disruptions in the supply of natural gas could temporarily impair our ability to produce ethanol for our customers. Further, increases in natural gas prices or changes in our natural gas costs relative to natural gas costs paid by competitors may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The price fluctuation in natural gas prices over the ten year period from 2000 through December 31, 2009, based on the New York Mercantile Exchange, or NYMEX, daily futures data, has ranged from a low of $1.83 per MMBtu in September 2001 to a high of $15.38 per MMBtu in December 2005. We currently use approximately 3.4 million MMBtu’s of natural gas annually, depending upon business conditions, in the 31 Table of Contents manufacture of our products. Our usage of natural gas will increase with the planned expansion of our production facilities. In an attempt to minimize the effects of fluctuations in natural gas costs on operating income, we have taken hedging positions in the natural gas forward or futures markets in the past; however, these hedging transactions also involve risk to our operations. Since natural gas prices are volatile and we are not currently taking hedging positions, our results could be adversely affected by an increase in natural gas prices. See “We may engage in hedging or derivative transactions which involve risks that can harm our business.” Changes in ethanol prices can affect the value of our inventory which may significantly affect our profitability. Our distribution system allows us to carry an inventory of ethanol to better serve our customers and to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. Our inventory is valued based upon a weighted average price we pay for ethanol that we purchase from our purchase/resale transactions, along with our own cost to produce ethanol. In the past, we occasionally increased our inventory, in order to profit when we believed market prices would rise. Changes, either upward or downward, in our purchased cost of ethanol or our own production costs, will cause the inventory value to fluctuate from period to period, perhaps significantly. These changes in value flow through our statement of operations as the inventory is sold or its value is deemed to be impaired and can significantly increase or decrease our profitability. We will recognize income from cancellation of indebtedness if our proposed Plan of Reorganization is approved. If the Plan is confirmed, we will recognize income from cancellation of indebtedness (“COD”) when we emerge from bankruptcy to the extent that debt is discharged for consideration to a creditor for an amount that is less than the amount of such debt. For these purposes consideration includes the amount of cash and the fair market value of property, including stock of the debtor, transferred to the creditor. The amount of COD income, in general, is the excess of (a) the adjusted issue price of the indebtedness satisfied, over (b) the sum of the amount of cash paid and the fair market value of any new consideration (including the new stock of the Company following emergence from bankruptcy) given in satisfaction of the cancelled debt. Although the precise amount of COD income that we will realize cannot be determined until the effective date of the Plan, we currently estimate that the amount of COD income we could realize will be approximately $135 million to $175 million for U.S. federal income tax purposes. To the extent of COD income, we will be required to reduce certain of our tax attributes (principally, the tax basis in our assets) in the year following emergence. Among other things, this would have the effect of reducing our future depreciation deductions. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) provided an exception to the immediate realization of COD income, which would permit us to elect to defer the current recognition of any COD income, and instead recognize any such income ratably over a five-year period beginning in 2014. We do not currently anticipate that we will make the deferral election for COD income, as described above. 32 Table of Contents We depend on rail, truck and barge transportation for delivery of corn to us and the distribution of ethanol to our customers. We depend on rail, truck and barge to deliver corn to us and to distribute ethanol to the terminals currently in our network. Ethanol is not currently distributed by pipeline. Disruption to the timely supply of these transportation services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including the availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, or labor stoppages in the transportation industry, could have an adverse effect on our ability to supply corn to our production facilities or to distribute ethanol to our terminals, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Consumer resistance to the use of ethanol may affect the demand for ethanol, which could affect our ability to market our product. Media reports in the mainstream press indicate that some consumers believe the use of ethanol will have a negative impact on retail gasoline prices or is the reason for increases in food prices. Many also believe that ethanol adds to air pollution and harms car and truck engines. Still other consumers believe that the process of producing ethanol actually uses more fossil energy, such as oil and natural gas, than the amount of energy produced by ethanol. These consumer beliefs could be wide-spread in the future. If consumers choose not to buy ethanol blended fuels, it would affect the demand for the ethanol we produce which could lower demand for our product and negatively affect our profitability. Various studies have criticized the efficiency of ethanol, which could lead to the reduction or repeal of incentives and tariffs that promote the use and domestic production of ethanol. Although many trade groups, academics and governmental agencies have supported ethanol as a fuel additive that promotes a cleaner environment, others have criticized ethanol production as consuming considerably more energy and emitting more greenhouse gases than other biofuels. In particular, two February 2008 studies concluded the current production of corn-based ethanol results in more greenhouse gas emissions than conventional fuels if both direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, including those resulting from land use changes resulting from planting crops for ethanol feedstocks, are taken into account. Other studies have suggested that corn-based ethanol is less efficient than ethanol produced from switch grass or wheat grain. If these views gain acceptance, support for existing measures promoting use and domestic production of corn-based ethanol could decline, leading to reduction or repeal of these measures. We sell ethanol primarily to the major oil companies and traders and therefore we can from time to time be subject to a high degree of concentration of our sales and accounts receivable. We sell ethanol to most of the major integrated oil companies and a significant number of large, independent refiners and petroleum wholesalers. Our trade receivables result primarily from our ethanol marketing operations. As a general policy, collateral is not required for receivables, but customers’ financial condition and creditworthiness are evaluated regularly. Credit risk concentration related to our accounts receivable results from our top 10 customers having generated 54.7% and 47% of our consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In 2009, Biourja Trading accounted for 10.5% and Exxon Mobil accounted for 11.1% of our net sales. No other customers in 2009 represented more than 10% of our consolidated net sales volume. No customers in 2008 or 2007 represented more than 10% of our consolidated net sales volume. 33 Table of Contents If we would suddenly lose a major customer and not be able to replace the demand for our product very quickly it could have a material impact on our sales and profitability. Research is currently underway to develop production of biobutanol, a product that could directly compete with ethanol and may have potential advantages over ethanol. Biobutanol, an advanced biofuel produced from agricultural feedstock, is currently being developed by various parties, including a partnership between BP and DuPont. According to the partnership, biobutanol has many advantages over ethanol. The advantages include: low vapor pressure, making it more easily added to gasoline; energy content closer to that of gasoline, such that the decrease in fuel economy caused by the blending of biobutanol with gasoline is less than that of other biofuels when blended with gasoline; it can be blended at higher concentration than other biofuels for use in standard vehicles; it is less susceptible to separation when water is present than in pure ethanol-gasoline blends; and it is expected to be potentially suitable for transportation in gas pipelines, resulting in a possible cost advantage over ethanol producers relying on rail transportation. Although BP and DuPont have not announced a timeline for producing biobutanol on a large scale, if biobutanol production comes online in the United States, biobutanol could have a competitive advantage over ethanol and could make it more difficult to market our ethanol, which could reduce our ability to generate revenue and profits. We, and some of our major customers, have unionized employees and could be adversely affected by labor disputes. Some of our employees and some employees of our major customers are unionized. At December 31, 2009, approximately 55% of our employees were unionized. Our unionized employees are hourly workers located at our Illinois facilities. The unionized employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement between our subsidiary, Aventine Renewable Energy, Inc. and the United Steelworkers International Union, Local 7-662. The collective bargaining agreement with the Union was scheduled to expire in October 2009. Prior to the expiration of the collective bargaining agreement, the Company and the Union agreed to extend the term of the current collective bargaining agreement by one year through and including October 31, 2010 on the same terms and conditions, subject to an option to reopen negotiations upon mutual consent after the effective date of a confirmed Chapter 11 plan of reorganization. There can be no assurances that we will be able to timely and successfully negotiate a new labor contract with terms that allow us to operate our business in today’s difficult operating environment. If we are unable to timely and successfully negotiate a new labor contract, our business may be disrupted and our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively affected. We have a significant stockholder whose interests may differ from your interests and who may be able to exert significant influence over corporate decisions of the Company. Through their ownership of Aventine Renewable Energy Holdings LLC, the MSCP funds beneficially own approximately 27.5% of our outstanding common stock. Metalmark Subadvisor LLC, an affiliate of Metalmark, an independent private equity firm established by former principals of Morgan Stanley Capital Partners, manages certain MSCP funds on a sub-advisory basis. In January 2008 substantially all of the employees of Metalmark became employees of Citi Alternative Investments Inc., although Metalmark remains an independent entity owned by those individuals and continues to manage 34 Table of Contents the applicable MSCP funds on a sub-advisory basis. Two of our directors, Messrs. Abramson and Hoffman, are currently employees of both Metalmark and Citigroup. As a result, Metalmark may be deemed to control our management and policies. Metalmark may have an interest in pursuing transactions that, in their judgment, enhance the value of the applicable funds’ equity investment in our Company, even though those transactions may involve risks to you as a stockholder. In addition, circumstances could arise under which the interests of Metalmark could be in conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. If we are able to obtain confirmation of the proposed Plan of Reorganization and effect the transactions contemplated thereby, we may have a new significant stockholder or group of significant stockholders. The relationship between the sales price of our co-products and the price we pay for corn can fluctuate significantly which may affect our results of operations and profitability. We sell co-products and bio-products that are remnants of the ethanol production process in order to reduce our costs and increase profitability. Historically, sales prices for these co-products have tracked along with the price of corn. However, there have been occasions when the value of these co-products and bio-products has lagged behind increases in corn prices. As a result, we may occasionally generate less revenue from the sale of these co-products and bio-products relative to the price of corn. In addition, several of our co-products compete with similar products made from other plant feedstock. The cost of these other feedstocks may not have risen as corn prices have risen. Consequently, the price we may receive for these products may not rise as corn prices rise, thereby lowering our cost recovery percentage relative to corn. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by technological advances. The development and implementation of new technologies may result in a significant reduction in the costs of ethanol production. We cannot predict when new technologies may become available, the rate of acceptance of new technologies by our competitors or the costs associated with such new technologies. In addition, advances in the development of alternatives to ethanol, or corn ethanol in particular, could significantly reduce demand for or eliminate the need for ethanol, or corn ethanol in particular, as a fuel oxygenate or octane enhancer. Any advances in technology which require significant capital expenditures for us to remain competitive or which otherwise reduce demand for ethanol will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks associated with the operation of our production facilities may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our revenue is dependent on the continued operation of our various production facilities. The operation of production plants involves many risks including: · the breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment or processes; · inclement weather and natural disasters; · the need to comply with directives of, and maintain all necessary permits from, governmental agencies; 35 Table of Contents · raw material supply disruptions; · labor force shortages, work stoppages, or other labor difficulties; and · transportation disruptions. The occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to the above events, may have an adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular facility, or to us as a whole. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our ability to operate effectively may be impaired. Our ability to operate our business and implement strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. Our management philosophy of cost-control means that we operate with a limited number of corporate personnel, and our commitment to a less centralized organization also places greater emphasis on the strength of local management. Our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, particularly executive management. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel, domestically or abroad, could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects. We may engage in hedging or derivative transactions which involve risks that can harm our business. In an attempt to minimize the effects of the volatility of the price of corn, natural gas, electricity and ethanol (“commodities”), we may take economic hedging positions in the commodities. Economic hedging arrangements also expose us to the risk of financial loss in situations where the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract or there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price of the commodities. Although we attempt to link our economic hedging activities to sales plans and pricing activities, occasionally such hedging activities can themselves result in losses. We have not been involved in hedging activities since February 2009. As a result, our results of operations may be adversely affected during periods in which corn and/or natural gas prices increase. Fixed price and gasoline related contracts for ethanol may be at a price level lower than the prevailing price. At any given time, contract prices for ethanol may be at a price level different from the current prevailing price, and such a difference could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2009, we had no fixed price or gasoline related sales contracts for ethanol. If our internal computer network and applications suffer disruptions or fail to operate as designed, our operations will be disrupted and our business may be harmed. We rely on network infrastructure and enterprise applications, and internal technology systems for our operational, marketing support and sales, and product development activities. The hardware and software systems related to such activities are subject to damage from earthquakes, floods, lightning, tornadoes, fire, power loss, telecommunication failures and other similar events. They are also subject to acts such as computer viruses, physical or electronic vandalism or other similar disruptions that could cause system interruptions and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from fulfilling our customers’ orders. 36 Table of Contents We have developed disaster recovery plans and backup systems to reduce the potentially adverse effects of such events, but there are no assurances such plans and systems would be sufficient. Any event that causes failures or interruption in our hardware or software systems could result in disruption of our business operations, have a negative impact on our operating results, and damage our reputation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved comments. 37 Table of Contents 