Risk Factors.” We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other foreign countries or by the FDA. The failure to obtain these approvals could harm our business. If we are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from governments or third-party payors for any products that we may develop or if we are unable to obtain acceptable prices for those products, they may not be purchased or used and, as a result, our revenue and prospects for profitability could suffer. Our future revenue and profit will depend heavily upon the availability of adequate reimbursement for the use of our approved product candidates from governmental and other third-party payors, both in the United States and in other countries. Even if we are successful in bringing one or more product candidates to market, these products may not be considered cost-effective, and the amount reimbursed for any product candidates may be insufficient to allow us to sell our product candidates profitably. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend on a number of factors, including the third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is: • a covered benefit under its health plan; • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining reimbursement approval for a product from each government or third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process that will require the build-out of a sufficient staff and could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payor. Because none of our product candidates have been approved for marketing, we can provide you no assurances at this time regarding their cost-effectiveness and the amount, if any, or method of reimbursement. There may 56 Table of Contents be significant delays in obtaining reimbursement coverage for newly approved product candidates and we may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to reimbursement. Even when a payor determines that a product is eligible for reimbursement, coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the product candidate is approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies. Increasingly, third-party payors who reimburse healthcare costs, such as government and private payors, are requiring that companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices, and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. Moreover, eligibility for coverage does not mean that any product candidate will be reimbursed at a rate that allows us to make a profit in all cases, or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacturing, sale and distribution. In non-U.S. jurisdictions, we must obtain separate reimbursement approvals and comply with related foreign legal and regulatory requirements. In some countries, including those in the European Union, our product candidates may be subject to government price controls. Pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take a considerable amount of time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product candidate. If the reimbursement we are able to obtain for any product candidate we develop is inadequate in light of our development and other costs or is significantly delayed, our business could be materially harmed. Product liability claims may damage our reputation and, if insurance proves inadequate, these claims may harm our business. We may be exposed to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the biopharmaceutical industry. A product liability claim may damage our reputation by raising questions about our product candidate’s safety and efficacy and could limit our ability to sell one or more product candidates, if approved, by preventing or interfering with commercialization of our product candidates. In addition, product liability insurance for the biopharmaceutical industry is generally expensive to the extent it is available at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain and maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that we will be able to secure increased coverage if the commercialization of our product candidates progresses, or that future claims against us will be covered by our product liability insurance. Although we currently have product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials, our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may be insufficient to reimburse us for any or all expenses or losses we may suffer. A successful claim against us with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. We completed the initial public offering of shares of our common stock in October 2009 at a price of $10.00 per share. Subsequently, our common stock has traded as low as $5.27 per share. The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • results from our clinical trial programs, including our ongoing Phase 3 clinical trials for OMS103HP for use in ACL reconstruction surgery, our ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial for OMS302, our ongoing Phase 1/Phase 2 clinical trial for OMS201, and our ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial for our Addiction program; • FDA or international regulatory actions, including failure to receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates; • failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced product candidates on a timely basis; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, regulatory approvals, clinical milestones, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; 57 Table of Contents • third-party coverage and reimbursement policies; • additions or departures of key personnel; • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; • our ability to meet our repayment and other obligations under our debt facility with BlueCrest, pursuant to which we have borrowed $17.0 million; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • any major change in our board or management; • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets; and • political instability, natural disasters, war and/or events of terrorism. From time to time, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals or milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. Also, from time to time, we expect that we will publicly announce the anticipated timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet these milestones as publicly announced, our stock price may decline and the commercialization of our product and product candidates may be delayed. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of publicly traded companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of companies’ stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance. These fluctuations may be even more pronounced in the trading market for our stock. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Future sales of shares by existing shareholders could cause our stock price to decline. Approximately 14.5 million shares of our common stock will become available for sale by our shareholders upon the expiration of lock-up agreements in April 2010. If these shareholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market after the lock-up period lapses, the trading price of our common stock could decline. In addition, approximately 5.1 million shares of common stock that are either subject to outstanding warrants or subject to outstanding options or reserved for future issuance under our employee benefit plans will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements, the lock-up agreements and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act, as applicable. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Washington law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our shareholders, more difficult and prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and under Washington law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on shareholder actions by less than unanimous written consent, restrictions on the ability of shareholders to fill board vacancies and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Washington, we are governed by the provisions of Chapter 23B.19 of the Washington Business Corporation Act, which, among other things, restricts the ability of shareholders owning ten percent or more of our outstanding voting stock from merging 58 Table of Contents or combining with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for shareholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. Our management has broad discretion over the use of the net proceeds we received from our initial public offering and may not use the net proceeds in ways that increase the value of our stock price. We have broad discretion over the use of the net proceeds we received from our initial public offering and we could spend the proceeds in ways that do not improve our results of operations or enhance the value of our common stock. Our failure to apply these funds effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, delay the development of our product candidates and cause the price of our common stock to decline. We have never declared or paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Our business requires significant funding, and we have not generated any material revenue. We currently plan to invest all available funds and future earnings, if any, in the development and growth of our business. Therefore, we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, a rise in the market price of our common stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable, will be your sole source of potential gain in the foreseeable future, and you should not rely on an investment in our common stock for dividend income. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 