Item 1A. Risk Factors We have invested excess cash in auction rate securities ("ARS"). Should we not be able to liquidate a substantial portion of the remaining portfolio of these ARS securities on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, we will have to either attempt to raise additional funds or slow down the construction of our new facilities, or both. In addition, delays in the construction of our new facilities could expose us to material penalties. At December 31, 2007, we had invested $211.5 million in taxable ARS which we classified as current assets. We consider these securities as available for sale. The ARS held by the Company are private placement securities with long-term stated maturities for which the interest rates are reset through a Dutch auction every 28 days. The auctions have historically provided a liquid market for these securities as investors historically could readily sell their investments at auction. With the liquidity issues experienced in global credit and capital markets, the ARS held by the Company have experienced multiple failed auctions, beginning on February 8, 2008, as the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders. These securities may not provide the liquidity to us as we need it, as it could take until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 35 years) to realize our investments' recorded value. Currently, there is a very limited market for any of these securities and further liquidations at this time, if possible, would likely be at a significant discount. Accordingly, we do not currently intend to attempt to liquidate any more of these securities until market conditions improve or our liquidity needs require us to do so. Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2007 was $17.2 million. Successful ARS liquidations completed in 2008 generated $82.8 million. At December 31, 2007, we also had availability under our secured revolving credit facility of $122.6 million. Our total estimated remaining expenditures needed to complete our two new facilities at December 31, 2007 are estimated to be between $295 million and $305 million approximately evenly spent over the balance of the construction period through the first quarter of 2009. After utilization of our current available resources, should we not be able to liquidate a substantial portion of the remaining portfolio of these ARS securities on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, we will have to either attempt to raise additional funds or slow down the construction of our new facilities, or both. In addition, delays in the construction of our new facilities could expose us to material penalties. We operate in a highly competitive industry with low barriers to entry. In addition, if the expected increase in ethanol demand does not occur, or if the demand for ethanol otherwise decreases, there may be excess capacity in our industry. In the U.S., we compete with other corn processors and refiners, including Archer-Daniels-Midland Company, VeraSun Energy Corporation, Hawkeye Holdings, Inc., Pacific Ethanol, Cargill, Inc. and A.E. Staley Manufacturing Company, a subsidiary of Tate & Lyle, PLC. Some of our competitors are divisions of larger enterprises and have greater financial resources than we do. Although many of our competitors are larger than we are, we also have smaller competitors. Farm cooperatives comprised of groups of individual farmers have been able to compete successfully. As of December 2007, the top ten domestic producers accounted for approximately 54% of all production capacity, and there has been substantial consolidation activity in the industry which we expect to continue. If our competitors consolidate or otherwise grow and/or we are unable to similarly increase our size and scope, our business and prospects may be significantly and adversely affected. We also face increasing competition from international suppliers. Although there is a tariff on foreign produced ethanol that is slightly larger than the federal ethanol tax incentive, ethanol imports equivalent to up to 7% of total domestic production from certain countries were exempted from this tariff under the CBI (The Caribbean Basin Initiative) to spur economic development in Central America and the Caribbean. 22 Moreover, domestic capacity has increased significantly from 1.3 billion gallons per year in 1997 to 7.5 billion gallons per year at the end of 2007. In addition, there is a significant amount of ethanol capacity currently under construction. According to the RFA, as of December 2007, approximately 5.8 billion gallons per year of production capacity is currently under construction. We believe that this capacity is being added primarily to address anticipated increases in demand. Demand for ethanol may not increase as quickly as expected or to a level that exceeds supply, or may not increase at all. If the ethanol industry has excess capacity and such excess capacity results in a fall in prices, it may have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Excess capacity may result from the increases in capacity coupled with insufficient demand. Demand could be impaired due to a number of factors, including lack of infrastructure, distribution issues, regulatory developments and reduced U.S. gasoline consumption. Reduced gasoline consumption could occur as a result of increased gasoline or oil prices. For example, the price of oil hit $100 per barrel in December 2007. Gasoline price increases could cause businesses and consumers to reduce driving or acquire vehicles with more favorable gasoline mileage. There is some evidence that this has occurred in the recent past as U.S. gasoline prices have increased. Demand for ethanol can also fall if gasoline prices decrease because ethanol is used as a potential substitute for gasoline. During 2007, our results of operations were negatively impacted because of the perception that the current capacity being built would outstrip demand. In addition, our top customers are oil companies which make significant profits from the sale of gasoline. As such they may oppose the discretionary blending of gasoline with ethanol in excess of that mandated by law. Our competitors include plants owned by farmers who earn their livelihood through the sale of corn, and hence may not be as focused on obtaining optimal value for their produced ethanol as we are. Our business is dependent upon the availability and price of corn. Significant disruptions in the supply of corn will materially affect our operating results. In addition, since we generally cannot pass on increases in corn prices to our customers, continued periods of historically high corn prices will also materially adversely affect our operating results. The principal raw material we use to produce ethanol and ethanol by-products is corn. In 2007, we purchased approximately 71.9 million bushels of corn at a cost of $270.4 million, which comprised about 68% of our total cost of production. In 2007, our average corn cost ranged from a low of $3.19 per bushel in January 2007 to a high of $4.06 per bushel in June 2007. Corn prices began to rise significantly beginning in September 2006. We believe that a systemic shift has occurred in the marketplace for corn, and that price of corn will remain significantly higher than the historical average. The vast increase in U.S. ethanol capacity under construction could outpace increases in corn production, which may further increase corn prices and significantly impact our profitability. Changes in the price of corn have had an impact on our business. In general, higher corn prices produce lower profit margins and, therefore, represent unfavorable market conditions. This is especially true when market conditions do not allow us to pass along increased corn costs to our customers. At certain levels, corn prices may make ethanol uneconomical to use in markets and volumes above the requirements set forth in the renewable fuels standard or for which ethanol is used as an oxygenate in order to meet federal and state fuel emission standards. The price of corn is influenced by general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include weather conditions, farmer planting decisions, government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade and global demand and supply. The significance and relative impact of these factors on the price of corn is difficult to predict. Factors such as severe weather or crop disease could have an adverse impact on our business because we may be unable to pass on higher corn costs to our customers. Any event that tends to negatively impact the supply of corn will tend to increase prices and potentially harm our business. The increasing ethanol capacity could boost demand 23 for corn and result in increased prices for corn. We expect the price of corn to continue to remain at levels that would be considered as historically high. In an attempt to partially offset the effects of fluctuations in corn costs on operating income, we take hedging positions in the corn futures markets. However, these hedging transactions also involve risk to our business. See "Item 1A—Risk Factors—We engage in hedging transactions which involve risks that can harm our business." The spread between ethanol and corn prices can vary significantly and our profitability from gallons produced at our facilities is dependent on this spread. Gross profit on gallons produced at our facilities, which accounts for the substantial majority of our operating income, is principally dependent on the spread between ethanol and corn prices. The spread between ethanol and corn prices narrowed significantly in the second half of 2007 as ethanol prices fell while, at the same time, corn prices increased. Any reduction in the spread between ethanol and corn prices, whether as a result of an increase in corn prices or a reduction in ethanol prices, would adversely affect our financial performance. If the spread decreases below a certain level, we will likely experience losses. Growth in the sale and distribution of ethanol is dependent on the changes in and expansion of related infrastructure, which may not occur on a timely basis, if at all, and our operations could be adversely affected by infrastructure disruptions. Substantial development of infrastructure by persons and entities outside our control are required for our operations and the ethanol industry generally, to grow. Areas requiring expansion include, but are not limited to, additional rail capacity, additional storage facilities for ethanol, increases in truck fleets capable of transporting ethanol within localized markets, expansion of refining and blending facilities to handle ethanol, growth in service stations equipped to handle ethanol fuels, and growth in the fleet of flexible fuel vehicles capable of using E85 fuel. Substantial investments required for these infrastructure changes and expansions may not be made or they may not be made on a timely basis. Any delay or failure in making the changes in or expansion of infrastructure could hurt the demand or prices for our products, impede our delivery of products, impose additional costs on us or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business is dependent on the continuing availability of infrastructure and any infrastructure disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in the demand for gasoline may reduce demand for ethanol. Ethanol is marketed as an oxygenate to reduce vehicle emissions from gasoline, as an octane enhancer to improve the octane rating of gasoline with which it is blended and as a fuel extender. As a result, ethanol demand has historically been influenced by the supply of and demand for gasoline. If gasoline demand decreases, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. The use and demand for ethanol and its supply are highly dependent on various federal and state legislation and regulation, and any changes in legislation or regulation could cause the demand for ethanol to decline or its supply to increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Various federal and state laws, regulations and programs have led to increased use of ethanol in fuel. For example, certain laws, regulations and programs provide economic incentives to ethanol producers and users. Among these regulations are (1) the renewable fuels standard, which requires an increasing amount of renewable fuels to be used in the U.S. each year, (2) the VEETC, which provides a tax credit of 5.1 cents per gallon on 10% ethanol blends that is set to expire in 2010, (3) the small ethanol producer tax credit, for which we do not qualify because of the size of our ethanol plants, and 24 (4) the federal "farm bill," which establishes federal subsidies for agricultural commodities including corn, our primary feedstock. These laws, regulations and programs are constantly changing. Federal and state legislators and environmental regulators could adopt or modify laws, regulations or programs that could adversely affect the use of ethanol. In addition, certain state legislatures oppose the use of ethanol because they must ship ethanol in from other corn-producing states, which could significantly increase gasoline prices in the state. Waivers or repeal of the RFS minimum levels of renewable fuels included in gasoline could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Shortly after passage of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 in December 2007, which increased the minimum mandated required usage of ethanol, a Congressional sub-committee held hearings on the potential impact of the new RFS on commodity prices. While no action was taken by the sub-committee towards repeal of the new RFS, any attempt by Congress to re-visit, repeal or grant waivers from the new RFS could adversely affect demand for ethanol and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Certain countries can import ethanol into the U.S. duty free, which may undermine the ethanol industry in the U.S. Imported ethanol is generally subject to a $0.54 per gallon tariff and a 2.5% ad valorem tax that was designed to offset the $0.51 per gallon ethanol subsidy currently available under the federal excise tax incentive program for refineries and blenders that mix ethanol with their gasoline. On December 20, 2006, the tariff on foreign produced ethanol was extended until January 1, 2009. At a certain price level, imported ethanol may become profitable for sale in the U.S. despite the tariff. This occurred in 2006, due to a spike in the ethanol prices and insufficient supply. As a result, there may effectively be a ceiling on U.S. ethanol prices. This, combined with uncertainties surrounding U.S. producers ability to meet domestic demand, resulted in significant imports of ethanol, especially from Brazil. Furthermore, East Coast facilities are better suited to bringing in product by water rather than rail (the preferred path for ethanol from the Midwest). The combination made it more economic for some buyers to import ethanol with the full import duty than to bring supplies from the Midwest. Given the increase in ethanol demand as a result of the new RFS and potential transportation bottlenecks delivering material from the Midwest, imports of ethanol could rise. There is a special exemption from the tariff for ethanol imported from 24 countries in Central America and the Caribbean islands which is limited to a total of 7% of U.S. production per year (with additional exemptions for ethanol produced from feedstock in the Caribbean region over the 7% limit). In addition the NAFTA (The North America Free Trade Agreement which was signed into law January 1, 1994) countries, Canada and Mexico, are exempt from duty. See "Item 1—Business—Legislative Drivers and Governmental Regulations—The federal ethanol tax incentive program." Imports from the exempted countries have increased in recent years and are expected to increase further as a result of new plants under development. We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and permit conditions (and interpretations thereof), including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, and the health and safety of our employees. These laws, regulations, and permits require us to incur significant capital and other costs, including costs to obtain and maintain expensive pollution control equipment. They may also require us to make operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. A violation of these laws, regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, natural resource damages, criminal sanctions, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns. In addition, environmental laws and regulations (and interpretations thereof) change over 25 time, and any such changes, more vigorous enforcement policies or the discovery of currently unknown conditions may require substantial additional environmental expenditures. We are also subject to potential liability for the investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination at each of the properties that we own or operate and at off-site locations where we arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes. From time to time, hazardous material spills have occurred at our facilities or properties, which we investigate and remediate as necessary. Also, soil and groundwater contamination has been identified in the past at our Pekin, Illinois campus. If significant contamination is identified at our properties in the future, costs to investigate and remediate this contamination as well as any costs to investigate or remediate associated natural resource damages could be significant. If any of these sites are subject to investigation and/or remediation requirements, we may be responsible under CERCLA or other environmental laws for all or part of the costs of such investigation and/or remediation, and for damages to natural resources. We may also be subject to related claims by private parties alleging property damage or personal injury due to exposure to hazardous or other materials at or from such properties. We have not accrued any amounts for environmental matters as of December 31, 2007. The ultimate costs of any liabilities that may be identified or the discovery of additional contaminants could adversely impact our results of operation or financial condition. In addition, the hazards and risks associated with producing and transporting our products (such as fires, natural disasters, explosions, abnormal pressures and spills) may result in spills or releases of hazardous substances, and may result in claims from governmental authorities or third parties relating to actual or alleged personal injury, property damage, or damages to natural resources. We maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses caused by our operations. Our coverage includes, but is not limited to, physical damage to assets, employer's liability, comprehensive general liability, automobile liability and workers' compensation. We do not carry environmental insurance. We believe that our insurance is adequate for our industry, but losses could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of events which result in significant personal injury or damage to our property, natural resources or third parties that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our air emissions are subject to the federal Clean Air Act, as amended, and similar state laws which generally require us to obtain and maintain air emission permits for our ongoing operations as well as for any expansion of existing facilities or any new facilities. Obtaining and maintaining those permits requires us to incur costs, and any future more stringent standards may result in increased costs and may limit or interfere with our operating flexibility. These costs could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because other ethanol manufacturers in the U.S. are and will continue to be subject to similar laws and restrictions, we do not currently believe that our costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations will adversely affect our competitive position with other U.S. ethanol producers. However, because ethanol is produced and traded internationally, these costs could adversely affect us in our efforts to compete with foreign producers not subject to such stringent requirements. Federal and state environmental authorities have been investigating alleged excess VOC emissions and other air emissions from many U.S. ethanol plants, including our Illinois and Nebraska facilities. The matter relating to our Illinois wet mill facility is still pending, and we could be required to install costly additional air pollution control equipment or take other measures to control air pollutant emissions at that facility. In addition, if the authorities determine our emissions were in violation of applicable law, we would likely be required to pay fines that could be material. In February 2008, we received an indemnification payment from the former owner of our Nebraska facility relating to the cost of installing environmental controls at that facility related to an April 2005 consent decree with state authorities. 26 We have made, and expect to continue making, significant capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with increasingly stringent environmental laws, regulations and permits. In 2007, we spent approximately $5.8 million on these types of matters. We expect to have to eventually make significant capital expenditures to comply with the EPA's final National Emissions Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants, or NESHAP, under the federal Clean Air Act for industrial, commercial and institutional boilers and process heaters. This NESHAP was issued but subsequently vacated. The vacated version of the rule required us to implement maximum achievable control technology at our Illinois wet mill facility to reduce hazardous air pollutant emissions from certain of our boilers and process heaters. We expect the EPA will revise the rule to impose more stringent requirements than were contained in the vacated version. In the absence of a final EPA NESHAP for industrial, commercial and institutional boilers and process heaters, we are working with state authorities to determine what technology will be required at our Illinois wet mill facility and when such technology must be installed. We currently cannot estimate the amount that will be needed to comply with any future federal or state technology requirement regarding air emissions from boilers and process heaters. We currently generate revenue from the sale of carbon dioxide, which is a co-product of the ethanol production process at each of our facilities. New laws or regulations relating to the production, disposal or emissions of carbon dioxide may require us to incur significant additional costs and may also adversely affect our ability to continue generating revenue from carbon dioxide sales. In particular, in 2007, Illinois and four other Midwestern States entered into the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord, which program directs participating states to develop a multi-sector cap-and-trade mechanism to help achieve reductions in greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide. It is possible this program could require carbon dioxide emissions reductions from our Pekin, Illinois plants, which could result in significant costs. In addition, it is possible that other states in which we conduct or plan to conduct business, including Nebraska and Indiana, could join this accord or require other costly carbon dioxide emissions reductions. We may engage in hedging or derivative transactions which involve risks that can harm our business. In an attempt to minimize the effects of the volatility of the price of corn, natural gas, electricity and ethanol ("commodities"), we may take hedging positions in the commodities. Hedging arrangements also expose us to the risk of financial loss in situations where the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract or there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price of the commodities. Although we attempt to link our hedging activities to sales plans and pricing activities, occasionally such hedging activities can themselves result in losses. There can be no assurance that such losses will not occur. Alternatively, we may choose not to engage in hedging transactions in the future. As a result, our results of operations may be adversely affected during periods in which corn and/or natural gas prices increase. We are substantially dependent on our three facilities and our alliance partner facilities and any operational disruption could result in a reduction of our sales volumes and could cause us to incur substantial expenditures. The substantial majority of our net income is derived from the sale of ethanol and the related bio-products and co-products that we produce at our Illinois facilities and our Nebraska facility. Our operations may be subject to significant interruption if either of the Illinois facilities or Nebraska facility experiences a major accident or is damaged by severe weather or other natural disaster. In addition, our operations may be subject to labor disruptions and unscheduled downtime, or other hazards inherent in our industry. Some of those hazards may cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension or termination of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. As protection against these hazards we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance 27 which we believe is in accordance with customary industry practices, but we cannot provide any assurance that this insurance will be adequate to fully cover the potential hazards described above or that we will be able to renew this insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any disruptions at our alliance partners' facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We agree through our alliance partner agreements to purchase all fuel grade ethanol produced by our alliance partners and title to the product transfers to us when product is loaded. Any disruptions at the alliance partners' facilities could affect our ability to meet our customers' demands. As a result of a disruption at an alliance facility we may have to purchase ethanol from the spot market. The market for natural gas is subject to market conditions that create uncertainty in the price and availability of the natural gas that we utilize in our manufacturing process. We rely upon third parties for our supply of natural gas which is consumed in the production of ethanol. The prices for and availability of natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by factors beyond our control such as weather conditions (including hurricanes), overall economic conditions and foreign and domestic governmental regulation and relations. Significant disruptions in the supply of natural gas could temporarily impair our ability to produce ethanol for our customers. Further, increases in natural gas prices or changes in our natural gas costs relative to natural gas costs paid by competitors may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The price fluctuation in natural gas prices over the eight year period from 1999 through December 31, 2007, based on the New York Mercantile Exchange, or Nymex, daily futures data, has ranged from a low of $1.63 per MMBtu in 1999 to a high of $15.38 per MMBtu in December 2005. We currently use approximately 3.7 million MMBtu's of natural gas annually, depending upon business conditions, in the manufacture of our products. Our usage of natural gas will increase with the planned expansion of our production facilities. In an attempt to minimize the effects of fluctuations in natural gas costs on operating income, we may take hedging positions in the natural gas futures markets; however, these hedging transactions also involve risk to our operations. Since natural gas prices are volatile should we not take hedging positions, as occurs from time to time, our results could be adversely affected by an increase in natural gas prices. See "—We may engage in hedging transactions which involve risks that can harm our business." Our fixed price and gasoline related contracts for ethanol may be at a price level lower than the prevailing price. At any given time, our contract prices for ethanol may be at a price level different from the current prevailing price, and such a difference could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These contracts typically provide for delivery from one month to one year later. As of December 31, 2007 we had contracted to sell 62.8 million gallons of ethanol at an average fixed price of $1.78. We have also contracted to sell 72.7 million gallons of ethanol at an average negative spread of $0.45 per gallon to the wholesale value of gasoline at the time of delivery and 172.1 million gallons of ethanol at the spot price at the time of delivery. These contracts provide for delivery throughout 2008, but they are heavily weighted towards the first and second quarters of 2008. Changes in ethanol prices can affect the value of our inventory which may significantly affect our profitability. Our distribution system allows us to carry an inventory of ethanol to better serve our customers and to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. Our inventory is valued based upon a weighted average price we pay for ethanol that we purchase from our marketing alliance partners and our purchase/resale transactions, along with our own cost to produce ethanol. We occasionally increase 28 our inventory, in order to profit when we believe market prices will rise. Changes, either upward or downward, in our purchased cost of ethanol or our own production costs, will cause the inventory value to fluctuate from period to period, perhaps significantly. These changes in value flow through our statement of operations as the inventory is sold and can significantly increase or decrease our profitability. We depend on rail, truck and barge transportation for delivery of corn to us and the distribution of ethanol to our customers. We depend on rail, truck and barge to deliver corn to us and to distribute ethanol to the terminals currently in our network. Ethanol is not currently distributed by pipeline. Disruption to the timely supply of these transportation services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including the availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, or labor stoppages in the transportation industry, could have an adverse effect on our ability to supply corn to our production facilities or to distribute ethanol to our terminals, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. We are contractually obligated to complete certain capacity expansions in Aurora, Nebraska and Mount Vernon, Indiana. If we fail to complete them in a timely manner we may be subject to material penalties. We are contractually obligated to develop both a 113 million gallon plant adjacent to our Nebraska facility (using commercially reasonable best efforts to obtain a permit for 226 million gallon capacity) and a 226 million gallon plant in Mount Vernon, Indiana. In addition, we are obligated to add an additional 113 million gallons of capacity through a phase II expansion in Mt. Vernon, Indiana, and would be subject to material penalties if we do not. We may be subject to material penalties if we do not timely complete the initial 113 million gallon "phase I" of the Aurora Expansion or either the initial "phase I" or the second 113 million gallon "phase II" of the Mt. Vernon expansion. If phase I of the Aurora plant is not completed and fully operational by July 1, 2009 we will be responsible for liquidated damages of $138,889 per month (up to a maximum of $5 million) until the plant is fully operational. If we do not pay these damages, the counterparty has the right to repurchase the property at cost (subject to adjustment for any expenses which we have paid with respect to infrastructure construction). We recently amended our lease with the Indiana Port Commission to provide additional flexibility as to the timing of the phase II expansion at Mt. Vernon. This lease, as amended, requires substantial completion of phase I (an initial 110 million gallons of capacity) by March 1, 2009 and substantial completion of phase II (an additional 110 million gallons of capacity) by January 1, 2011, subject in the case of the phase II to specified extension rights. If we do not achieve these milestones, the State may, subject to specified cure rights, take over construction and complete the facility at our expense. In addition, if we fail to achieve these milestones we will, subject to specified cure rights or our ability to negotiate an extension, be in default under our lease and the State may also, at its election, (i) without terminating the lease re-let the premises to a third party and charge us for any necessary repairs and alternations, (ii) without terminating the lease, require us pay all amounts we are obligated to pay under the lease as they become payable, less any amount received from any re-letting of the premises or (iii) terminate the lease. If the State terminates the lease it can require that we pay liquidated damages in the amount by which the lease payments we are obligated to make under the lease exceed the fair and reasonable rental value of the premises, each discounted to present value (but in no event being less than two years of basic rent and minimum guaranteed wharfage under the lease). In addition, upon any termination or expiration of the lease, the State does not have to pay us for the value of the plant or any other improvements that we made to the premises and can require us to restore the leased premises to their original condition at our cost and expense. In addition, under the design build agreements for the initial 113 million gallon capacity expansion at each of Mt Vernon and Aurora, we have the ability to delay construction by up to 180 days. If we do so, we will be responsible for certain 29 increased costs and foregone profit of the contractor (potentially including an early completion bonus). If we were to delay construction beyond 180 days the contractor would be entitled to treat the delay as a termination by us for convenience and we would be responsible for certain costs and expenses of the contractor in connection with such termination as well as a termination fee of 1% of the total EPC contract sum. Consumer resistance to the use of ethanol may affect the demand for ethanol, which could affect our ability to market our product. Media reports in the mainstream press indicate that some consumers believe the use of ethanol will have a negative impact on retail gasoline prices or is the reason for increases in food prices. Many also believe that ethanol adds to air pollution and harms car and truck engines. Still other consumers believe that the process of producing ethanol actually uses more fossil energy, such as oil and natural gas, than the amount of energy produced by ethanol. These consumer beliefs could be wide-spread in the future. If consumers choose not to buy ethanol blended fuels, it would affect the demand for the ethanol we produce which could lower demand for our product and negatively affect our profitability. Various studies have criticized the efficiency of ethanol, which could lead to the reduction or repeal of incentives and tariffs that promote the use and domestic production of ethanol. Although many trade groups, academics and governmental agencies have supported ethanol as a fuel additive that promotes a cleaner environment, others have criticized ethanol production as consuming considerably more energy and emitting more greenhouse gases than other biofuels. In particular, two February 2008 studies conclude the current production of corn-based ethanol results in more greenhouse gas emissions than conventional fuels if both direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, including those resulting from land use changes resulting from planting crops for ethanol feedstocks, are taken into account. Other studies have suggested that corn-based ethanol is less efficient than ethanol produced from switch grass or wheat grain. If these views gain acceptance, support for existing measures promoting use and domestic production of corn-based ethanol could decline, leading to reduction or repeal of these measures. Research is currently underway to develop production of biobutanol, a product that could directly compete with ethanol and may have more potential advantages than ethanol. Biobutanol, an advanced biofuel produced from agricultural feedstock, is currently being developed by various parties, including a partnership between British Petroleum and DuPont. According to the partnership, biobutanol has many advantages over ethanol. The advantages include: low vapor pressure, making it more easily added to gasoline; energy content closer to that of gasoline, such that the decrease in fuel economy caused by the blending of biobutanol with gasoline is less than that of other biofuels when blended with gasoline; it can be blended at higher concentration than other biofuels for use in standard vehicles; it is less susceptible to separation when water is present than in pure ethanol-gasoline blends; and it is expected to be potentially suitable for transportation in gas pipelines, resulting in a possible cost advantage over ethanol producers relying on rail transportation. Although British Petroleum and DuPont have not announced a timeline for producing biobutanol on a large scale, if biobutanol production comes online in the United States, biobutonal could have a competitive advantage over ethanol and could make it more difficult to market our ethanol, which could reduce our ability to generate revenue and profits such that you could lose some or all of your investment. We, and some of our major customers, have unionized employees and could be adversely affected by labor disputes. Some of our employees and some employees of our major customers are unionized. At December 31, 2007, approximately 51% of our employees were unionized. Our unionized employees are hourly workers located at our Illinois facilities. The unionized employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement between our subsidiary, Aventine Renewable Energy, Inc. and the United 30 Steelworkers International Union, Local 7-662, that expires in June 2009. Any labor dispute by any of our employees, or our customers' employees, could again have a significant negative effect on our financial results and operations. We depend on our marketing alliance contracts for a majority of the gallons we sell and significant synergies. We may be adversely affected by decreases in marketing alliance volumes resulting from the acquisition of marketing alliance partners by our competitors, the reduction of production capacity or abandonment of announced projects by marketing alliance partners, the creation of similar marketing alliances by our competitors and other failures to renew marketing alliance contracts. We source a significant amount of the ethanol that we sell from our marketing alliance partners. Although their contribution to our operating income is limited, these marketing alliance contracts contribute significantly to our market presence and enable us to meet major ethanol consumer needs and leverage our marketing expertise and distribution systems. Our marketing alliance contracts typically have a two year term and automatically renew for additional one year terms unless either party elects to terminate in advance. Over the past several years a number of marketing alliance partners have elected not to renew their marketing alliance contracts for a variety of reasons, including the acquisition of the marketing alliance partner by a competitor, the marketing alliance partner's view that it could reduce freight costs by marketing its ethanol outside of our marketing alliance and the creation of similar marketing alliances by our competitors. We cannot give assurance that we will be able to renew our existing marketing alliance contracts or enter into similar contracts with other ethanol producers. In addition, the substantial majority of our projected marketing alliance gallons relate to projects to construct ethanol production facilities that have been announced but construction has not commenced. Given current industry and financial market conditions it is uncertain whether any or all of these plants will be built as scheduled or at all. Accordingly, we may be unable to realize our anticipated growth in marketing alliance volumes and the related benefits. We have a significant stockholder whose interests may differ from your interests and who may be able to exert significant influence over corporate decisions of the Company. Through their ownership of Aventine Holdings LLC, the MSCP funds beneficially own approximately 28.2% of our outstanding common stock. Metalmark Subadvisor LLC, an affiliate of Metalmark, an independent private equity firm established by former principals of Morgan Stanley Capital Partners, manages certain MSCP funds on a sub-advisory basis. In January 2008 substantially all of the employees of Metalmark became employees of Citi Alternative Investments Inc., although Metalmark remains an independent entity owned by those individuals and continues to manage the applicable MSCP funds on a sub-advisory basis. Two of our directors, Messrs. Abramson and Hoffman, currently are employees of both Metalmark and Citigroup. As a result, Metalmark may be deemed to control our management and policies. Metalmark may have an interest in pursuing transactions that, in their judgment, enhance the value of the applicable funds' equity investment in our Company, even though those transactions may involve risks to you as a stockholder. In addition, circumstances could arise under which the interests of Metalmark could be in conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. For example, Metalmark has and may in the future make significant investments in other companies, some of which may be competitors. Metalmark is not obligated to advise us of any investment or business opportunities of which they are aware, and they are not restricted or prohibited from competing with us. 31 Our less than 100% ownership of Nebraska Energy, LLC ("NELLC") and the supermajority provisions contained in the operating agreement that governs NELLC may restrict our ability to govern and manage our business. We own 78.4% of NELLC which owns our Nebraska facility. The other 21.6% is owned by Nebraska Energy Cooperative, an agricultural cooperative comprised of over 200 corn producers. NELLC is governed by an operating agreement which, among other things, requires a vote of holders of at least 80% of the outstanding member interests before NELLC may undertake certain actions, including, but not limited to the following: •loans or advances to or investments in any other person, other than in the ordinary course of business; •acquisitions of capital assets or other capital expenditures during any taxable year in excess of certain specified thresholds; •the sale, lease or disposition of the property having a fair market value in excess of certain specified thresholds; •borrowings (including under capitalized leases, but excluding trade payables in the ordinary course of business) or the grant or creation of any security interest or other lien on any of NELLC's property; •the guarantee or assumption of any liability or obligation of any person, except in the ordinary course of business; •except as provided in the operating agreement, the acquisition of any member's interests in NELLC by redemption or otherwise; •the engagement of any member or affiliate of any member to provide any services or perform any functions to or for NELLC (such as renting office space, providing accounting services, providing self-insurance or allocations of any member overhead to NELLC); and •any transaction not in the "ordinary course of business or affairs" or "in the usual way of business and affairs" of NELLC. The operating agreement also contains provisions which require NELLC to obtain the approval of holders of at least 80% of the membership interests in order to distribute an amount in excess of 60% of its annual taxable income (as defined in the operating agreement). These provisions may limit our ability to quickly and adequately respond to changes in the business environment and may restrict our ability to manage the NELLC facility in a manner that benefits our Company as a whole. For example, we may not be able to access additional financing unless we can obtain the guarantee of NELLC or a pledge of its assets, and the other members of NELLC may not approve such a guarantee or pledge. These provisions limit our ability to transfer cash from the NELLC to meet our obligations. The relationship between the sales price of our co-products and the price we pay for corn can fluctuate significantly which may affect our results of operations and profitability. We sell co-products and bio-products that are remnants of the ethanol production process in order to reduce our costs and increase profitability. Historically, sales prices for these co-products have tracked along with the price of corn. However, there have been occasions when the value of these co-products and bio-products has lagged behind increases in corn prices. As a result, we may occasionally generate less revenue from the sale of these co-products and bio-products relative to the price of corn. In addition, several of our co-products compete with similar products made from other plant feedstock. The cost of these other feedstocks may not have risen as corn prices have risen. 32 Consequently, the price we may receive for these products may not rise as corn prices rise, thereby lowering our cost recovery percentage relative to corn. Due to recent and planned industry increases in U.S. dry mill ethanol production, the production of DDGS in the U.S. has increased dramatically, and this trend may continue. This may cause DDGS prices to fall in the U.S., unless demand increases or other market sources are found. To date, demand for DDGS in the U.S. has increased roughly in proportion to supply. We believe this is because U.S. farmers use DDGS as a feedstock, and DDGS are slightly less expensive than corn, for which it is a substitute. However, if prices for DDGS in the U.S. fall, it may have an adverse effect on our business, which might be material. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by technological advances. The development and implementation of new technologies may result in a significant reduction in the costs of ethanol production. We cannot predict when new technologies may become available, the rate of acceptance of new technologies by our competitors or the costs associated with such new technologies. In addition, advances in the development of alternatives to ethanol, or corn ethanol in particular, could significantly reduce demand for or eliminate the need for ethanol, or corn ethanol in particular, as a fuel oxygenate or octane enhancer. Any advances in technology which require significant capital expenditures for us to remain competitive or which otherwise reduce demand for ethanol will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The requirements of complying with the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may strain our resources and distract management. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including Section 404. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, corporate governance standards and internal controls over financial reporting. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our management has delivered a report that assesses the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight may be required as we have to devote additional time and personnel to legal, financial and accounting activities to ensure our ongoing compliance with public company reporting requirements. This may cause management's attention to be diverted away from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, in order to remain in compliance, we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge, and might not be able to do so in a timely fashion. The loss of any of our major customers could adversely affect our revenue and financial health. In 2007 and 2006, our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 67% and 75%, respectively, of gallons sold. If we were to lose any of our relationships with these customers, our revenue, and results of operations and financial condition might suffer. Risks associated with the operation of our production facilities may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our revenue is dependent on the continued operation of our various production facilities. The operation of production plants involves many risks including: •the breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment or processes; 33 •inclement weather and natural disasters; •the need to comply with directives of, and maintain all necessary permits from, governmental agencies; •raw material supply disruptions; •labor force shortages, work stoppages, or other labor difficulties; and •transportation disruptions. The occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to the above events, may have an adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular facility, or to us as a whole. For example, during the second half of 2007, we experienced operational issues at our Pekin, Illinois wet mill. These operational issues reduced the amount of ethanol and co-products produced by this facility during that time period. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our ability to operate effectively may be impaired. Our ability to operate our business and implement strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. Our management philosophy of cost-control means that we operate with a limited number of corporate personnel, and our commitment to a less centralized organization also places greater emphasis on the strength of local management. Our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel, particularly executive management. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel, domestically or abroad, could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects. If our internal computer network and applications suffer disruptions or fail to operate as designed, our operations will be disrupted and our business may be harmed. We rely on network infrastructure and enterprise applications, and internal technology systems for our operational, marketing support and sales, and product development activities. The hardware and software systems related to such activities are subject to damage from earthquakes, floods, lightning, tornadoes, fire, power loss, telecommunication failures and other similar events. They are also subject to acts such as computer viruses, physical or electronic vandalism or other similar disruptions that could cause system interruptions and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from fulfilling our customers' orders. We have developed disaster recovery plans and backup systems to reduce the potentially adverse effects of such events, but there are no assurances such plans and systems would be sufficient. Any event that causes failures or interruption in our hardware or software systems could result in disruption of our business operations, have a negative impact on our operating results, and damage our reputation. We and our subsidiaries are able to incur substantial debt. This could further exacerbate the risks that we and our subsidiaries face. We and our subsidiaries are able to incur substantial indebtedness in the future. Our planned capacity increases require us to incur substantial additional indebtedness. If new debt is added, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify. Any acquisitions or developments we complete could dilute your ownership interest in us or have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operating results. The integration of any acquisition or facility development into our business may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. Future acquisitions or facility developments may involve the issuance of our equity securities as 34 payment or in connection with financing the business or assets acquired. Consummating these transactions could also result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense, as well as unforeseen liabilities, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, other marketing alliances exist and additional alliances may be formed which would compete to market production, including production of our current marketing alliance partners. These competing alliances could persuade our current partners not to renew their agreements or could cause the terms of future contracts to be less favorable to us. If we lose marketing partners to competing marketing alliances or are unable to add new producers to our alliance, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: •quarterly variations in our operating results; •changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; •failure to meet analysts' or our own revenue or earnings estimates; •speculation in the press or investment community; •strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; •the impact of the risks discussed herein and our ability to react effectively to those risks; •limited trading volume of our common stock; •a change in technology that may add to production costs; •actions by institutional stockholders; •general market conditions; and •domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Limited trading volume of our common stock may contribute to its price volatility. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. For the period of January 3, 2007 to December 31, 2007, the average daily trading volume of our common stock as reported by Bloomberg L.P. was approximately 860,000 shares. It is uncertain whether a more active trading market in our common stock will develop. If analysts were to discontinue coverage of our common stock, our trading volume may be further reduced. As a result, relatively small trades could potentially have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, which could increase the volatility and depress the price of our stock. Future sales of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our ability to raise capital in the equity markets. In the future, we may sell additional shares of our common stock in public or private offerings, and we may also issue additional shares of common stock to finance future acquisitions. Shares of our common stock are also available for future sales pursuant to stock options and/or restricted stock that we have granted to certain employees and directors, and in the future we may grant additional stock 35 options and/or restricted stock to our employees and directors. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for shares of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and in other agreements may delay or prevent an acquisition of Aventine, which could decrease the value of our common stock. Provisions in our amended certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware corporate law and our stockholder rights plan may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include a classified board of directors, removal of directors only for cause, and the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings. Although we believe these provisions provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved comments. 36 