Risk Factors — Risks Relating to the PRC – We may be subject to PRC income tax on our global income, or dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiary may be subject to PRC withholding tax, depending on whether we are recognized as a resident enterprise in the PRC.” If we are recognized as a qualified PRC resident enterprise, the dividends we receive from our subsidiaries in the PRC will not be subject to any withholding tax. However, our dividends payable to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders would be subject to withholding tax under the New EIT Law. If dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiaries or dividends payable to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders are subject to withholding tax under the New EIT Law, or if non-PRC foreign shareholders and ADS holders are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of their ordinary shares or ADSs, the value of your investment may be materially reduced. Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws, rules and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. Although legislation in the PRC over the past 30 years has significantly improved the protection afforded to various forms of foreign investment and contractual arrangements in the PRC, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties, which could limit the legal protection available to us and foreign investors, including you. In addition, the PRC government may enact new laws or amend current laws that may be detrimental to our current contractual arrangements with Beijing AirInbox, Beijing WINT, Beijing Chengxitong, BJXR, Mailifang, Xinreli and Dacheng, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. - 29 - You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process and enforcing judgments against us and our management. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, and our subsidiary and substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. In addition, most of our Directors and officers and their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon our Directors or officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. Federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Our PRC legal counsel, King & Wood, has advised us that the PRC does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States, the United Kingdom or most other Western countries. As a result, recognition and enforcement in the PRC of judgments of a court obtained in those jurisdictions may be difficult or impossible. We have been advised by Maples and Calder, our Cayman Islands legal advisers, that although there is no statutory enforcement in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, or any state thereof, a judgment obtained in the United States, or any state thereof, will be recognized and enforced in the courts of the Cayman Islands under common law, without any re-examination of the merits of the underlying dispute, by an action commenced on the foreign judgment debt in the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands, provided that such judgment (i) was given by a foreign court of competent jurisdiction; (ii) imposes on the debtor a liability to pay a liquidated sum for which the judgment has been given; (iii) is final; (iv) is not in respect of taxes, a fine or a penalty; and (v) was not obtained in a manner and is not of a kind of enforcement that is contrary to natural justice or the public policy of the Cayman Islands. Any future outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, avian influenza or any other epidemic in the PRC may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. From December 2002 to June 2003, the PRC and certain other countries experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia that became known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. On July 5, 2003, the World Health Organization declared that SARS had been contained. However, after this declaration, a number of isolated new cases of SARS have been reported, most recently in central PRC in April 2004. In addition, in recent years, a number of Asian and European countries, including the PRC, have reported cases of humans being infected with a strain of avian influenza or bird flu known as H5N1, which is often fatal to humans. Any outbreak of any of these diseases or other highly dangerous communicable diseases in the PRC in the future may severely disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, health or other government regulations may require temporary closure of our offices, or the offices of our advertisers, content providers or partners, which may also severely disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of SARS, bird flu or any other epidemic. 