risk factors and all other information contained in this Report. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of the events described in these risks. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal and disclosure controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities. Effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We continually review and analyze our internal control over financial reporting for Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance. As part of that process we discovered and disclosed material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in our internal control. Material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected in a timely basis. Significant deficiency is a deficiency or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for the oversight of the Company's financial reporting. As a result of weaknesses that may be identified in our internal control, we may also identify certain deficiencies in some of our disclosure controls and procedures that we believe require remediation. If we discover weaknesses, we will make efforts to improve our internal and disclosure 32 Table of Contents control. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful. Any failure to maintain effective controls or timely effect any necessary improvement of our internal and disclosure controls could harm operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could affect our ability to remain listed with The NASDAQ Global Select Market. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. If a significant number of clients fail to perform under their loans, our business, profitability, and financial condition would be adversely affected. As a lender, one of the largest risks we face is the possibility that a significant number of our client borrowers will fail to pay their loans when due. If borrower defaults cause losses in excess of our allowance for loan losses, it could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability, and financial condition. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. Although this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of loan losses are dependent to a great extent on our experience and judgment. Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is at a level adequate to absorb any inherent losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot assure you that we will not further increase the allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Increases in the level of non-performing loans could adversely affect our business, profitability, and financial condition. Increase in non-performing loans could have an adverse effect on our earnings as a result of related increases in our provisions for loan losses, charge-offs, and other losses related to non-performing loans. The increase in non-performing loans and resulting decline in earnings could deplete our capital, leaving the Company undercapitalized. As a result of downturns in the economy in recent years and a material weakness discovered in our internal controls over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2010, our non-performing loans have increased from $15.6 million at the end of 2008, to $70.8 million at the end of 2009, and to $71.2 million at the end of 2010. Delinquent loans, or loans still accruing but past due by 30 days or more, totaled $34.5 million at December 31, 2010, representing a decrease of $6.2 million, or 15.2%, from December 31, 2009. In 2010 management took proactive actions to reduce non-performing and other problem assets through the sale of commercial real estate loans. However, while the sale of problems loans effectively improves the credit quality of the loan portfolio, losses associated with sale of loans at a discount can result in increased charge-offs and provision for loan losses and thereby reduces earnings and capital. In 2010, approximately 49.1% of total charge-offs were related to the sale of commercial real estate loans. Increases in our allowance for loan losses could materially affect our earnings adversely. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. Our allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. However, actual loan losses could increase significantly as the result of changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which are generally beyond our control. In addition, actual loan losses could increase significantly as a result of deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting. Thus, such losses could exceed our current allowance estimates. Either of these occurrences could materially affect our earnings adversely. In addition, the FDIC and the DFI, as an integral part of their respective supervisory functions, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. Such regulatory agencies may require us to increase our provision for losses on loans and loan commitments or to recognize further loan charge-offs, based 33 Table of Contents upon judgments different from those of management. Any increase in our allowance required by the FDIC or the DFI could adversely affect us. Banking organizations are subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. A major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and other borrowings, and the interest rates we receive on interest-earning assets, such as loans we extend to our clients and securities held in our investment portfolio. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. In 2008, Federal Reserve Board reduced the federal funds rate seven times. As of January 1, 2008, the federal funds rate was 4.25%. By December 11, 2008, the federal funds rate had been reduced to current rate of 0.00% to 0.25%. The series of reductions in the federal funds rate during 2008 effectively lowered our average interest rate for 2008 and 2009. Because of the declining national economy and continued financial crisis, the credit markets are lacking liquidity. While the federal funds rate and other short-term market interest rates decreased substantially, the intermediate and long-term market interest rates, which are used by many banking organizations to guide loan pricing, have not decreased proportionately. This has led to a "steepening" of the market yield curve with short-term rates considerably lower than long-term notes. We cannot assure you that we will be able to minimize our interest rate risk. In addition, while a decrease in the general level of interest rates may improve the ability of certain borrowers with variable rate loans to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations, it reduces our interest income, and may lead to an increase in competition among banks for deposits. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, net interest margin and our overall profitability. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations, meet our obligations as they become due and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. Liquidity risk is the potential that the Bank will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory actions against us. Market conditions or other events could also negatively affect the level or cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. Although management has implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in assets and liabilities under both normal and adverse conditions, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 34 Table of Contents The profitability of Wilshire Bancorp is dependent on the profitability of the Bank. Because Wilshire Bancorp's principal activity is to act as the holding company of the Bank, the profitability of Wilshire Bancorp is largely dependent on the profitability of the Bank. The Bank operates in an extremely competitive banking environment, competing with a number of banks and other financial institutions which possess greater financial resources than those available to the Bank, in addition to other independent banks. In addition, the banking business is affected by general economic and political conditions, both domestic and international, and by government monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international terrorism and other disorders as well as other factors beyond the control of the Bank may adversely affect its profitability. Banks are also subject to extensive governmental supervision, regulation and control, and future legislation and government policy could adversely affect the banking industry and the operations of the Bank. Wilshire Bancorp relies heavily on the payment of dividends from the Bank. The Bank is the only source of significant income for Wilshire Bancorp. Accordingly, the ability of Wilshire Bancorp to meet its debt service requirements and to pay dividends depends on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to it. However, the Bank is subject to regulations limiting the amount of dividends that it may pay to Wilshire Bancorp. For example, any payment of dividends by the Bank is subject to the FDIC's capital adequacy guidelines. All banks and bank holding companies are required to maintain a minimum ratio of qualifying total capital to total risk-weighted assets of 8.00%, at least one-half of which must be in the form of Tier 1 capital, and a ratio of Tier 1 capital to average adjusted assets of 4.00%. If (i) the FDIC increases any of these required ratios; (ii) the total of risk-weighted assets of the Bank increases significantly; and/or (iii) the Bank's income decreases significantly, the Bank's Board of Directors may decide or be required to retain a greater portion of the Bank's earnings to achieve and maintain the required capital or asset ratios. This will reduce the amount of funds available for the payment of dividends by the Bank to Wilshire Bancorp. Further, in some cases, the FDIC could take the position that it has the power to prohibit the Bank from paying dividends if, in its view, such payments would constitute unsafe or unsound banking practices. In addition, whether dividends are paid and their frequency and amount will depend on the financial condition and performance, and the discretion of the Board of Directors of the Bank. The foregoing restrictions on dividends paid by the Bank may limit Wilshire Bancorp's ability to obtain funds from such dividends for its cash needs, including funds for payment of its debt service requirements and operating expenses and for payment of cash dividends to Wilshire Bancorp's shareholders. The amount of dividends the Bank could pay to Wilshire Bancorp as of December 31, 2010 without prior regulatory approval, which is limited by statute to the sum of undivided profits for the current year plus net profits for the preceding two years (less any distributions made to shareholders during such periods), was -$7.3 million, and therefore no dividends can be paid without regulatory approval. The holders of recently issued debentures and Series A Preferred Stock have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. In December 2002, the Bank issued an aggregate of $10 million of Junior Subordinated Debentures, at times referred to in this Report as the 2002 Junior Subordinated Debentures or the 2002 debentures. In addition, in the past three years, Wilshire Bancorp, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank in 2003 and as a parent company of the Bank in 2005 and 2007, issued an aggregate of $77,321,000 of Junior Subordinated Debentures as part of the issuance of $75,000,000 in trust preferred securities by statutory trusts wholly-owned by Wilshire Bancorp. The purpose of these transactions was to raise additional capital. These Junior Subordinated Debentures are senior in liquidation rights to our outstanding shares of common stock and our Series A Preferred Stock. The terms of these Junior Subordinated Debentures also restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock at any time we 35 Table of Contents are in default under, or with respect to the Junior Subordinated Debentures issued in 2003, 2005 or 2007, have exercised our right to defer interest payments under the indentures governing these Junior Subordinated Debentures. As a result, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holder of these Junior Subordinated Debentures must be paid in full before any liquidating distributions may be made to the holders of our common and preferred stock. If we default under the terms of these Junior Subordinated Debentures or utilize our right to defer interest payments on the Junior Subordinated Debentures issued in 2003, 2005 or 2007, no dividends may be paid to holders of our common and preferred stock for so long as we remain in default or have deferred amounts remaining unpaid. On December 12, 2008, the Company issued $62,158,000 in Series A Preferred Stock and a warrant to the U.S. Treasury as part of the U.S. Treasury's Capital Purchase Program or "CPP". This $62.2 million investment from the U.S. Treasury, which is commonly referred to as Troubled Assets Relief Program ("TARP") investment, was part of the government strategy to counter the ongoing financial crisis and the possible prolonged economic downturn. The TARP investment was made to us in exchange for our 62,158 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock and a warrant to purchase initially 949,460 shares of our common stock. The preferred shareholder, the U.S. Treasury, has preference with respect to dividends and liquidation over our common shareholders. Similar to the Junior Subordinated Debentures, if we default the payment of dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock, no dividends may be paid to holders of our common stock for so long as we remain in default or have deferred amounts remaining unpaid. Because we are substantially dependent on dividends from the Bank in order to make the periodic payments due under the terms of the Junior Subordinated Debentures issued in 2003, 2005 and 2007, and the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock issued in 2008, in the event that the Bank is unable to pay dividends to Wilshire Bancorp for any significant period of time, then we may be unable to pay the amounts due to the holders of these Junior Subordinated Debentures and the U.S. Treasury. Currently, the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company without prior regulatory approval. If such approval is withheld, then the Company may not have sufficient funds with which to pay the amounts due to the holders of the Junior Subordinated Debentures and the U.S. Treasury. Our failure to meet the challenges of successfully integrating the acquired Mirae Bank could potentially harm the operations of our combined organization. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating the acquired Mirae assets with ours or otherwise to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition could harm the results of operations of our combined organization. The integration of the business of two banks can be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that, without proper planning and implementation, could disrupt our business. The challenges involved in this integration include the following: •Demonstrating to the customers of Mirae Bank and the customers of Wilshire State Bank that the acquisition will not result in adverse changes in client service standards or business focus and helping customers conduct business easily with the combined banks; •Consolidating and rationalizing corporate information technology and administrative infrastructures; •Coordinating sales and marketing efforts and strategies to effectively communicate the capabilities of the combined organization, especially to former Mirae Bank customers; •Persuading employees that the business cultures of Wilshire State Bank and the former Mirae Bank are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees; and 36 Table of Contents Income that we recognized and continue to recognize in connection with our 2009 FDIC-assisted Mirae Bank acquisition may be non-recurring or finite in duration. On June 26, 2009, we acquired the banking operations of Mirae Bank from the FDIC. Through the acquisition, we acquired approximately $395.6 million of assets and assumed $374.0 million of liabilities. The Mirae Bank acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting and we recorded a bargain purchase gain totaling $21.7 million as a result of the acquisition. This gain was included as a component of noninterest income on our statement of income for 2009. The amount of the gain was equal to the amount by which the fair value of assets purchased exceeded the fair value of liabilities. The bargain purchase gain resulting from the acquisition was a one-time, extraordinary gain that is not expected to be repeated in future periods. In addition, the loans that we acquired from Mirae Bank were acquired at a $54.9 million discount. This discount is amortized and accreted to interest income on a monthly basis. However, as these loans are paid-off, charged-off, sold, or transferred to non-accrual status, the income from the discount accretion is reduced. As the acquired loans are removed from our books, the related discount will no longer be available for accretion into income. During 2009, accretion of $6.7 million on loans purchased at a discount was recorded as interest income. During the first six months of 2010, accretion of $2.5 million was recorded as interest income. As of December 31, 2010, the balance of the carrying value of our discount on loans was $13.6 million, which has decreased by $17.3 million from its carrying value of $30.9 million as of December 31, 2009 and by $41.3 million from its initial value of $54.9 million. We expect the continued reduction of discount accretion recorded as interest income in future quarters. Our decisions regarding the fair value of assets acquired, including the FDIC loss sharing assets, could be different than initially estimated which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. We acquired significant portfolios of loans in the Mirae Bank acquisition. Although these loans were marked down to their estimated fair value, there is no assurance that the acquired loans will not suffer further deterioration in value resulting in additional charge-offs. The fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential, commercial real estate and construction markets, may increase the level of charge-offs in the loan portfolio that we acquired from Mirae Bank and correspondingly reduce our net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition, even if other favorable events occur. Although we have entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC which provide that a significant portion of losses related to the assets acquired from Mirae Bank will be borne by the FDIC, we are not protected for all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to those assets. Additionally, the loss sharing agreements have limited terms. Therefore, any charge-off of related losses that we experience after the term of the loss sharing agreements will not be reimbursed by the FDIC and will negatively impact our net income. Our ability to obtain reimbursement under the loss sharing agreement on covered assets depends on our compliance with the terms of the loss sharing agreement. The Company must certify to the FDIC on a quarterly basis our compliance with the terms of the FDIC loss sharing agreement as a prerequisite to obtaining reimbursement from the FDIC for realized losses on covered assets. The required terms of the agreement are extensive and failure to comply with any of the guidelines could result in a specific asset or group of assets permanently losing their loss sharing coverage. As of June 30, 2009, $235.6 million, or 6.86%, of the Company's assets were covered 37 Table of Contents by the FDIC loss sharing agreement. No assurances can be given that we will manage the covered assets in such a way as to always maintain loss share coverage on all such assets. Adverse changes in domestic or global economic conditions, especially in California, could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, and profitability. If economic conditions worsen in the domestic or global economy, especially in California, our business, growth and profitability are likely to be materially adversely affected. A substantial number of our clients are geographically concentrated in California, and adverse economic conditions in California, particularly in the Los Angeles area, could harm the businesses of a disproportionate number of our clients. To the extent that our clients' underlying businesses are harmed, they are more likely to default on their loans. We can provide no assurance that conditions in the California economy and in the economies of other areas where we operate will not deteriorate further in the future and that such deterioration will not adversely affect us. Continuing negative developments in the financial industry and U.S. and global credit markets may affect our operations and results. Negative developments in the U.S. financial market, its real estate section, and the securitization markets for the mortgage loans have resulted in uncertainty in the overall economy both domestically and globally. Commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have substantially declined and may continue to further decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices generally have been negatively affected as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. 2009 was a record year for bankruptcies and bank failures. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could negatively affect our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely affect our financial performance. The effect of the U.S. Government's response to the financial crisis remains uncertain. In response to the turmoil in the financial services sector and the severe recession in the broader economy, the U.S. Government has taken legislative and other action intended to restore financial stability and economic growth. On October 3, 2008, then President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the "EESA"). Among other things, the EESA established the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. Under TARP, the United States Treasury Department (the "Treasury Department") was given the authority, among other things, to purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions and others for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the Treasury Department announced a program under EESA pursuant to which it would make senior preferred stock investments in qualifying financial institutions (the "TARP Capital Purchase Program"). On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the "ARRA"). The ARRA contained, among other things, a further package of economic stimulus measures and amendments to EESA's restrictions on compensation of executives of financial institutions and others participating in the TARP. In addition to legislation, the Federal Reserve Board eased short-term interest rates and implemented a series of emergency programs to furnish liquidity to the financial markets and credit to various participants in 38 Table of Contents those markets. The FDIC created a program to guarantee, on specified conditions, certain indebtedness and noninterest-bearing transaction accounts of participating insured depository institutions for limited periods. After permitting some of its emergency programs to lapse during the first half of the year, in November, 2010, the Federal Reserve Board implemented a further program of quantitative easing involving the purchase of an additional $600 billion of longer-term Treasury securities by the end of the second quarter of 2011. In addition, on December 17, 2010, President Obama signed the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 (the "2010 Tax Relief Act") which is intended to stimulate the economy. Among other things, the 2010 Tax Relief Act contained two-year extensions of the Bush era tax cuts and of Alternative Minimum Tax relief, a two-percentage point reduction in employee-paid payroll taxes and self-employment tax for 2011, new incentives for investment in machinery and equipment, estate tax relief, and a significant number of tax breaks for individuals and businesses. In addition, on July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act, the most comprehensive reform of the regulation of the financial services industry since the Great Depression of the 1930's. Among many other things, the Dodd-Frank Act provides for increased supervision of financial institutions by regulatory agencies, more stringent capital requirements for financial institutions, major changes to deposit insurance assessments by the FDIC, heightened regulation of hedging and derivatives activities, a greater focus on consumer protection issues, in part through the formation of a new Consumer Finance Protection Bureau having powers formerly split among different regulatory agencies, extensive changes to the regulation of mortgage lending, imposition of limits on interchange transaction and network fees for electronic debit transactions, repeal of the existing prohibition on payment of interest on demand deposits, the effective winding up of additional expenditures of funds under the TARP, and the imposition of a "sunset date" of December 31, 2012 on expenditures under the ARRA. Many of the Dodd-Frank Act provisions have delayed effective dates that have not yet occurred, while others require implementing regulations of Federal agencies that have not yet been adopted. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact of the EESA, the ARRA, the 2010 Tax Relief Act, the Dodd-Frank Act and their respective implementing regulations, the programs of the government agencies, or any further legislation or regulations, on the financial markets or the broader economy. A failure to stabilize the financial markets, and a continuation or worsening of the current financial market conditions, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. Our operations may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available or may not be on terms acceptable to us when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. While we believe our existing capital resources at the Bank are sufficient to satisfy the Bank's capital requirements for the foreseeable future and will be sufficient to offset any problem assets. However, should our asset quality erode and require significant additional provision, resulting in consistent net operating losses at the Bank, our capital levels will decline and we will need to raise capital to support the Bank. In addition, we are subject to separate capital requirements and needs at the holding company. While we are in compliance with capital requirements at the holding company, there may be reasons in the future why we would determine to increase our capital levels at the holding company. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be certain of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to operate in substantially the same manner as we have before, including the payment of dividends at the bank and holding company levels, could be materially impaired. 39 Table of Contents Maintaining or increasing our market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer demand. There is increasing pressure on financial services companies to provide products and services at lower prices. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including Internet-based services, could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products or services. A failure to achieve market acceptance of any new products we introduce, or a failure to introduce products that the market may demand, could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability, or growth prospects. Significant reliance on loans secured by real estate may increase our vulnerability to downturns in the California real estate market and other variables impacting the value of real estate. At December 31, 2010, approximately 85.3% of our loans were secured by real estate, a substantial portion of which consist of loans secured by real estate in California. Conditions in the California real estate market historically have influenced the level of our non-performing assets. A real estate recession in Southern California could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, California has experienced, on occasion, significant natural disasters, including earthquakes, brush fires and flooding attributed to the weather phenomenon known as "El Nino." In addition to these catastrophes, California has experienced a moderate decline in housing prices beginning in late 2006. The decline in housing prices subsequently developed into the current financial crisis, characterized by the further decline in the real estate market in many parts of the country, including California, starting in the second half of 2007, and the failures of many financial institutions in 2008 and 2009. The availability of insurance to compensate for losses resulting from such crises is limited. The occurrence of one or more of such crises could impair the value of the collateral for our real estate secured loans and adversely affect us. If we fail to retain our key employees, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Our future success depends in large part upon the continuing contributions of our key management personnel. If we lose the services of one or more key employees within a short period of time, we could be adversely affected. Our future success is also dependent upon our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for such employees among financial institutions in California is intense. Our inability to attract and retain additional key personnel could adversely affect us. In November 2007, our former Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, resigned. Following his resignation, we engaged his replacement in April 2008. In addition, our Senior Vice President and Controller, was promoted to Senior Vice President and Deputy Chief Financial Officer in conjunction with the appointment of our new Chief Financial Officer. Furthermore, effective January 1, 2008, our former President and Chief Executive Officer retired. However, in connection with his retirement, we have entered into a consulting agreement providing for his continued service as an advisor for the Bank until May 2009. Following the retirement of our former Chief Executive Officer, we promoted our previous Executive Vice President and Chief Lending Officer to the position of President and Chief Executive Officer; and our prior Executive Vice President and SBA Manager, was promoted to Chief Lending Officer. The Company's Chief Marketing Officer was terminated in December 2010, and the position remains open. Effective February 18, 2011 our President and Chief Executive Officer resigned after which a new President and Chief Executive Officer was immediately appointed the position on the same day. In March of 2011, the Chief Lending Officer also resigned and his position still remained open. For as long as we have shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding in connection with the U.S. Treasury's voluntary TARP Capital Purchase Program, we will be subject to the limitations on compensation included in EESA and ARRA. These restrictions may make it more difficult for us to 40 Table of Contents retain certain of our key officers and employees because competitors who are not subject to the same restrictions may be able to offer more competitive salaries and/or benefits to these individuals. More information about the compensation limitations of EESA and AARA can be found in the section entitled "Supervision and Regulation—TARP Capital Purchase Program" in Item 1 of this Report. We may be unable to manage future growth. We may encounter problems in managing our future growth. Our total assets at December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 were $2.97 billion, $3.44 billion, and $2.45 billion, respectively, representing a decrease of $465.5 million or 13.6% in 2010, and an increase of $986.0 million, or 40.24% in 2009. No assurance can be provided that we will be able to identify a suitable acquisition target or consummate any such acquisition. Further, our ability to manage growth will depend primarily on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, monitor operations, maintain earnings, and control costs. We currently do not intend to consider additional "de novo" branches and LPOs or to investigate opportunities to acquire or combine with other financial institutions that would complement our existing business, as such opportunities may arise and be consistent with our deliberate expansion strategy. Any failure by us to accomplish these goals could risk interruptions in our business plans and could also adversely affect current operations. Our expenses will increase as a result of increases in FDIC insurance premiums. The FDIC imposes an assessment against institutions for deposit insurance. This assessment is based on the risk category of the institution. Federal law requires that the designated reserve ratio for the deposit insurance fund be established by the FDIC at a 1.15% of estimated insured deposits. If this reserve ratio drops below 1.15%, the FDIC must, within 90 days, establish and implement a plan to restore the designated reserve ratio to 1.15% of estimated insured deposits within five years (absent extraordinary circumstances). Recent bank failures coupled with deteriorating economic conditions have significantly reduced the deposit insurance fund's reserve ratio. As a result of this reduced reserve ratio, on October 7, 2008, the FDIC adopted a restoration plan that would restore the reserve ratios to its required level of 1.15% over a seven-year period. There have also been increases in FDIC assessments resulting from its recently announced Temporary Liquidity Guaranty Program. If the economy continues to decline, the FDIC premiums may continue to increase in the future. Continued increases in FDIC insurance premiums m have an adverse effect on our earnings depleting capital reserves. We could be liable for breaches of security in our online banking services. Fear of security breaches could limit the growth of our online services. We offer various Internet-based services to our clients, including online banking services. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is essential to maintain our clients' confidence in our online services. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect client transaction data. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to prevent security breaches and periodically test our security, failure to mitigate breaches of security could adversely affect our ability to offer and grow our online services and could harm our business. People generally are concerned with security and privacy on the Internet and any publicized security problems could inhibit the growth of the Internet as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Our ability to provide financial services over the Internet would be severely impeded if clients became unwilling to transmit confidential information online. As a result, our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 41 Table of Contents Our directors and executive officers beneficially own a significant portion of our outstanding common stock. As of February 26, 2011, our directors and executive officers, together with their respective affiliates, beneficially owned approximately 33% of our outstanding voting common stock (not including vested option shares). As a result, such shareholders may have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. We can provide no assurance that the investment objectives of such shareholders will be the same as our other shareholders. The market for our common stock is limited, and potentially subject to volatile changes in price. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuation in response to numerous factors, including variations in our annual or quarterly financial results or those of our competitors, changes by financial research analysts in their evaluation of our financial results or those of our competitors, or our failure or that of our competitors to meet such estimates, conditions in the economy in general or the banking industry in particular, or unfavorable publicity affecting us or the banking industry. In addition, the equity markets have, on occasion, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies' securities and have been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. In addition, the sale by any of our large shareholders of a significant portion of that shareholder's holdings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Further, the issuance or registration by us of any significant amount of additional shares of our common stock will have the effect of increasing the number of outstanding shares or, in the case of registrations, the number of shares of our common stock that are freely tradable; any such increase may cause the market price of our common stock to decline or fluctuate significantly. Any such fluctuations may adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock. We may experience impairment on goodwill. In light of the overall instability of the economy, the continued volatility in the financial markets, the downward pressure on bank stock prices and expectations of financial performance for the banking industry, including the Company, our estimates of goodwill fair value may be subject to change or adjustment and we may determine that impairment charges are necessary. Estimates of fair value are determined based on a complex model using cash flows and company comparisons. If management's estimates of future cash flows are inaccurate, the fair value determined could be inaccurate and impairment may not be recognized in a timely manner. If the Company's market capitalization falls below book value, we will update our valuation analysis to determine whether goodwill is impaired. No assurance can be given that goodwill will not be written down in future periods. We may experience a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets. At December 31, 2010, the Company had a total of $46.4 million in deferred tax assets, $33.6 million in Federal deferred tax assets, and $12.8 million in State deferred tax assets. In light of the net loss experienced in 2010, there may be a chance that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized in the future. The realization of the deferred tax assets is dependent upon whether there will be sufficient future taxable income to realize the deferred tax assets within the carryback or carryforward period available under tax laws. If at any time, all or a portion of the deferred tax assets are not expected to be realized, a valuation allowance is required to reduce the deferred tax asset balance and reduce net income. No assurance can be given that the Company will not record a valuation allowance in future periods. 42 Table of Contents We face substantial competition in our primary market area. We conduct our banking operations primarily in Southern California. Increased competition in our market may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the same banking services that we offer in our service area. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including without limitation, savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. We also face competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened low-end production offices or that solicit deposits in our market areas. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to continue our loan growth and level of deposits and our results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be adversely affected. Anti-takeover provisions of our charter documents may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management. Certain provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could discourage unsolicited takeover proposals not approved by the Board of Directors in which shareholders could receive a premium for their shares, thereby potentially limiting the opportunity for our shareholders to dispose of their shares at the higher price generally available in takeover attempts or that may be available under a merger proposal or may have the effect of permitting our current management, including the current Board of Directors, to retain its position, and place it in a better position to resist changes that shareholders may wish to make if they are dissatisfied with the conduct of our business. The anti-takeover measures included in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, include, without limitation, the following: •the elimination of cumulative voting, •the adoption of a classified Board of Directors, •super-majority shareholder voting requirements to modify certain provisions of the Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, and •restrictions on certain "business combinations" with third parties who may acquire our securities outside of an action taken by us. We are subject to significant government regulation and legislation that increases the cost of doing business and inhibits our ability to compete. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation, all of which is subject to material change from time to time. These laws and regulations increase the cost of doing business and have an adverse impact on our ability to compete efficiently with other financial service providers that are not similarly regulated. Changes in regulatory policies or procedures could result in management's determining that a higher provision for loan losses would be necessary and could cause 43 Table of Contents higher loan charge-offs, thus adversely affecting our net earnings. There can be no assurance that future regulation or legislation will not impose additional requirements and restrictions on us in a manner that could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and prospects. As a participant in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, we have agreed to various requirements and restrictions imposed by the U.S. Treasury on all participants, which included a provision that the U. S. Treasury could change the terms of participation at any time. Further information regarding the current requirements and restrictions imposed on TARP participants can be found under the caption "Regulation and Supervision—The TARP Capital Purchase Program" in Item 1 of this Report. We are subject to various regulatory requirements, expect to be subject to a memorandum of understanding and may be subject to future additional regulatory restrictions and enforcement actions. Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions, the California DFI and the Federal Reserve Board, and separately the FDIC as insurer of the Bank's deposits, have authority to compel or restrict certain actions if the Bank's capital should fall below adequate capital standards as a result of operating losses, or if its regulators otherwise determine that it has insufficient capital or is otherwise operating in an unsafe and unsound manner. Among other matters, the corrective actions may include, but are not limited to, requiring us or the Bank to enter into informal or formal enforcement orders, including memoranda of understanding, written agreements, supervisory letters, commitment letters, and consent or cease and desist orders to take corrective action and refrain from unsafe and unsound practices; removing officers and directors and assessing civil monetary penalties; terminating the Bank's FDIC insurance; requiring us to enter into a strategic transaction, whether by merger or otherwise; and taking possession of and closing and liquidating either or both of the Banks. In light of the current challenging operating environment, along with our elevated level of non-performing assets, delinquencies, and adversely classified assets and our recent operating results, we are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny as well as increased FDIC premiums as a result of the potential risk of loss in our loan portfolio. Following the regulators' most recent examination of the Bank in 2010 and the Federal Reserve examination of the Company during 2010 as well, we and the Bank expect to become subject to a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the California DFI and the FDIC. We expect that, under the MOU, the Bank will be required, among other things, to develop and implement plans to reduce commercial real estate concentrations; to improve asset quality and reduce classified assets; to improve profitability; and to increase Tier 1 leverage capital above what is currently required of the Bank. In addition, we expect to be required to retain management and directors acceptable to the California DFI and the FDIC. Lastly, it is expected that the Bank will not be able to pay cash dividends to the Company without prior approval from the FDIC and California DFI. No assurance can be given that our current management and directors are acceptable to the California DFI or the FDIC, that we will be able to retain or engage management and directors who are acceptable to the California DFI or the FDIC or that we will be able to meet the requirements of the memoranda in a timely manner. If we are unable to meet the requirements of the expected memoranda from the Washington DFI and the FDIC in a timely manner, we could become subject to additional supervisory action, including a consent order. If our banking supervisors were to take such additional supervisory action, we could, among other things, become subject to significant restrictions on our ability to develop any new business, as well as restrictions on our existing business, and we could be required to raise additional capital, dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period of time, or both. In addition, the FDIC has the power to deem the Bank to be only "adequately capitalized" even though its capital ratios meet the well capitalized standard. In such event, the Bank would be prohibited from using brokered deposits, which have been a source of funds for us in recent years, and rates on deposits 44 Table of Contents would be limited to market rates determined by the FDIC, potentially adversely affecting our liquidity. The terms of any such corrective action could have a material negative effect on our business, our financial condition and the value of our common stock. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to further supervisory action or regulatory proceedings. We could be negatively impacted by downturns in the South Korean economy. Many of our customers are locally based Korean-Americans who also conduct business in South Korea. Although we conduct most of our business with locally-based customers and rely on domestically located assets to collateralize our loans and credit arrangements, we have historically had some exposure to the economy of South Korea in connection with certain portions of our loans and credit transactions with Korean banks. Such exposure has consisted of: •discounts of acceptances created by banks in South Korea, •advances made against clean documents presented under sight letters of credit issued by banks in South Korea, •advances made against clean documents held for later presentation under letters of credit issued by banks in South Korea, and •extensions of credit to borrowers in the U.S. secured by letters of credit issued by banks in South Korea. We generally enter into any such loan or credit arrangements, in excess of $200,000 and of longer than 120 days, only with the largest of the Korean banks and spread other lesser or shorter term loan or credit arrangements among a variety of medium-sized Korean banks. As a result of the economic crisis in South Korea in the mid-1990's, management has continued to closely monitor our exposure to the South Korean economy and the activities of Korean banks with which we conduct business. To date, we have not experienced any significant loss attributable to our exposure to South Korea. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that our efforts to minimize exposure to downturns in the South Korean economy will be successful in the future, and another significant downturn in the South Korean economy could possibly result in significant credit losses for us. In addition, due to our customer base being largely made up of Korean-Americans, our deposit base could significantly decrease as a result of deterioration in the Korean economy. For example, some of our customers' businesses may rely on funds from South Korea. Further, our customers may temporarily withdraw deposits in order to transfer funds and benefit from gains on foreign exchange and interest rates, and/or to support their relatives in South Korea during downturns in the Korean economy. A significant decrease in our deposits could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additional shares of our common stock issued in the future could have a dilutive effect. Shares of our common stock eligible for future issuance and sale could have a dilutive effect on the market for our stock. Our Articles of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of 80,000,000 shares of common stock. As of February 28, 2011, there were approximately 29,477,778 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding, 1,091,800 shares of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock are reserved for issuance under the Wilshire Bancorp, Inc. 2008 Stock Option Plan, or the "2008 Stock Option Plan," 949,460 shares of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock are reserved for issuance upon exercise of the warrant that we issued to the U.S. Treasury in connection with our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, plus an additional 203,680 shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance to the holders of stock options previously granted and still outstanding 45 Table of Contents under the Wilshire State Bank 1997 Stock Option Plan, or the "1997 Stock Option Plan." Thus, approximately 48,119,536 shares of our common stock remain authorized (not reserved for stock options and are available for future issuance and sale) at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Shares of our preferred stock previously issued and preferred stock issued in the future could have dilutive and other effects. On December 12, 2008, we received $62,158,000 from the U.S. Treasury as part of the federal government's Capital Purchase Program. In exchange for the federal funding, we issued 62,158 shares of Series A Preferred Stock, each with a stated liquidation amount of $1,000 per share, to the U.S. Treasury. As of February 28, 2011, there were of 62,158 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock that were issued and outstanding. Shares of our preferred stock eligible for future issuance and sale also could have a dilutive effect on the market for the shares of our common stock, especially because of the fact that the preferred shares would have seniority with respect to our common stock. In addition to 80,000,000 shares of common stock, our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of December 31, 2010, the total number of shares of authorized but unissued preferred stock was 4,937,842. The Board of Directors could authorize the issuance of such preferred shares at any time in the future. If such shares of preferred stock are made convertible into shares of common stock, there could be a dilutive effect on the shares of common stock then outstanding. In addition, shares of preferred stock may be provided a preference over holders of common stock upon our liquidation or with respect to the payment of dividends, in respect of voting rights or in the redemption of our capital stock. The rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions applicable to any series of preferred stock may be determined by resolution of our Board of Directors without the need for shareholder approval. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 46 Table of Contents 