D. Risk factors Risks related to our business We currently generate substantially all of our total net revenues from either PRC government agencies or in connection with PRC government agency filings, and our failure to maintain a continued working relationship with certain PRC government agencies and, in particular, the PRC Inspections Administration, would result in the reduction or loss of substantially all of our total net revenues. Sales of our enterprise software and related customer maintenance services and software development services that are either used by the State Administration for Quality Supervision and Inspection and Quarantine of the PRC, or PRC Inspections Administration, or by Beijing iTowNet Cyber Technology Ltd., or iTowNet, which is the operator of the PRC Inspections Administration’s data exchange platforms and electronic processing systems, have accounted for substantially all of our total net revenues. We expect that, in the near future, we will continue to generate a substantial portion of our total net revenues through sales of enterprise software and related customer maintenance services and software development services that will be used in connection with PRC Inspections Administration filings. Net revenues from sales of enterprise software and related customer maintenance services for PRC Inspections Administration filings accounted for 84.8%, 76.2% and 74.7% of our total net revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Net revenues from software development services provided, directly or indirectly, to the PRC Inspections Administration and iTowNet accounted for 11.7%, 10.7% and 0.2% of our total net revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. 4 TOC We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our working relationship with the PRC Inspections Administration or other PRC government agencies in connection with new enterprise software or in relation to the continued use of our existing enterprise software. If the PRC Inspections Administration ceases to cooperate with us in researching and developing new enterprise software; ceases to use the electronic infrastructure that we helped develop and build; reduces its spending on, or commitment to, or ceases or slows down the implementation of, the digitization of its processes for data collection and administration; encourages our competitors or alternate means of data collection; or requires us to lower the prices of our products and services; then our market position, revenues and profitability would be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, such a change in our relationship with the PRC Inspections Administration could result in the loss of what we perceive to be our first mover advantage in developing software products compatible with the systems implemented by the PRC Inspections Administration. The loss of such an advantage would result in slower growth and/or reduced sales, which would require us to increase our research and development and sales and marketing expenditures. Our revenues would be adversely affected if the PRC Inspections Administration, or any other government agency to which our products relate, develops, endorses or adopts an alternative to our enterprise software. Our business would be adversely affected if the PRC Inspections Administration, its affiliated company iTowNet or any other government agency or affiliate to which our products relate decides to develop its software and platform internally, endorses software provided by others or permits filings to be made online without independently produced software. In such case, we would not only face enhanced competition, but our software products and services relating to the PRC Inspections Administration, iTowNet or any such government agency or affiliate could become obsolete, which would result in the reduction or loss of substantially all of our revenues. In August 2005, the PRC Inspections Administration selected our company as the winning bidder in connection with the PRC Inspections Administration’s request for proposals for the development of a software product that has certain basic functionalities similar to those of iDeclare.CIQ and iProcess.CIQ. The PRC Inspections Administration agreed to pay a one-time fee of RMB3.3 million (US$423,000) to purchase the ownership of the software product that we developed. In February 2006, the PRC Inspections Administration commenced the distribution of the software products that our company developed, free-of-charge to end-users. As certain basic functionalities of the newly developed software products are similar to those of iDeclare.CIQ and iProcess.CIQ, the provision of such software products free-of-charge by the PRC Inspections Administration will likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the short-term and on our future profitability. For example, we sold, together with our franchisees, approximately 1,500, 2,200 and 1,000 software packages of iDeclare.CIQ during the first quarter of 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively, which is significantly lower than the approximately 8,000 software packages of iDeclare.CIQ sold by our company and our former distributors and franchisees during the first quarter of 2005. In May 2007, the PRC Inspections Administration selected our company as one of the winning bidders in connection with the PRC Inspections Administration’s request for proposals for servicing the free import/export e-filing software provided by the PRC Inspections Administration. In 2008, we believe that the PRC Inspections Administration decreased its efforts to promote its free software and we believe there is uncertainty surrounding the PRC Inspections Administration’s future promotional plans for its free software products. 5 TOC We are in the process of diversifying our business focus to include other businesses in addition to the sales of our enterprise software and related customer maintenance services and the provision of software development services. Our new potential business ventures and limited operating history in such potential business ventures may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business, and our limited resources may affect our ability to manage the growth we expect to achieve. We generated substantially all of our total net revenues from the sales of our enterprise software and related customer maintenance services, and the provision of software development services in 2007. Currently, we are in the process of expanding our business focus from the development of software products and the provision of software development services to other potential business ventures. We anticipate that a material portion of our net revenue in the future will be derived from businesses that are not directly related to sales of our enterprise software and related customer maintenance services or the provision of software development services. We are still in the process of developing our business-to-business, or B2B, strategy. On April 27, 2007, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Ixworth, acquired a 70.0% interest in Ample Spring Holdings Limited, or Ample Spring, a company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, as part of the acquisition of Ample Spring, we also acquired 70.0% of the equity interests of Beijing Baichuan Tongda Science and Technology Development Company Ltd., or Baichuan, which is one of our variable interest entities. We launched our new B2B vertical search platform, tootoo.com in May 2007, through which our B2B business and services are offered. We launched the second generation of tootoo.com in June 2007, which features advanced vertical search capabilities plus value-added services for global buyers and suppliers. We do not have a significant operating history in respect to such business upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects in such area. Furthermore, as part of our operation expansion, we need to continue to develop and improve our staff training, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to efficiently or effectively manage or grow our operations, and any failure to do so may limit our future growth and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our significant shareholders, related parties and management personnel have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may result in their taking corporate actions which you may not believe to be in your best interests or in the best interests of our company. As of May 31, 2008, Shuang Wang, our Chief Executive Officer and a director of our company, or Mr. Wang, and Min Dong, our Senior Vice President of Legal Affairs, Administration and Human Resources and the spouse of Mr. Wang, or Ms. Dong, beneficially own 17.62% of our ordinary shares. Mr. Wang and Ms. Dong will have substantial influence over the management and policies of our company and the outcome of most corporate actions. In addition, we understand from publicly available information that Mr. Yong Ping Duan, or Mr. Duan, and Technology Pioneer Corp., or Technology Pioneer, beneficially own 14.72% and 8.58% of our American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, respectively. Together with Technology Pioneer, Mr. Duan will have substantial influence over the outcome of most corporate actions. As a result, Mr. Wang, Ms. Dong, Mr. Duan and Technology Pioneer have the power to take corporate actions which other shareholders may not believe are in their best interests or in the best interests of our company. There can be no assurance that Mr. Wang, Ms. Dong, Mr. Duan and Technology Pioneer will not cause our company to take such corporate actions. 6 TOC Mr. Wang and Ms. Dong beneficially own 100.0% of Ninetowns Import & Export e-Commerce Co., Ltd., or Import & Export, which in turn owns a 49.0% equity interest in iTowNet. iTowNet is 51.0% owned by the PRC Inspections Administration and is the ultimate user of a substantial portion of all the software development services we provide and operates the data exchange platforms that interface between international trade enterprises using our enterprise software and the PRC Inspections Administration’s internal electronic processing systems. iTowNet receives a fee of RMB5 from the end-users for each submission made over its data exchange platforms. Mr. Wang is a non-executive director and the vice-chairman of the board of directors of iTowNet. Due to their ownership interest in iTowNet and Mr. Wang’s position as a director of iTowNet, the interests of Mr. Wang and Ms. Dong may also differ from those of our other shareholders. Mr. Xiaoguang Ren, who is our President, or Mr. Ren, is also a non-executive director of iTowNet. Mr. Bolin Wu, who is our General Manager, Research and Development and Chief Technology Officer, or Mr. Wu, is the sole supervisor of iTowNet. As the supervisor of iTowNet, Mr. Wu is responsible for overseeing the financial operations of iTowNet, the actions of its board of directors and senior management and their compliance with relevant laws and iTowNet’s charter documents. We derived RMB17.3 million of our total net revenues in 2005 from iTowNet, which is our related party and a major customer for our software development services. We did not derive any revenue from iTowNet in 2006 and 2007. In addition, we derived RMB24.2 million, RMB16.4 million and nil, or 10.1%, 10.7% and nil, of our total net revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively, from eGrid Technology Ltd., or eGrid, (formerly known as Beijing Regard Technology Co., Ltd., or Beijing Regard), which is our related party and another major customer for our software development services. We derived RMB47.5 million, RMB21.2 million and RMB2.9 million (US$0.4 million), or 19.8%, 13.9% and 2.8% of our total net revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively, from Shenzhen Ninetowns Enke Software Technology Co., Ltd., or Ninetowns Enke, which is our related party and also one of our franchisees. We derived RMB0.5 million and RMB6.4 million (US$0.9 million), or 0.3% and 6.2% of our total net revenues in 2006 and 2007, respectively, from Guangzhou Ninetowns Wang Li Software Co., Ltd., or Ninetowns Wang Li, which is our related party and also one of our franchisees. We cannot assure you that our transactions with iTowNet, eGrid and Ninetowns Enke would have occurred on their current terms, or at all, had these relationships not existed; nor can there be any assurance as to the effect these relationships will have on our future business dealings with iTowNet, eGrid and Ninetowns Enke. See Item 7 of this annual report, “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Related party transactions.” Since a significant part of our total net revenues in 2005 and 2006 was generated from software development services, a decline in demand for those services or a change in our relationship with the primary purchasers of those services results in a significant reduction in our total net revenues and our net revenues from the provision of software development services. We have provided software development services to iTowNet since April 2002. In addition, we provide software development services either directly, or indirectly as a sub-contractor for eGrid, to iTowNet. See Item 7 of this annual report, “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Related party transactions — eGrid Technology Ltd.”. Net revenues from the provision of software development services, either directly to iTowNet or indirectly to iTowNet through eGrid, accounted for approximately 11.7%, 8.4% and nil of our total net revenues, and 78.7%, 35.9% and nil of our net revenues from the provision of software development services, in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. We intend to continue to offer these services to iTowNet and eGrid, but if we are unable to obtain new software development contracts from iTowNet or from eGrid, we may cease to provide software development services. For 2007, we experienced a significant reduction in our total net revenues and our net revenues from the provision of software development services. 7 TOC A significant portion of our total net revenues are generated by our major customers, and the loss of all or part of our net revenues from any of these customers would result in a decline in our total net revenues and a significant increase in our sales and marketing expenditures. As of May 31, 2008, we have franchise agreements with our four franchisees including (i) Beijing Ninetowns Zhi Fang Software Technology Co., Ltd., or Ninetowns Zhi Fang, (ii) Beijing Ninetowns Xin He Software Technology Co., Ltd., or Ninetowns Xin He, (iii) Ninetowns Wang Li and (iv) Ninetowns Enke, who as a result of their purchases of enterprise software and related customer maintenance services for distribution to end-users, are also four of our largest customers. We currently do not have any distributor. § Our net revenues from sales of our enterprise software and related customer maintenance services from Ninetowns Zhi Fang were RMB3.3 million, RMB10.0 million and RMB17.6 million (US$2.4 million), which represented 1.4%, 6.5% and 17.0% of our total net revenues for 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. § Our net revenues from sales of our enterprise software and related customer maintenance services from Ninetowns Xin He were RMB9.2 million and RMB23.8 million (US$3.3 million), which represented 6.0% and 23.0% of our total net revenues for 2006 and 2007, respectively. § Our net revenues from sales of our enterprise software and related customer maintenance services from Ninetowns Wang Li were RMB0.5 million and RMB6.4 million (US$0.9 million), which represented 0.3% and 6.2% of our total net revenues for 2006 and 2007, respectively. § Our net revenues from sales of our enterprise software and related customer maintenance services from Ninetowns Enke were RMB47.5 million, RMB21.2 million and RMB2.9 million (US$0.4 million) or 19.8%, 13.9% and 2.8% of our total net revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. To our knowledge, none of our franchisees are PRC government agencies. eGrid and iTowNet have been our two largest customers for software development services. Our net revenues from the provision of software development and other services to eGrid were RMB24.2 million, RMB16.4 million and RMB0.2 million (US$31,311) or 10.0%, 10.7% and 0.2% of our total net revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Our net revenues from the provision of software development services to iTowNet were RMB4.1million, or 1.7%, of our total net revenues in 2005. We did not recognize any net revenues from software development services to iTowNet in 2006 and 2007. To our knowledge, iTowNet and eGrid are not PRC government agencies, but iTowNet is 51.0% owned by the PRC Inspections Administration. In the event one or more of our customers discussed above discontinues their businesses or their dealings with us, and we are unable to find an adequate replacement for such customer in a timely manner, we would suffer a decline in total net revenues and in turn would need to significantly increase our sales and marketing expenditures. 8 TOC Our trade receivables, which include trade receivables from related parties, are significant and if customers fail to pay amounts owed, our profitability and financial position could decline. As of December 31, 2007, our total trade receivables amounted to approximately RMB37.4 million (US$5.1 million), of which our trade receivables from related parties amounted to RMB6.4 million (US$0.9 million). Our total trade receivables as of December 31, 2007 represented approximately 5.0% of our total current assets. As of December 31, 2007, we had an allowance for doubtful debts of approximately RMB23.3 million (US$3.2 million). If any of our franchisees or any of our other customers fails to pay, or delays payment on, all or part of these receivables, we would be required to make additional allowances for doubtful debts and our profitability and financial position could decline. Our existing major shareholders have substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control, which could in turn reduce the market price of your ADSs. Our executive officers, directors and shareholders with 5.0% or more shareholding of our company and their affiliates beneficially own approximately 45.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Such concentration of ownership might have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company which could in turn reduce the market price of our ADSs and the voting and other rights of our other shareholders. Our failure to market our customer maintenance services to our existing users could impair our planned revenue growth. We offer one year of customer maintenance services with our iDeclare.CIQ basic package, and charge a fee of RMB1,500 per licensee for customer maintenance services each year thereafter. However, we believe that not all of our users and potential users were accustomed to being charged for this type of service. In 2007, we offered customer maintenance service contracts to approximately 37,700 users, so that approximately 30% of the total number of users due for a maintenance contract renewal in 2007 paid for the renewal. In 2007, we recognized approximately RMB26.4 million (US$3.6 million) from provision of customer maintenance services. Our success in marketing customer maintenance services to our users depends in part on whether users require software updates. Software updates can implement modifications to forms, programs and information systems necessary to address changes imposed by the PRC Inspections Administration. Therefore, the desirability and usefulness of our customer maintenance services is dependent in part on changes occurring in government policies. If we fail to market our customer maintenance services to, or to collect customer maintenance service fees from, our users in the future, our planned revenue growth could be impaired. 9 TOC We currently depend on our iDeclare.CIQ product for a substantial majority of our total net revenues and our failure to develop or license additional enterprise software or a decline in demand for iDeclare.CIQ could materially reduce our total net revenues. Sales of iDeclare.CIQ and related customer maintenance services accounted for approximately 79.3%, 70.4% and 73.9% of our total net revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Any of the following events could materially reduce our total net revenues. § Any decrease in the demand for or price of iDeclare.CIQ or any increase in competition to iDeclare.CIQ, including but not limited to as a result of the PRC Inspections Administration’s and iTowNet’s endorsement of a comparable product, § Any failure by our company to develop additional enterprise software, any significant shift in our marketing efforts, § Any lasting or prolonged interruption that prevents our enterprise software from delivering data to government entities due to system failures or other factors, or § Any other adverse development specific to iDeclare.CIQ. In February 2006, the PRC Inspections Administration promoted and distributed a software product that has certain basic functionalities similar to our iDeclare.CIQ, free-of charge to end-users. As a result of competition from such free software, our sales of iDeclare.CIQ have declined significantly and will likely continue to decline. For example, we sold, together with our franchisees, approximately 1,000 software packages of iDeclare.CIQ during the first quarter of 2008, which is significantly lower than the approximately 2,200 software packages of iDeclare.CIQ sold by our company and our former distributors and franchisees during the first quarter of 2007. In the event such decline continues, we expect to experience a significant decline in our total net revenues. Competition could reduce our profit margins and revenues. Companies that have expertise in marketing and providing government-related software products and services may begin to compete with us. There are companies that provide software products and services similar to ours. In addition, there are companies in China that provide such products and services to PRC government agencies other than the PRC Inspections Administration. In particular, there are regional software providers in China implementing systems for provincial branches of government agencies such as the Customs General Administration of the PRC, or PRC Customs. Furthermore, we are aware of one other software provider in China, Fujian Ronji Software Development Co., Ltd., or Ronji, that provides enterprise software for PRC Inspections Administration-related filings. We are also aware of several software developers that provide software development services to our customers, in particular to iTowNet. See Item 4 of this annual report, “Information on the Company — Business overview — Competition.” There can be no assurance that other companies will not pursue opportunities relating to the needs of international trade enterprises making government filings in China. There are other companies such as Alibaba.com Limited, or Alibaba, and Global Sources Limited, or Global Sources, that provide B2B services that are similar to ours in China. Although we believe that our “vertical search plus value-added service” model is unique in the China market and differentiates our B2B business from the business of these other companies, there can be no assurance that our current and future competitors will not provide services that are substantially similar to our B2B services. 10 TOC Our competitors may have greater marketing, programming, research and development, capital and other resources than we do. These resources could enable our competitors to take aggressive action to gain market share. Additionally, we face competition from the free software distributed by the PRC Inspections Administration and from companies with established reputations and political relationships with PRC government agencies. If we do not compete effectively or if we experience any pricing pressure from our potential competitors, we may experience loss of market share and reduced profit margins and revenues. Future acquisitions and investments could divert our management’s attention, which may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and expose us to potential risks. Selective acquisitions and investments in new businesses form a part of our strategy to further expand our business. In 2006, we made an investment in a leading Chinese B2B trade facilitator. In 2007, we made investments in a leading Chinese B2B vertical search engine operator and a leading Chinese B2B food and beverage trade facilitator. Following our acquisition of these businesses under our B2B segment, we launched our new B2B vertical search platform, tootoo.com in May 2007 and we launched the second generation of tootoo.com in June 2007. We plan to utilize these investments in combination with our existing software expertise to further increase our service profile. If we are presented with additional opportunities, we may acquire additional complementary companies, products or technologies, or invest in new businesses. Future acquisitions and investments and the subsequent integration of new companies, assets or business ventures would require significant time and attention from our management. The diversion of our management’s attention to integrate such acquisitions or investments and any difficulties encountered in any integration process could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the integration of new operations, technologies and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies, the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions and investments, and potential loss of, or harm to, our relationships with employees, customers and suppliers. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our success depends substantially on the expertise and experience of our executive officers, who have extensive skills in and knowledge about the international trade industry and the software industry in China. They also have established relationships with our major customers, our suppliers, government regulators and our shareholders. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our executive officers. The loss of services of any or all of our executive officers in the absence of suitable replacements could have a material adverse effect on our operations and future profitability. In addition, if any of our executive officers joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, suppliers, research and development expertise and employees and our relationship with the PRC Inspections Administration could be materially and adversely affected. Although all of our executive officers have entered into service agreements with us which contain confidentiality and non-competition provisions, it may be difficult to enforce such provisions in China in light of uncertainties relating to China’s legal system. See “— Risks related to doing business in China — The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to you and could adversely affect our ability to provide our products and services in China.” 11 TOC Our inability to attract and retain experienced personnel may adversely affect our ability to create enterprise software for international trade enterprises or provide software development services to PRC government agencies. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain, train and motivate highly skilled employees, including experienced software engineers, technical personnel and sales and marketing personnel, all of whom are in great demand in China. In particular, we depend on software engineers who have expertise and experience in creating enterprise software for international trade enterprises as well as providing software development services to PRC government agencies. We may not be able to attract or retain the key personnel that we will need to achieve our business objectives. In addition, we are developing a new B2B business and at times our ability to find and train new employees who have the requisite B2B business experience may not meet the growing demands of our business. As the PRC economy continues to develop, demand for personnel with the skills that we require will increase, which could raise our costs or make it impracticable for us to hire skilled or experienced personnel. Certain of our senior software engineers, technical officers or staff members are not bound by non-competition agreements and those who are not bound could decide to resign or work for our competitors at any time without any contractual restriction. The departure of any of these personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to create enterprise software for international trade enterprises, provide software development services to PRC government agencies or develop our new B2B business. If we continue to grant employee share options and other share-based compensation in the future, our net income could be materially and adversely affected. We adopted the 2003 Plan in November 2003, and the Amended and Restated 2004 Plan and the 2006 Share Incentive Plan in October 2005, or collectively, the Plans. As of December 31, 2007, we had granted options under the Plans with the right to purchase a total of 3,464,000 ordinary shares, of which 587,921 unexercised options had been returned to the pool of our ungranted options as a result of resignation from employment by a few former employees. Until December 31, 2005, we accounted for options granted to our directors and employees in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” or APB 25, and its related interpretations, which require us to recognize compensation expenses for share options that we grant if the exercise price is less than the deemed fair value of our ordinary shares on the date of the grant. However, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, has issued Statement No. 123 (Revised 2004), “Share-Based Payments,” or SFAS 123 (R), which requires all companies to recognize, as an expense, the fair value of share options and other share-based compensation to employees at the beginning of the first annual or interim period after June 15, 2005. As a result, beginning on January 1, 2006, we account for compensation costs for certain share options using a fair-value based method and recognize expenses in our consolidated statement of operations in accordance with the relevant rules under U.S. GAAP, which may have a material and adverse effect on our reported earnings. Moreover, the additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of such incentive plan to us. However, if we reduce the scope of the Plans, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel, as share options are an important employee recruitment and retention tool. If we grant employee share options or other share-based compensation in the future, our net income could be adversely affected. 12 TOC Without PRC government action, we may not be able to introduce or enhance our enterprise software products, which may restrict our ability to expand our business and revenues. Our ability to offer enterprise software to international trade enterprises depends on the ability of various PRC government agencies to accept electronic filings from users of our enterprise software. This includes some PRC government agencies permitting electronic filings for the first time and other PRC government agencies which already permit some electronic filings allowing additional types of filings to be made. Factors such as a government agency’s budget, timing, decision-making process, ability to implement our enterprise software, willingness of local offices to implement our enterprise software and other factors beyond our control could constrain our ability to expand our business or increase our revenues. Our failure to adequately manage our business expansion could result in a deterioration in our results of operations and financial condition. Our expansion into new businesses such as our B2B business is likely to continue to place a significant strain on our managerial, operational, financial and other resources. Our future success will depend, in part, upon the ability of our senior management to manage our business expansion effectively. Such effective management will require us to implement additional management information systems, to develop further our operating, administrative, financial and accounting systems and controls and to maintain close coordination among our software design, software coding, accounting, finance, marketing, sales and operations organizations. Any failure to implement or improve systems or controls to manage our business expansion effectively could result in a deterioration in our results of operations and financial condition. We often commence work on software development projects based on verbal agreements and if our customers do not pay us for these services, our working capital requirements and expenses may increase without a corresponding increase in net revenues, which would adversely affect our profitability. As we believe is consistent with the practice of other software development companies in China engaged in government-related work, we often commence software development projects based on oral commitments from our customers. As a result, we may need to substantially increase our expenses without assurance that we will be paid for our software development services. Furthermore, we may not recognize any revenue from software development projects in any given period because we recognize revenue from such services only when a contract has been signed. If our customers do not pay us, or delay paying us, for our software development services, our working capital requirements and expenses may increase without a corresponding increase in net revenues, which would adversely affect our profitability. It may be difficult for us to maintain our market position and brand recognition in a rapidly developing market or in the face of competition, which could severely hamper our ability to operate profitably. We believe that market position and brand recognition are critical to attracting potential customers in the PRC market. In particular, we believe that our sales through indirect channels such as our four franchisees rely significantly on our reputation and brand recognition. However, there is no assurance that we can retain our reputation or capitalize on our current leading market share, reputation or brand recognition as our market develops and attracts new competitors. Our failure to promote and enhance our brand name could result in reduced sales or slower growth, each of which may require us to increase spending on marketing or to increase fees to our franchisees, which could reduce our profitability. 13 TOC Programming errors or flaws in our enterprise software or other product defects could decrease market acceptance of our software, which would reduce our revenues and profitability. Software as complex as our enterprise software frequently contains undetected defects that may be identified at any point in the software’s life. There can be no assurance that, despite repeated testing, defects will not occur in existing or new software. Such defects could result in loss of or delay in receiving revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation or increased service and warranty costs. Any of the above consequences could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, our software development services typically involve working with sophisticated software, computing and networking systems. Our failure or inability to meet customer expectations or project milestones in a timely manner could also result in loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to reputation and increased costs. Because our customers rely on our products and services for critical trade transactions, any significant defects or errors in our products or services might discourage our customers or potential customers from utilizing our products and services or result in tort or warranty claims. We do not maintain any insurance against product liability or legal claims. Any imposition of liability on us may adversely affect our business and increase our costs, resulting in reduced revenues and profitability. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights and others may claim that we have infringed on their intellectual property rights, which could cause us to be less competitive, may expose us to litigation and may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology. In addition, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop comparable intellectual property. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriations of our technology. From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation or other measures to try to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. We may be unable to enforce our intellectual property rights even through litigation or other measures, particularly in China. See “— Risks related to doing business in China — The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to you and could adversely affect our ability to provide our products and services in China.” In particular, we are aware of an online video game company in China whose name is substantially similar to our name in Chinese. Although we have registered our trademarks in China, we cannot assure you that such company will not take actions against us for trademark infringement. We have registered our trademark in the United States and we are in the process of registering our other trademarks in the United States and China. There can be no assurance that infringement or other claims will not be asserted or prosecuted against us in the future or that any past or future assertions or prosecutions will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel or require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, our revenues may decrease and our expenses to obtain or develop non-infringing technology or to license the infringed or similar technology may increase. In addition, our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely basis may cause our business, results of operations and financial condition to be negatively affected. See Item 4 of this annual report, “Information on the Company — Business overview —Intellectual property rights.” 14 TOC Any reduction of our preferential tax treatment as a PRC high and new technology enterprise could materially reduce our net income. Awarded the certificate of “New and High Technology Enterprise”, our subsidiaries and variable interests entities incorporated in PRC, such as Beijing Ninetowns Ports Software and Technology Co., Ltd., or Ninetowns Ports, Beijing Ninetowns Network and Software Co., Ltd., or Ninetowns Network, Guangdong Ninetowns Technology Co., Ltd., or Guangdong Ninetowns Technology, Beijing Ronghe Tongshang Network Technology Limited, or Ronghe Tongshang, Beijing New Take Electronic Commerce Limited, or Beijing New Take, Beijing Ninetowns Times Electronic Commerce Limited, or Ninetowns Times, Beijing Ninetowns Digital Technology Limited, or Ninetowns Digital, and Shanghai New Take Digital Technology Co., Ltd., or Shanghai New Take, are subject to preferential tax treatments. In addition, we also receive from the PRC government a 14.0% value added tax, or VAT, refund on sales of certain registered software. We cannot assure you that we will continue to enjoy this preferential tax treatment in the future, either due to a change in the PRC government’s tax policies or because a subsidiary or variable interest entity fails to satisfy the financial and operational criteria necessary to maintain its eligibility for such preferential tax treatment. Any reduction in our preferential tax treatment could materially reduce our net income. On January 1, 2008, the 2008 PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law became effective, which imposes a uniform EIT rate of 25.0% for all enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) and revoked the current tax exemption, reduction and preferential treatments applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. However, the preferential EIT rate of 15.0% for “high and new technology enterprises” strongly supported by the State and current preferential tax treatments for foreign-invested high and new technology enterprises are expected to be grandfathered for a period of five years following the effective date of the new law. Our subsidiaries and variable interest entity must continue to meet a number of criteria in order to continue to qualify for the preferential tax treatments currently available to them. Moreover, the government could determine at any time to eliminate or reduce the scale of such preferential tax policies. On April 14, 2008, the Ministry of Science and Technology, Ministry of Finance and State Administration of Taxation promulgated the new Measures for Recognition of High and New Technology Enterprise, which became effective on January 1, 2008. If we fail to comply with the requirements for recognition of high and new technology enterprises, our subsidiaries and variable interest entity may not continue to qualify as “high and new technology enterprises” that are supported by the State. Before the subsidiaries and variable interest entity are re-recognized as “high and new technology enterprises”, we will be subject to a 25.0% EIT for all of our subsidiaries in China, except for Ninetowns Port, Ninetowns Network and Guangdong Ninetowns Technology, which are still in their preferential tax treatment period. Additionally, under the 2008 PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, enterprises established under the laws of foreign countries or regions whose “de facto management bodies” are located within the PRC are considered resident enterprises and will generally be subject to the EIT at the rate of 25.0% on its global income. However, the 2008 PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law does not define the term “de facto management bodies.” Substantially all of our management is currently located in the PRC and if they remain located in the PRC after the effective date of the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be considered to be a resident enterprise and therefore may be subject to the EIT at the rate of 25.0% on our global income in the PRC. 15 TOC It is likely that we would be considered a passive foreign investment company for 2007, which could lead to additional taxes for U.S. holders of ADSs. Special U.S. federal income tax rules apply to U.S. holders of shares of a non-U.S. corporation that is classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The determination of our PFIC status principally depends upon the composition of our assets, including goodwill, and the amount and nature of our income, from time to time. The amount of goodwill will depend in part on the market value of our ADSs or ordinary shares, which may be especially volatile in a technology-related enterprise. We have limited control over these variables. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we would not be considered a PFIC for any taxable year. It is likely that we would be classified as a PFIC for 2007. As a result, U.S. holders of shares may be subject to United States federal income tax consequences that are less favorable than those that would apply if we were not a PFIC. For example, gain from the sale of our shares may be ineligible for preferential capital gains rates and may be subject to an interest charge. Please see Item 10 of this annual report, “Additional Information – Taxation – United States federal income taxation.” Risks related to our industry Our industry is subject to rapid changes in technology and our failure to develop and introduce new enterprise software could reduce our market competitiveness and ability to generate revenues. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological changes and evolving customer, industry and government standards. Our future success will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to keep pace with technological advances in a timely and cost-effective manner by improving our existing enterprise software or developing new enterprise software that addresses changing customer requirements. Our development of new enterprise software or the enhancement of our existing enterprise software will entail substantial investments in research and development, which we expect to fund with our cash flow from operations and our available cash. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that our research and development efforts will result in the successful introduction of new enterprise software or the enhancement of our existing enterprise software, nor that any of such new or enhanced enterprise software will be accepted by the market. The success of our new enterprise software is dependent on several factors, including differentiation of our enterprise software from products of our competitors and market acceptance. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing new enterprise software that responds to competitive and technological developments and changing customer needs. Our failure to develop and introduce new enterprise software successfully on a timely basis or to achieve market acceptance could reduce our market competitiveness and ability to generate net revenues. In addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunication technologies or standards or other technological changes could require substantial expenditures by us to modify or adapt our products and services. To the extent that a method other than submission by Internet is adopted to enable trusted and secure communications with the PRC Inspections Administration and other trade-related PRC government agencies, sales of our existing and planned enterprise software products will be adversely affected and our enterprise software could be rendered unmarketable or obsolete. Such consequences would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 TOC Government policies, standards, rules and regulations may force us to implement changes to our existing enterprise software or change how we provide products and services to our customers, which could increase our expenses and decrease our profitability. The software industry in China and the regulatory environment has been and continues to be subject to uncertainty. Although the PRC government adopted policies to encourage the development of the PRC electronic government, or e-government, industry through the “Three Digitizations Project,” there can be no assurance that policies and the government’s standards, rules and regulations relating to the e-government software industry, such as the Regulations for the Protection of Computer Software, will not be implemented, interpreted or revised in a manner that may force us to implement changes to our existing enterprise software or change how we provide products and services to our customers, which could increase our expenses and decrease our profitability. See Item 4 of this annual report, “Information on the Company — Business overview — Regulation” for a discussion of the laws and regulations that apply to our company. We cannot accurately predict the circumstances that would cause the PRC government to implement, interpret or revise its policies in such a manner. Nevertheless, the PRC government could adopt measures to more closely regulate the use of the Internet or the software industry in China in order to enhance the government’s control over the Internet or over the content of software being distributed in China. For example, we may be subject to potential liability for selling software that is subsequently deemed to be illegal by the relevant PRC regulatory authorities for having non-approved technology. These potential liabilities may include fines, product confiscation and criminal sanctions. We cannot assure you that our business, financial condition and results of operations will not be negatively affected by the application of these regulations. Furthermore, China and the United States may afford different patent protection to software programs. For example, there are jurisdictional variations in the enforcement of patent rights in China because most patent infringement disputes are resolved by courts at the municipal or provincial level or by local administrative authorities for patent affairs, which may be subject to varying local economic and political influences in rendering their decisions. By contrast, all patent disputes in the United States are reviewable by a single federal circuit court, which generally provides greater uniformity to the adjudication of patent disputes. We cannot predict whether the PRC authorities would centralize the enforcement or adjudication of patent rights in the future or how such centralized enforcement or adjudication would affect our rights. If the PRC authorities further de-centralize the regulation of the software industry, or centralize its enforcement or adjudication policy in a way that is detrimental to our company, we may be forced to implement changes to our existing enterprise software or change how we provide products and services to our customers, which could increase our expenses and decrease our profitability. 17 TOC Risks related to doing business in China Adverse economic, political, social or legal developments or a decrease in domestic demand in China could result in a reduction in international trade activities involving China, which could in turn reduce the demand for our products and services. All of our total net revenues have been, and are for the foreseeable future expected to be, derived from the PRC market and substantially all of our operating assets are located in China. Accordingly, our operating results and financial condition are largely subject to economic, political, social and legal developments in China as well as changes in the demand for our enterprise software and software development services by international trade enterprises and PRC government agencies in China. There can be no assurance that such developments will not adversely affect our performance and profitability. We cannot predict the future direction of the economic reform measures that have been adopted by the PRC government or the effects these measures may have on our business, results of operations or financial position. Many laws and regulations governing economic matters implemented by the PRC government are at an early stage of development and their interpretation and enforcement involve more uncertainties than in most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD. In addition, the PRC economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the OECD. These differences include: · economic structure; · level of government involvement in the economy; · level of development; · level of capital reinvestment; · control of foreign exchange; · methods of allocating resources; and · balance of payments position. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the PRC economy were similar to those of other OECD member countries. In addition, there can be no assurance that any growth in the PRC economy will be steady or that any slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business; that deflation will not reoccur in the PRC economy in the foreseeable future; or that the level of international trade to and from China will not cease to grow at historical rates or even decrease, which could negatively impact demand for our enterprise software. Finally, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively affected by adverse changes in government monetary policies, import/export polices and regulations, tax regulations or policies and regulations affecting the software industry. In recent years, the PRC government 18 TOC implemented a number of measures, such as raising bank reserves against deposit rates, to place additional limitations on the ability of commercial banks to make loans, in order to slow growth in certain segments of the PRC economy it believed to be overheating. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could result in a reduction in international trade activities involving China, which could in turn reduce the demand for our products and services. The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to you and could adversely affect our ability to provide our products and services in China. We conduct our business entirely through our operating subsidiaries and variable interest entities incorporated in China. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In the late 1970s, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors and entities, including you and us, such as the right of foreign-invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as customs-related business licenses and permits, software licenses and licenses and approvals necessary to provide services to government enterprises. As the PRC legal system matures, changes in its legislation or interpretation of its legislation may adversely affect our ability to provide our products and services in China. Landlords for some of our leased properties may not possess valid title to their properties and we could be forced to vacate such properties should their title be challenged. PRC law requires that lessors of properties possess title certificates to the leased properties. We currently have approximately eight leases for properties that we use as employee housing or as our offices for technical support centers in Guangdong Province, of which six lessors cannot provide copies of the required title certificates. If there are disputes over the ownership of any of these leased properties for which the lessors do not possess title certificates, our leases may be deemed invalid by the PRC courts and we may be forced to vacate these properties. The recurrence of SARS or avian influenza may result in a reduction in business activity in and related to Asia, which could have an adverse effect on our total net revenues, growth and profits. In early 2003, several economies in Asia, including Hong Kong and China, were affected by the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS. Several confirmed or suspected SARS cases were reported in early 2004 in Beijing and Anhui Province in China. In addition, lethal outbreaks of avian influenza A (H5N1) infection among poultry were reported by several countries in Asia, including China in 2005. In March 2007, a new fatal case of avian influenza was reported in Anhui Province in China. If there is a recurrence of an outbreak of SARS or avian influenza, it may adversely affect our total net revenues, growth and profits. For instance, a recurrence of SARS, avian influenza or any other epidemic may reduce the level of economic activity in affected areas and negatively impact international trade activities involving China, which could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, health or other government regulations may require temporary closure of our offices, government offices or the offices of our customers, which will severely disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our total net revenues, growth and profits. 19 TOC Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues to, among other things, pay dividends and make distributions. Because almost all of our future revenues will be in the form of Renminbi, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenues generated in Renminbi to fund future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. There are significant restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi, including the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell and/or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents at banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the PRC, or SAFE, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. The value of our ordinary shares and our ADSs, and the value of your investment in our company, may decrease due to changes in the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. The value of our ordinary shares and our ADSs will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and if the Renminbi appreciates against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial condition and the price of our ordinary shares and our ADSs may be adversely affected. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries and variable interest entities in China would be reduced. The value of your investment in our ADSs may fluctuate with the foreign exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Renminbi, because the value of our business is largely denominated in Renminbi, while our ADSs will be traded in U.S. dollars. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase our administrative burden and restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity. If our shareholders who are PRC residents fail to make any required applications and filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC law. In October 2005, SAFE issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund – Raising and Return Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 75, which took effect on November 1, 2005. Notice 75 supersedes prior SAFE regulations promulgated in January and April of 2005. Notice 75 requires PRC residents to register with the relevant local SAFE branch in connection with their establishment or control of an offshore entity established for the purpose of overseas equity financing involving onshore assets or equity interests held by them. The term “PRC residents” as used in Notice 75 includes PRC citizens as wells as other persons who habitually reside in the PRC for economic benefit. Such PRC residents are required to complete amended registrations with the relevant SAFE branch upon (i) injection of equity interests or assets of an onshore enterprise into the offshore entity, (ii) subsequent overseas equity financing by such offshore entity, or (iii) any material change in the shareholding or capital of the offshore entity, such as changes in share capital, share transfers and long-term equity or debt investments, and providing security. PRC residents who have already incorporated or gained control of offshore entities that made onshore investments in the PRC before Notice 75 was promulgated was required to register with the relevant local SAFE branch on or before March 31, 2006. In addition, such PRC residents are required to repatriate into China all of their dividend profits or capital gains from their shareholdings in the offshore entity within 180 days of their receipt of such profits or gains. 20 TOC The registration and amendment procedures set forth by Notice 75 are prerequisites for other approval and registration procedures necessary for capital inflow from the offshore entity, such as inbound investment or shareholders loans, or capital outflow to the offshore entity, such as the payment of profits or dividends, liquidating distributions, equity sale proceeds or the return of funds upon a capital reduction. A number of terms and provision in Notice 75 remain unclear. Because of uncertainty over how Notice 75 will be interpreted and implemented, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries' or variable interest entities’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as remitting dividends and foreign-currency denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Notice 75 requirements by our PRC resident shareholders. Despite our efforts to fully comply with the SAFE regulations, we cannot assure you that we will obtain, or receive waivers from, any necessary approvals or not be found in violation of the SAFE regulations or any other related foreign exchange regulations. In particular, we cannot assure you that we will be able to cause all our present or prospective PRC resident shareholders to comply with all SAFE regulations. A failure by our PRC resident shareholders to comply with Notice 75 or our inability to secure required approvals or registrations may subject us to fines or legal sanctions, limit our subsidiaries' ability to make distributions or pay dividends, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities or affect our ownership structure, any of which could affect our business and prospects. All participants in our existing equity compensation plans who are PRC citizens may be required to register with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional equity compensation plans for our directors, employees and other parties under PRC law. On April 6, 2007, the capital account department of SAFE issued the Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Option Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, Hui Zong Fa 2007 No. 78, or Circular 78. It is not clear at this time whether Circular 78 covers only equity compensation plans that provide for the grant of stock options or any type of equity compensation plan, such as a plan which authorizes the grant of restricted share awards. For any plan that is so covered and was adopted by a non-PRC listed company (such as our company) after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings by July 5, 2007 if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 will be burdensome and time consuming. Circular 78 has not yet been made publicly available or formally promulgated by SAFE, but it is our understanding that SAFE has begun enforcing its provisions. Nonetheless, we cannot predict whether it will continue to enforce this circular or adopt additional or different requirements with respect to equity compensation plans. If it is determined that our equity compensation plans are subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and the participants of our equity compensation plans who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our personnel, which is currently a significant component of the compensation of many of our PRC employees. In that case, our business operations may be materially adversely affected. 21 TOC Risks related to our ADSs and ordinary shares Your ability to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not offer you those rights unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. The future sales by our directors, officers and our current shareholders of a substantial number of our ordinary shares could result in the supply of our ADSs in the public market exceeding demand, which in turn could lower the market price of our ADSs. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares or ADSs, including those issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, in the public market, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. If any existing shareholder or shareholders sell a substantial amount of ordinary shares, the supply of our ADSs in the public market may exceed demand, which in turn could lower the market price for our ADSs and thus the value of your investment could be adversely affected. The market price for our ADSs may be volatile, and the value of your investment in our ADSs may decrease. The market price for our ADSs may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to the factors set forth elsewhere in this section, as well as: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or semi-annual operating results; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in the market price of Internet and PRC-related companies; · announcements of new products or services by us or our competitors; · conditions in the international trade industry; and · announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. 22 TOC In particular, the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other PRC technology companies that have listed their securities in the United States may affect the trading and price volatility of our ADSs. Recently, a number of PRC companies have listed their securities, or are preparing to list their securities, in the United States. Some of these securities have experienced significant volatility, including significant price declines in connection with or in the periods following their initial public offerings. The trading performances of these companies’ securities may affect the investor sentiment towards PRC companies listed in the United States in general, which may impact the trading performance of our ADSs. These broad market and industry factors may significantly affect the market price and volatility of our ADSs. You may not be able to exercise your right to vote. The SEC generally exempts foreign private issuers such as our company from its proxy solicitation requirements. As a holder of ADSs, you may instruct the depositary of our ADSs to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs, but only if we ask the depositary to ask for your instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw the ordinary shares. However, you may not know about the meeting enough in advance to withdraw the shares. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ordinary shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and there may be nothing you can do if the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you request. We and the depositary may amend the deposit agreement at any time without your consent, and by doing so may change your rights thereunder in a manner with which you disagree. We may agree with the depositary to amend the deposit agreement without your consent for any reason. If you continue to hold your ADRs after being notified of such amendment, you will be deemed to have agreed to such amendment. In the event you disagree with any such amendment, your only recourse may be to sell your ADSs. You may not receive distributions on ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you and these restrictions may reduce the value of your ADSs. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. However, the depositary is not required to do so if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. We have no obligation to register ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities under U.S. securities laws. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may reduce the value of your ADSs. 23 TOC You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems it expedient to do so in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. We have not adopted any policy regarding the closing of our books relating to our ADSs, nor is there any provision under Cayman Islands or New York law, or the deposit agreement, that would prevent the transferability of ADSs. Under the deposit agreement, however, the depository may close its books for our ADR facility from time to time at its discretion, which may prevent you from transferring your ADSs when you wish to do so. If our subsidiaries are restricted from paying dividends and other distributions to us, our primary source of funds would decrease. We are a holding company, and we rely on dividends from our Chinese subsidiaries and servicing, licensing and other fees paid to our Chinese subsidiaries by our Chinese affiliated entities and their subsidiaries, including servicing any debt we may incur. If our subsidiaries incur debts on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debts may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us, which in turn would limit our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. PRC regulations permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are also required to set aside a portion of their after-tax profits according to PRC accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds that are not distributable as cash dividends. Other than restrictions imposed by PRC law as set forth under Item 8 of this annual report, “Financial Information — Consolidated statements and other financial information — Dividend policy,” and except as set forth below, our subsidiaries in China are not currently subject to any restriction that would prevent them from paying any dividend or any other form of distribution to us, but there can be no assurance that PRC legal restrictions will not prevent the payment of dividends or distributions in the future. Relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their retained earnings, if any, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, the statutory general reserve fund, which requires annual appropriations of 10% of net after-tax income should be set aside prior to payment of any dividends. As a result of these and other restrictions under PRC laws and regulations, our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to us either in the form of dividends, loans or advances, restricted portion amounted to approximately 50.41% of our total consolidated net assets as of December 31, 2007. Even though we currently do not require any such dividends, loans or advances from our PRC subsidiaries, we may in the future require additional cash resources from our PRC subsidiaries due to changes in business conditions, to fund future acquisitions or developments, or merely to declare and pay dividends or distributions to our shareholders, although we currently have no intention to do so. 24 TOC Pursuant to the new Chinese Enterprise Income Tax Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, dividends payable by an foreign invested enterprises, or FIEs, to its foreign investors are subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless the foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. The Cayman Islands, where we are incorporated, does not have a tax treaty with China. Although the new tax law contemplates the possibility of exemptions from withholding taxes for China-sourced income of FIEs, the Chinese tax authorities have not promulgated any related implementation rules and it remains unclear whether we would be able to obtain exemptions from Chinese withholding taxes for dividends distributed to us by our Chinese subsidiaries. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and our ability to protect our rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law, Cap. 22 (Law 3 of 1961, as consolidated and revised) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors and actions by minority shareholders are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. Cayman Islands law in this area may not be as established and may differ from provisions under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in the United States. As a result, our public shareholders may face different considerations in protecting their interests in actions against our management, directors or our controlling shareholder than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. The rights of shareholders and the responsibilities of management, members of the board of directors and controlling shareholders under Cayman Islands law, such as in the areas of fiduciary duties, are different from those applicable to a company incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. For example, the Cayman Islands courts are unlikely: · to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and · in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, to impose liabilities against us based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. As a result, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in connection with actions taken by our management, members of our board of directors or our controlling shareholder than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. 25 TOC Our ability to protect our rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, our ability to protect our interests if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court may be limited. Your ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, will be limited because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, a substantial portion of our operations are in China and the majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and we conduct substantially all of our operations through our operating subsidiaries and variable interest entities in China. Most of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States and substantially all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the U.S. securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. For more information regarding the relevant laws of the Cayman Islands and China, see Item 10 of this annual report, “Additional Information — Taxation — United States federal income taxation — Enforceability of civil liabilities.” We may be at risk of securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against companies following declines in the market price of their securities. If we are faced with such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition and the trading price of our ADSs. We are required to implement additional controls and procedures in finance and accounting systems in the future to satisfy new reporting requirements. Failure to complete the required assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting or unavailability of an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting provided by our independent registered public accounting firm could result in the loss of confidence in the reliability of such controls, which may adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, including expanded disclosures and accelerated reporting requirements. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other requirements may increase our costs and require additional management resources. We have recently been upgrading and implementing additional controls and procedures in our finance and accounting systems and will need to continue to do so as we grow our business and organization and to satisfy new reporting requirements. If we are unable to complete the required assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting or if our independent registered public accounting firm qualifies its report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our internal controls over financial reporting, which could adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. 26 TOC Our management has determined that our internal control over financial reporting as at December 31, 2007 was not effective. During the audit of 2007 financial statements, our independent registered public accounting firm identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting due to (i) inadequate accounting and finance personnel to be commensurate with the Company’s financial accounting and reporting requirements; and (ii) inadequate communication between the audit committee and the internal audit department which affected the effectiveness of the Company’s monitoring activities and anti-fraud program. However, it is possible that we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify other significant deficiencies or material weakness in future periods. Such results could cause our investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our internal controls over financial reporting, which could adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will continue to incur increased costs and devote significant management resources to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our ordinary shares or ADSs will be a penny stock which imposes significant restrictions on broker-dealers recommending our securities for purchase. The SEC's regulations define "penny stock" to include ordinary shares that have a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. These regulations include the following requirements: broker-dealers must deliver, prior to the transaction, a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market; broker-dealers must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer and its registered representative; broker-dealers must disclose current quotations for the securities; if a broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealers presumed control over the market; and a broker-dealer must furnish its customers with monthly statements disclosing recent price information for all penny stocks held in the customer's account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Additional sales practice requirements are imposed on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and must have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to sale. If our ordinary shares or ADSs become subject to these penny stock rules, these disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for our securities, if such trading market should ever develop. Accordingly, this may result in a lack of liquidity in our ordinary shares or ADSs, and investors may be unable to sell our securities at prices considered reasonable by them. Item 