ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the risk factors described below, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business It is anticipated that we will continue to incur losses and negative cash flow from operations for the foreseeable future. Following the Merger, we are still a company with a limited operating history although we have generated minimal revenue. While our new business includes personal health care record and storage products that are currently available, we are nevertheless still at an early stage in developing a business model that will enable us to generate significant revenue from the use of our products. Prior to the Merger, MMR financed its operations primarily through private placements of MMR capital stock and from secured loans from The RHL Group, Inc., a wholly-owned affiliate of MMR's founder and Chief Executive Officer, and our current Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Robert H. Lorsch. Although we expect to continue to receive financing from The RHL Group, Inc., we have also continued to incur losses from operations and need additional sources of financing to fund our operations until we develop a profitable business. Even with additional funds from The RHL Group, Inc., there is no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient revenue and working capital to fund our operations and create a sustainable going concern. As a result, it is expected that we will continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. If we fail to obtain additional financing, we will be unable to fund our operations. We expect that the cash used in our operations will increase for the next several years. Although we generate some cash from our operations, we currently need to obtain financing not only to fund our operations, but also in order to meet the obligations for installment payments under the Creditor Plan (including to our former Chief Executive Officer and former Chief Financial Officer) of $709,000, as well as the obligations under the subordinated secured indebtedness owed to The RHL Group, Inc. (which note payable had a balance of $822,520 at December 31, 2008). We will also need financing in order to fund operations until we can become cash flow positive, which is not expected to occur in the foreseeable future. For a description and copy of the Creditor Plan see Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" below and Exhibit 10.5 hereto. For a description of obligations to our former Chief Executive Officer and former Chief Financial Officer see Item 11 "Executive Compensation" below and Exhibits 10.17 and 10.18 to this annual report on Form 10-K. Other than to meet the Creditor Plan obligations, our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: The pace of market adoption of current and future products; The length of sales cycles and implementation efforts for major corporate accounts; The launch of new products; and The build up of a sales and service delivery organization. If additional debt financing is raised in the future, we may be required to grant lenders a security interest in all or a portion of our assets and issue warrants to acquire our equity securities, resulting in dilution to our stockholders. In addition, any such debt financing may involve restrictive covenants, including limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire or assign intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Further, our ability to raise funding through the sale of equity securities will be significantly limited by our existing authorized but unissued common stock. Following the Merger, we have a limited amount of available common stock and any changes to our 15 certificate of incorporation to increase our authorized share capital would require a vote of our stockholders, which could be time consuming and costly to obtain. Future additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, then we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of one or more of our products. We are a company with limited operating history and currently have only a small management team and staff, which could limit our ability to effectively seize market opportunities and grow our business. Our operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in a growing business enterprise, including the likelihood of operating losses. As a smaller company with a limited operating history, our success will depend, among other factors, upon how we manage the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with the growth of a new business, products and channels of distribution, and current and future development, as well as in the competitive emerging healthcare records management business. In addition, as a company with a limited operating history we have only a small management team and staff to grow our business and manage the risks inherent in a growing business enterprise. These factors could limit our ability to effectively seize market opportunities and grow our business. Although we continue to develop improvements to our MyMedicalRecords PHR product and other uses for its technology, there can be no assurances that we will be able to develop these improvements in a timely manner. Further, the market for consumer health information management products is in an early development stage and there can be no guarantees that there will be marketplace acceptance for our MyMedicalRecords PHR product or our MyESafeDepositBox product, the failure of which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Fully functional versions of our MyMedicalRecords PHR product and our MyESafeDepositBox product are currently available in the market place. While we continue to design and develop additional features that we believe are necessary for the ongoing competitiveness of our products, there can be no assurances that we will be able to develop these features in a timely manner. Further, the marketplace for consumer health information and secure document management products is in an early stage and there can be no guarantee that there will be marketplace acceptance for the enhanced products once these additional improvements are completed or for our MyMedicalRecords Pro product once ready. If there is no marketplace acceptance of our products, it would have a material adverse affect on our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on outside suppliers and any disruptions in the supply of services could materially and adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. We are totally reliant on outside telecommunications, data center and information technology service providers and developers to build and maintain our product offering. For example, we rely on third-party vendors for website development, communications and server space. Although these suppliers are not "sole" source suppliers, should any one of our current suppliers be unable to supply services for any reason, because of the time and expense involved in negotiating new supply arrangements, it could severely hamper our ability to keep our product competing in the market and to continue to improve and develop our products as planned. Any significant limitation or failure of our technology systems that are critical to our operations could constrain our operations. We are highly dependent upon the use of third-party technology systems to operate our business. Any failures in these systems could disrupt our business and subject us to losses. Moreover, although we have in place certain disaster recovery plans and backup servers, we may experience system delays and interruptions as a result of natural disasters, power failures, acts of war, and third-party failures. Potential system failures and the cost necessary to address them could result in material financial loss or costs, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal claims and liability, which in turn could negatively impact our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 16 We are dependent on our Chief Executive Officer and the loss of him could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further, we may not be able to attract qualified officers to replace him or other key management personnel necessary to grow our business. We are highly reliant on the services of our Chief Executive Officer, Robert H. Lorsch. If Mr. Lorsch left, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further, we must continue to hire experienced managers to continue to grow our business. As a company with limited operating history and no proven track record, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining new individuals. If we are not successful in attracting management, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our management will be required to devote substantial time to comply with public company regulations. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as well as rules implemented by the SEC impose various requirements on public companies, even those that are not listed. In light of the Merger and change in our management and business, our new management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these requirements, but do not have recent experience with these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time- consuming and costly. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting when required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting and related expense and expend significant management efforts. We will need to hire additional accounting and financial staff to satisfy the ongoing requirements of Section 404. We will incur expenses to remediate significant deficiencies that together constitute a material weakness in our present internal control over financial reporting and in our ability to document, test and certify our system of internal control. The inability to do so in a timely manner may result in the inability to detect or prevent material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements and could also result in the loss of investor confidence. Our independent auditors identified material weaknesses in MMR's internal control over financial reporting in connection with the audit for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. These material weaknesses relate to an inadequate consolidated financial statement close-process and cut-off of expenses, lack of accounting staff with financial expertise, lack of supporting documentation and schedules for certain transactions and inadequate journal-entry review process. This is due in part to the small size of MMR prior to the Merger. Although we are developing a plan of action to correct these material weaknesses, there is no guarantee that our efforts will be successful. If we are not able to remediate the existing material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, we may not have adequate, accurate or timely financial information and our disclosure controls and procedures may not be effective. Further, material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements may go undetected and we may be unable to meet our reporting obligations or comply with the requirements of the SEC, which may subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC. If this occurs, there could be an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements. In addition to remedying the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we need to bring our financial reporting procedures up to public-company standards so as to allow management to report on, and, when required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our independent registered public accountants to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we will need to incur additional expenses and diversion of management's time in this area. We will be required to incur significant costs in documenting, evaluating, testing and remediating our internal control procedures and systems, including the hiring of consultants or additional personnel. Such actions, while necessary and beneficial, will adversely affect our financial results. 17 We face substantial competition. While we believe that our MyMedicalRecords PHR product occupies a unique niche in the marketplace, other companies offer similar services that compete for subscriber enrollment from the same patient population, and could compete more directly with us by developing processes and technology functionally the same as those that form our MyMedicalRecords PHR product. Most of these competitors are larger, more deeply funded companies. To the extent they have more success in obtaining market share and customer acceptance of their products, it could have a negative effect on our ability to grow our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our growth will depend on our ability to develop our brand and any failure to do so could limit our business prospects, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We believe that establishing a strong brand will be critical to achieving widespread acceptance and adoption of our products and services. Promoting and positioning our brand will depend largely on the success of our marketing efforts, distribution channels and ability to provide high quality service. Establishing a significant brand presence for an on-line company often requires substantial marketing investment, and many "dot.com" companies have failed to generate the necessary adoption rates even after such a process. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses we incur in building the MyMedicalRecords brand. If we are not successful in building the MyMedicalRecords brand, it could limit our business prospects, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The handling of medical records is highly regulated. Not only could we be subject to substantial liability for mishandling records if we fail to comply with applicable requirements or if third-parties gain unauthorized access to records or servers but our products may need constant revisions or modifications to comply with an increasingly complex regulatory regime. The proper handling of medical records is subject to extensive state and federal regulations and legal requirements, and we anticipate incurring significant costs to keep informed of and in compliance with such regulations and requirements. The volume and complexity of the regulations is daunting and many have changed substantially in recent years and all are subject to the uncertainties of interpretation. Although we are not currently required to comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, commonly referred to as HIPAA, we are committed to implementing our products and services in accordance with the privacy and security standards and requirements of HIPAA. Any determination that we are in violation of the applicable regulations or requirements could create substantial liability. Further, our products and services may become subject to greater regulation, particularly at the federal level. We may have to reduce, enhance or remove certain offerings to comply with new regulatory standards. If we are not able to effectively modify our product and service offerings to adapt to stricter standards, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business and our results of operations and financial condition. Further, there is a risk that third-parties could gain unauthorized access to our users' records or servers. While this risk of accessing user data is reduced because user records are stored in image form, we are still exposed to liability from unauthorized third-party access to user accounts. Because of the types of agreements that we enter into with our customers for our products, there is a time lag between the date of the agreement or license and product launch and revenue generation, which may be significant. In the ordinary course of our business, we enter into agreements with certain customers that typically provide for customization of our product. The degree of customization can vary from simple modifications required to co-brand to highly tailored product modifications, which require significant development efforts on our part. Because these customer arrangements typically do not provide for payment of revenues until product launch, there is often a time lag between the date we enter into an agreement or license with a particular customer and when we begin generating revenues. This time lag can be significant if there is a high degree of customization involved requiring extensive product development efforts. Thus, even if we are successful in negotiating agreements and licenses with many customers to co-brand or private label our products for such customers, because of the nature of our arrangements with our customers, there is a risk that it may be some time before we generate revenues from such arrangements, if at all. 18 We may not be able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. In order to compete effectively in our developing industry, we must distinguish our product and service offerings from that of our competitors. Such distinction will depend partially on the strength of our enforcement efforts regarding our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, and similar intellectual property rights, which in turn depends on our ability to effectively assert our own intellectual property rights. If we are not able to effectively assert our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to distinguish our product and service offerings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects. Further, our competitors may develop and use similar but distinct intellectual property, and we do not anticipate being able to prevent them from effectively competing with us despite our intention to invest substantially in the development and protection of our intellectual property. Third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. The software and Internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we expand our product offerings into areas where larger companies with large patent portfolios compete, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. We could receive claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, including claims regarding patents, copyrights and trademarks. Any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations. If we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. Our executive officers and directors may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, those of our stockholders generally. Our executive officers and directors may have interests that are different from, or are in addition to, those of our stockholders generally. These interests include having subordinated debt with a balance of $822,520 at December 31, 2008 secured by a security interest in substantially all of our assets, the provision and continuation of indemnification and insurance arrangements for our directors, as well as certain other interests described under Item 13 "Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions, and Director Independence." Notably, our current President, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Robert H. Lorsch, controls 26.5% of our voting capital stock (see Item 12 "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters"). Mr. Lorsch's beneficial ownership of a significant amount of our capital stock might delay or prevent a change in control and may impede or prevent transaction in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price is expected to continue to be volatile, and the market price of our common stock may drop further. The market price of our common stock could continue to be subject to significant fluctuations following the Merger. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our operating results, financial condition, profitability and/or reputation. We do not expect to pay cash dividends, and accordingly, stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment. We anticipate that we will retain our earnings, if any, for future growth and therefore do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the future. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to stockholders. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. 19 Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and applicable Delaware law may prevent or discourage third parties or our stockholders from attempting to replace our management or influencing significant decisions. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: dividing our Board of Directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; authorizing our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws except with 66.7% stockholder approval; and requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders' meetings. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for five years unless the holder's acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our Board of Directors. Together, these charter and statutory provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. There is currently a limited trading market for our common stock, which may limit our stockholders' ability to sell shares of our stock. Our common stock is currently quoted on the over-the-counter bulletin board, or OTC BB. Because of the limited trading volume on the OTC BB of our common stock and the penny stock regulations described below, our investors may not be able to sell their shares due to the absence of a trading market. We may be subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions, which could make it difficult for stockholders to sell their shares of our stock. SEC regulations generally define "penny stocks" as equity securities that have a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. As of April 9, 2009, the last sale price for our common stock was $0.26 per share. If we do not fall within any exemptions from the "penny stock" definition, we will be subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which regulations are commonly referred to as the "Penny Stock Rules." The Penny Stock Rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers prior to selling penny stocks, which may make it burdensome to conduct transactions in our shares. If our shares are subject to the Penny Stock Rules, it may be difficult to sell shares of our stock, and because it may be difficult to find quotations for shares of our stock, it may be impossible to accurately price an investment in our shares. There can be no assurance that our common stock will qualify for an exemption from the Penny Stock Rules, or that if an exemption currently exists, that we will continue to qualify for such exemption. In any event, we are subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of a penny stock if the SEC determines that such a restriction would be in the public interest. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, sales practice requirements may also limit a stockholder's ability to buy and sell our stock. In addition to the Penny Stock Rules described above, the FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the 20 investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer's financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, the FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares. A majority of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock are restricted securities and may not be freely resold to the public. When the restriction on any or all of these shares is lifted, and the shares are sold in the open market, the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Currently, as a result of the Merger, a majority of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock are "restricted securities" as defined under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and may only be sold pursuant to an effective registration statement or an exemption from registration, if available. Although Rule 144 may not be immediately available to permit resales of shares received in the Merger or issued upon the exercise of warrants issued pursuant to the Creditor Plan because of our former shell company status, once available, and given the number of shares that would no longer be restricted, sales of shares by our shareholders, whether pursuant to Rule 144 or otherwise, could have an immediate negative effect upon the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 