D. Risk factors Risks Related to Our Business We currently generate a substantial portion of our total net revenues from either PRC government agencies or in connection with PRC government agency filings, and our failure to maintain a continued working relationship with certain PRC government agencies and, in particular, the PRC Inspections Administration, would result in the reduction or loss of a substantial portion of our total net revenues. Sales of our enterprise software and related customer maintenance services and software development services that are either used by the State Administration for Quality Supervision and Inspection and Quarantine of the PRC, or the PRC Inspections Administration, or by regional PRC inspection and quarantine bureaus, have accounted for a substantial portion of our total net revenues. In the near future, we expect to generate a substantial portion of our total net revenues through (i) sales of enterprise software and related customer maintenance services and (ii) B2C e-commerce business. Net revenues from sales of enterprise software and related customer maintenance services for PRC Inspections Administration filings accounted for 81.1%, 66.2% and 52.5% of our total net revenues in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our working relationship with the PRC Inspections Administration or other PRC government agencies in connection with new enterprise software or in relation to the continued use of our existing enterprise software. If the PRC Inspections Administration ceases to cooperate with us in researching and developing new enterprise software; ceases to use the electronic infrastructure that we helped develop and build; reduces its spending on, or commitment to, or ceases or slows down the implementation of, the digitization of its processes for data collection and administration; encourages our competitors or alternate means of data collection; or requires us to lower the prices of our products and services; then our market position, revenues and profitability would be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, such a change in our relationship with the PRC Inspections Administration could result in the loss of what we perceive to be our first mover advantage in developing software products compatible with the systems implemented by the PRC Inspections Administration. The loss of such an advantage would result in slower growth and/or reduced sales, which would require us to increase our research and development and sales and marketing expenditures. For example, Beijing iTowNet Cyber Technology Ltd., or iTowNet, has developed its own platform for providing software development services and now provides software development services directly to its customers, such as the PRC Inspections Administration, that are similar to the software development services that we provide to our customers. As a result, iTowNet became one of our competitors in our software development services business. Due to the fact that iTowNet is majority owned by the PRC Inspections Administration, our software development services relating to the PRC Inspections Administration could become obsolete, which would result in the reduction or loss of substantially all of our revenues from that business. Our revenues would be adversely affected if the PRC Inspections Administration, or any other government agency to which our products relate, develops, endorses or adopts an alternative to our enterprise software. Our business would be adversely affected if the PRC Inspections Administration or any other government agency or affiliate to which our products relate decides to develop its software and platform internally, endorses software provided by others or permits filings to be made online without independently produced software. In such case, we would not only face enhanced competition, but our software products and services relating to the PRC Inspections Administration or any such government agency or affiliate could become obsolete, which would result in the reduction or loss of substantially all of our revenues. 5 Table of Contents In August 2005, the PRC Inspections Administration selected our company as the winning bidder in connection with the PRC Inspections Administration’s request for proposals for the development of a software product that has certain basic functionalities similar to those of iDeclare.CIQ and iProcess.CIQ. The PRC Inspections Administration agreed to pay a one-time fee of RMB3.3 million to purchase the ownership of the software product that we developed. In February 2006, the PRC Inspections Administration commenced the distribution of the software products that our company developed, free-of-charge to end-users. As certain basic functionalities of the newly developed software products are similar to those of iDeclare.CIQ and iProcess.CIQ, the provision of such software products free-of-charge by the PRC Inspections Administration has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are in the process of diversifying our business focus to include other businesses in addition to the sales of our enterprise software and related customer maintenance services and the provision of software development services. Our new potential business ventures and limited operating history in such potential business ventures may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business, and our limited resources may affect our ability to manage the growth we expect to achieve. We generated a significant portion of our total net revenues from the sales of our enterprise software and related customer maintenance services and B2C e-commerce business in 2013. Currently, we are in the process of expanding our business focus from the development of software products and the provision of software development services to other potential business ventures, such as real estate. We anticipate that a material portion of our net revenue in the future will be derived from businesses that are not directly related to sales of our enterprise software and related customer maintenance services or the provision of software development services. In April 2010, we began offering our B2C e-commerce food and household products through our web portal. In April 2011, we began investing in real estate development. As our B2C e-commerce and real estate development businesses have limited operating histories, we may not successfully develop either of them into one of our primary businesses. We do not have a significant operating history with respect to our B2C e-commerce business and our real estate development business upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. Furthermore, as part of our operation and expansion, we need to continue to develop and improve our staff training, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to efficiently or effectively manage or grow our new businesses, and any failure to do so may limit our future growth and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our significant shareholders, related parties and management personnel have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may result in their taking corporate actions which you may not believe to be in your best interests or in the best interests of our company. As of May 14, 2014, Shuang Wang, our Chief Executive Officer and a director of our company, or Mr. Wang, and Min Dong, our Senior Vice President of Legal Affairs, Administration and Human Resources and the spouse of Mr. Wang, or Ms. Dong, beneficially own 17.6% of our ordinary shares. Mr. Wang and Ms. Dong have substantial influence over the management and policies of our company and the outcome of most corporate actions. In addition, Mr. Yong Ping Duan, or Mr. Duan, and Technology Pioneer Corp., or Technology Pioneer, beneficially own 18.5% and 8.0% of our ordinary shares, respectively. As a result, Mr. Wang, Ms. Dong, Mr. Duan and Technology Pioneer have the power to take corporate actions which other shareholders may not believe are in their best interests or in the best interests of our company. There can be no assurance that Mr. Wang, Ms. Dong, Mr. Duan and Technology Pioneer will not cause our company to take such corporate actions. Mr. Wang and Ms. Dong beneficially own 100.0% of Ninetowns Import & Export e-Commerce Co., Ltd., or Import & Export, which in turn owns a 49.0% equity interest in iTowNet, the operator of the PRC Inspections Administration’s data exchange platforms and electronic processing system. iTowNet is 51.0% owned by the PRC Inspections Administration and operates the data exchange platforms that interface between international trade enterprises using our enterprise software and the PRC Inspections Administration’s internal electronic processing systems. iTowNet receives a fee of RMB5.0 from the end-users for each submission made over its data exchange platforms. Mr. Wang is a non-executive director and the vice-chairman of the board of directors of iTowNet. Due to their ownership interest in iTowNet and Mr. Wang’s position as a director of iTowNet, the interests of Mr. Wang and Ms. Dong may also differ from those of our other shareholders. Mr. Xiaoguang Ren, who is our President, or Mr. Ren, is also a non- executive director of iTowNet. Mr. Bolin Wu, who is our General Manager, Research and Development and Chief Technology Officer, or Mr. Wu, is the sole supervisor of iTowNet. As the supervisor of iTowNet, Mr. Wu is responsible for overseeing the financial operations of iTowNet, the actions of its board of directors and senior management and their compliance with relevant laws and iTowNet’s charter documents. iTowNet has developed its own platform for providing software development services and now provides software development services directly to its customers, such as the PRC Inspections Administration, that are similar to the software development services that we provide to our customers. As a result, iTowNet became one of our competitors in our software development services business. Due to the fact that iTowNet is majority owned by the PRC Inspections Administration, our software development services relating to the PRC Inspections Administration could become obsolete, which would result in the reduction or loss of substantially all of our revenues from that business. 6 Table of Contents A significant portion of our total net revenues are generated by our major customers, and the loss of all or part of our net revenues from any of these customers would result in a decline in our total net revenues and a significant increase in our sales and marketing expenditures. As of May 14, 2014, we have franchise agreements with our four franchisees including (i) Beijing Ninetowns Zhi Fang Software Technology Co., Ltd., or Ninetowns Zhi Fang, (ii) Beijing Ninetowns Xin He Software Technology Co., Ltd., or Ninetowns Xin He, (iii) Guangzhou Ninetowns Wang Li Software Co., Ltd., or Ninetowns Wang Li and (iv) Shenzhen Ninetowns Enke Software Technology Co., Ltd., or Ninetowns Enke, who as a result of their purchases of enterprise software and related customer maintenance services for distribution to end-users, are also four of our largest customers. We currently do not have any distributor. • Our net revenues from sales of our enterprise software and related customer maintenance services from Ninetowns Zhi Fang were approximately RMB25.3 million, RMB22.2 million and RMB22.0 million (US$3.6 million), which represented 33.7%, 24.5% and 20.4% of our total net revenues for 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. • Our net revenues from sales of our enterprise software and related customer maintenance services from Ninetowns Xin He were approximately RMB12.3 million, RMB16.0 million and RMB16.3 million (US$2.7 million), which represented 16.4%, 17.7% and 15.1% of our total net revenues for 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. • Our net revenues from sales of our enterprise software and related customer maintenance services from Ninetowns Wang Li were approximately RMB8.6 million, RMB8.9 million and RMB8.5 million (US$1.4 million), which represented 11.4%, 9.8% and 7.9% of our total net revenues for 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. • Our net revenues from sales of our enterprise software and related customer maintenance services from Ninetowns Enke were approximately RMB1.7 million, RMB1.9 million and RMB2.0 million (US$0.3 million), which represented 2.2% , 2.1% and 1.9% of our total net revenues in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. To our knowledge, none of our franchisees are PRC government agencies. In the event one or more of our customers discussed above discontinues their businesses or their dealings with us, and we are unable to find an adequate replacement for such customer in a timely manner, we would suffer a decline in total net revenues and in turn would need to significantly increase our sales and marketing expenditures. Our existing major shareholders have substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control, which could in turn reduce the market price of your ADSs. Our executive officers, directors and shareholders with 5.0% or more shareholding of our company and their affiliates beneficially own approximately 57.0% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Such concentration of ownership might have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company which could in turn reduce the market price of our ADSs and the voting and other rights of our other shareholders. Our failure to market our customer maintenance services to our existing users could impair our planned revenue growth. We offer one year of customer maintenance services with our iDeclare.CIQ basic package, and charge a fee of RMB1,500 per licensee for customer maintenance services each year thereafter. In 2013, we renewed annual maintenance service contracts with approximately 18,105 users whose contracts were due for renewal in 2013, representing approximately 12.4% of our users whose annual maintenance service contracts were due for renewal in 2013. Not all of our users and potential users were accustomed to being charged for this type of service. In 2013, we recognized approximately RMB53.0 million (US$8.8 million) from the provision of customer maintenance services (including the fees we collected from the pay-per-transaction users) which represents 49% of our total net revenue. Our success in marketing customer maintenance services to our users depends in part on whether users require software updates. Software updates can implement modifications to forms, programs and information systems necessary to address changes imposed by the PRC Inspections Administration. Therefore, the desirability and usefulness of our customer maintenance services is dependent in part on changes occurring in government policies. If we fail to market our customer maintenance services to, or to collect customer maintenance service fees from, our users in the future, our planned revenue growth could be impaired. 7 Table of Contents We currently depend on our iDeclare.CIQ product for a majority of our total net revenues and our failure to develop or license additional enterprise software or a decline in demand for iDeclare.CIQ could materially reduce our total net revenues. Sales of iDeclare.CIQ and related customer maintenance services accounted for approximately 81.1%, 66.2% and 52.5% of our total net revenues in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Any of the following events could materially reduce our total net revenues. • any decrease in the demand for or price of iDeclare.CIQ or any increase in competition to iDeclare.CIQ, including but not limited to as a result of the PRC Inspections Administration’s and iTowNet’s endorsement of a comparable product and changes in government policies, • any significant shift in our marketing efforts, • any lasting or prolonged interruption that prevents our enterprise software from delivering data to government entities due to system failures or other factors, • any other adverse development specific to iDeclare.CIQ or • a significant slowdown of China’s economy. A substantial portion of our profits are derived from non-operating income. We cannot guarantee the sustainability of our non- operating income and our financial conditions may be adversely affected if our non-operating income decreases. We received a substantial amount of income from our investment activities in 2013, including investment in publicly-listed securities in China’s A-Share stock markets and equity securities and call and put options in the U.S. securities markets. We generated approximately RMB32.7 million, RMB113.6 million and RMB6.5 million (US$1.1 million) of gains on sales of short term investments in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. We do not have professional investment expertise or employ professional investment personnel. The success of our investments depends on factors that are not entirely within our control, including the performances and volatility of stock markets in China and U.S. Therefore, we cannot guarantee the sustainability of our gains on sales of short term investments. Should we lose money in our investment activities, our financial condition may be significantly and adversely affected. Competition could reduce our profit margins and revenues. We compete with companies that have expertise in marketing and providing government-related software products and services. There are companies that provide software products and services similar to ours. In addition, there are companies in China that provide such products and services to PRC government agencies other than the PRC Inspections Administration. In particular, there are regional software providers in China implementing systems for provincial branches of government agencies such as the Customs General Administration of the PRC, or PRC Customs. Furthermore, we are aware of one other software provider in China, Fujian Rongji Software Development Co., Ltd., or Rongji, that provides enterprise software for PRC Inspections Administration-related filings. We are also aware of several software developers that provide software development services to our customers, in particular to iTowNet. See Item 4 of this annual report, “Information on the Company — Business overview — Competition.” There can be no assurance that other companies will not pursue opportunities relating to the needs of international trade enterprises making government filings in China. Our competitors may have greater marketing, programming, research and development, capital and other resources than we do. These resources could enable our competitors to take aggressive action to gain market share. Additionally, we face competition from the free software distributed by the PRC Inspections Administration and from companies with established reputations and political relationships with PRC government agencies. If we do not compete effectively or if we experience any pricing pressure from our potential competitors, we may experience loss of market share and reduced profit margins and revenues. Future acquisitions, investments and business initiatives could divert our management’s attention, which may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and expose us to potential risks. In April 2010, we began offering our B2C e-commerce food and household products through our web portal, www.tootoo.cn. In 2011, we commenced our PRC real estate development activities by acquiring land use rights and majority interests in companies engaging in the real estate development business. If we are presented with additional opportunities, we may acquire additional complementary companies, products or technologies, or invest in new businesses. Future acquisitions and investments and the subsequent integration of new companies, assets or business ventures would require significant time and attention from our management. The diversion of our management’s attention to integrate such acquisitions or investments and any difficulties encountered in any integration process could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the integration of new operations, technologies and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies, the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions and investments, and potential loss of, or harm to, our relationships with employees, customers and suppliers. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our success depends substantially on the expertise and experience of our executive officers, who have extensive skills in and knowledge about the international trade industry and the software industry in China. They also have established relationships with our major customers, our suppliers, government regulators and our shareholders. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our executive officers. The loss of services of any or all of our executive officers in the absence of suitable replacements could have a material adverse effect on our operations and future profitability. 8 Table of Contents In addition, if any of our executive officers joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, suppliers, research and development expertise and employees and our relationship with the PRC Inspections Administration could be materially and adversely affected. Although all of our executive officers have entered into service agreements with us which contain confidentiality and non-competition provisions, it may be difficult to enforce such provisions in China in light of uncertainties relating to China’s legal system. See “— Risks related to doing business in China — The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to you and could adversely affect our ability to provide our products and services in China.” Our inability to attract and retain experienced personnel may adversely affect our ability to create enterprise software for international trade enterprises or provide software development services to PRC government agencies. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain, train and motivate highly skilled employees, including experienced software engineers, technical personnel and sales and marketing personnel, all of whom are in great demand in China. In particular, we depend on software engineers who have expertise and experience in creating enterprise software for international trade enterprises as well as providing software development services to PRC government agencies. We also need to hire additional employees who are experienced in the B2C e-commerce and real estate development businesses. We may not be able to attract or retain the key personnel that we need to achieve our business objectives. At times our ability to find and train new employees who have the requisite business experience may not meet the growing demands of our business. As the PRC economy continues to develop, demand for personnel with the skills that we require is expected to increase, which could raise our costs or make it impracticable for us to hire skilled or experienced personnel. Certain of our senior software engineers, technical officers or staff members are not bound by non-competition agreements and those who are not bound could decide to resign or work for our competitors at any time without any contractual restriction. The departure of any of these personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to create enterprise software for international trade enterprises, provide software development services to PRC government agencies or develop and expand our business. If we continue to grant employee share options and other share-based compensation in the future, our net income could be materially and adversely affected. We have the 2004 Plan (as amended) and the 2006 Share Incentive Plan, or collectively, the Plans. As of December 31, 2013, we granted options under the Plans with the right to purchase a total of 6,185,469 ordinary shares and we granted 3,259,979 non-vested shares, of which 2,843,503 unexercised options and 53,852 unvested shares had been returned to the pool of our share-based awards as a result of resignation from employment by former employees. We account for compensation costs for certain share options using a fair-value based method and recognize expenses in our consolidated statement of operations in accordance with the relevant rules under U.S. GAAP, which may have a material and adverse effect on our reported earnings. Moreover, the additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of such incentive plan to us. However, if we reduce the scope of the Plans, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel, as share options are an important employee recruitment and retention tool. If we grant employee share options or other share-based compensation in the future, our net income could be adversely affected. We often commence work on software development projects based on verbal agreements and if our customers do not pay us for these services, our working capital requirements and expenses may increase without a corresponding increase in net revenues, which would adversely affect our profitability. As we believe is consistent with the practice of other software development companies in China engaged in government-related work, we often commence software development projects based on oral commitments from our customers. As a result, we may need to incur substantial expenses without assurance that we will be paid for our software development services. Furthermore, we may not recognize any revenue from software development projects in any given period because we recognize revenue from such services only when a contract has been signed. If our customers do not pay us, or delay paying us, for our software development services, our working capital requirements and expenses may increase without a corresponding increase in net revenues, which would adversely affect our profitability. 9 Table of Contents Programming errors or flaws in our enterprise software or other product defects could decrease market acceptance of our software, which would reduce our revenues and profitability. Software as complex as our enterprise software frequently contains undetected defects that may be identified at any point in the software’s life. There can be no assurance that, despite repeated testing, defects will not occur in existing or new software. Such defects could result in loss of or delay in receiving revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation or increased service and warranty costs. Any of the above consequences could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, our software development services typically involve working with sophisticated software, computing and networking systems. Our failure or inability to meet customer expectations or project milestones in a timely manner could also result in loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to reputation and increased costs. Because our customers rely on our products and services for critical trade transactions, any significant defects or errors in our products or services might discourage our customers or potential customers from utilizing our products and services or result in tort or warranty claims. We do not maintain any insurance against product liability or legal claims. Any imposition of liability on us may adversely affect our business and increase our costs, resulting in reduced revenues and profitability. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights and others may claim that we have infringed on their intellectual property rights, which could cause us to be less competitive, may expose us to litigation and may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology. In addition, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop comparable intellectual property. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriations of our technology. From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation or other measures to try to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. We may be unable to enforce our intellectual property rights even through litigation or other measures, particularly in China. See “— Risks related to doing business in China — The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to you and could adversely affect our ability to provide our products and services in China.” In particular, we are aware of an online video game company in China whose name is substantially similar to our name in Chinese. We cannot assure you that such company will not take actions against us for trademark infringement. We have registered our trademark in the United States and we are in the process of registering our other trademarks in China under the food and beverage categories. There can be no assurance that infringement or other claims will not be asserted or prosecuted against us in the future or that any past or future assertions or prosecutions will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel or require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, our revenues may decrease and our expenses to obtain or develop non-infringing technology or to license the infringed or similar technology may increase. In addition, our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely basis may cause our business, results of operations and financial condition to be negatively affected. See Item 4 of this annual report, “Information on the Company — Business overview —Intellectual property rights.” Any reduction of our preferential tax treatment as a PRC high and new technology enterprise could materially reduce our net income. We receive from the PRC government a 14.0% rebate for value added tax on sales of software and software-related services, or VAT rebate. We cannot assure you that we will continue to enjoy this preferential tax treatment in the future, either due to a change in the PRC government’s tax policies or because a subsidiary or variable interest entity, or VIE, fails to satisfy the financial and operational criteria necessary to maintain its eligibility for such preferential tax treatment. Any reduction in our preferential tax treatment could materially reduce our net income. 10 Table of Contents There are significant uncertainties under the New Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, regarding our PRC enterprise income tax liabilities, such as tax on dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries. The New EIT Law also contains uncertainties regarding possible PRC withholding tax on dividends we pay to our shareholders outside of China and gains realized from the transfer of our shares by our shareholders outside of China. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands, which indirectly holds, through New Take Limited., or New Take, and Shielder Limited, or Shielder, which are Hong Kong companies, our equity interest in our PRC subsidiaries. The New EIT Law and its implementation rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008, provide that China-sourced income of foreign enterprises, such as dividends paid by a PRC subsidiary to its overseas parent, is normally subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of 10.0%, unless there are applicable treaties that reduce such rate. Under a special arrangement between China and Hong Kong, such dividend withholding tax rate is reduced to 5.0% if a Hong Kong resident enterprise owns over 25.0% of the PRC company distributing the dividends. As New Take and Shielder are Hong Kong companies and own 90.0% of Beijing New Take Electronic Commerce Limited, or Beijing New Take, and Beijing Ninetowns Times Electronic Commerce Limited, or Ninetowns Times, respectively, dividends that Beijing New Take and Ninetowns Times pay New Take and Shielder, respectively, are subject to a withholding tax at the rate of 5.0%, provided that New Take and Shielder and our company are not considered to be PRC tax resident enterprises. Furthermore, according to the Circular regarding the Implementation of Dividend-related Provisions in the Tax Treaty issued by the State Administration of Taxation on February 22, 2009, if the main purpose of an offshore arrangement is to obtain a preferential tax treatment, the PRC tax authorities have the discretion to adjust the preferential tax rate enjoyed by the relevant offshore entity. As New Take and Shielder are intermediate holding companies and not engaged in any commercial activities in Hong Kong, the tax authorities may regard the main purpose of New Take and Shielder as obtaining a lower withholding tax rate of 5.0%. As a result, the tax authorities could levy a higher withholding tax rate to dividends received by New Take and Shielder from Beijing New Take and Ninetowns Times. Furthermore, the implementation rules of the New EIT Law provide that (i) if the enterprise that distributes dividends is domiciled in the PRC, or (ii) if gains are realized from transferring equity interests in enterprises domiciled in the PRC, then such dividends or capital gains are treated as China-sourced income. It is unclear how “domicile” will be interpreted. It may be interpreted as the jurisdiction where the enterprise is a tax resident. Therefore, if we and New Take and Shielder are considered as PRC tax resident enterprises for tax purposes, any dividend we pay to our shareholders outside of China or ADS holders as well as gains realized by such shareholders or ADS holders from the transfer of our shares or ADSs will be regarded as China-sourced income and as a result be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10.0%. The Chinese tax authorities have clarified that distributions made out of pre-January 1, 2008 retained earnings is not subject to the withholding tax. Tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 includes an estimated withholding tax related to dividends in excess of pre-January 1, 2008 retained earnings paid by our Chinese subsidiaries to our overseas holding companies. Additionally, under the New EIT Law, enterprises established under the laws of foreign countries or regions whose “de facto management bodies” are located within the PRC are considered resident enterprises and are generally subject to the enterprise income tax, or EIT, at the rate of 25.0% on its global income. However, the New Income Tax Law does not define the term “de facto management bodies.” Under the implementation rules to the Enterprise Income Tax Law, a “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and other assets of an enterprise. In addition, the tax circular mentioned above details that certain Chinese-invested enterprises will be classified as “resident enterprises” if the following are located or resident in China: senior management personnel and departments that are responsible for daily production, operation and management; financial and personnel decision making bodies; key properties, accounting books, company seal, and minutes of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings; and half or more of the senior management or directors having voting rights. Certain members of our board of directors and our management are currently located in the PRC and if they remain located in the PRC after the effective date of the New EIT Law, we may be considered to be a resident enterprise and therefore may be subject to the EIT at the rate of 25.0% on our global income in the PRC. 11 Table of Contents We face uncertainty from the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on Non-PRC Resident Enterprise’ Share Transfers (“SAT Circular No. 698”) issued by the PRC State Administration of Taxation, effective as of January 1, 2008. Pursuant to SAT Circular No. 698, except for the purchase and sale of equity through a public securities market, where a non-resident enterprise transfers the equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise indirectly by disposition of the equity interests in an overseas holding company, or an Indirect Transfer, and the overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that has an effective tax rate less than 12.5% or does not tax foreign income of its residents, the non-resident enterprise, being the transferor, must report this Indirect Transfer to the appropriate tax authority of the PRC resident enterprise. Using a “substance over form” approach, the PRC tax authority may disregard the existence of the overseas holding company if it lacks a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of reducing, avoiding or deferring PRC tax. As a result, gains derived from such as Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC tax at a rate of up to 10%. SAT Circular No. 698 also provides that, where a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise to its related parties at a price lower than the fair market value, the relevant tax authority has the power to make a reasonable adjustment to the taxable income of the transaction. There is uncertainty as to the application of SAT Circular No. 698. For example, while the term “Indirect Transfer” is not clearly defined, it is understood that the PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction to request information from a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. Moreover, the PRC tax authorities have not promulgated any formal provisions or formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax rates in foreign tax jurisdictions, and the process and format of the reporting of an Indirect Transfer to the appropriate tax authority of the relevant PRC resident enterprise remain unclear. In addition, there are no formal declarations with regard to how to determine whether a foreign investor has adopted an abusive arrangement in order to reduce, avoid or defer PRC tax. SAT Circular No. 698 may be determined by the tax authorities to be applicable to transactions in which non-resident investors were involved, if any of such transactions were determined by the tax authorities to lack reasonable commercial purpose. As a result, we may become at risk of being taxed under SAT Circular No. 698 and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with SAT Circular No. 698 or to establish that we should not be taxed under SAT Circular No. 698, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Changes in PRC policies on dividend distribution may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations and dividends payable by us to our foreign investors. Pursuant to the Arrangement between Mainland China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to Taxes on Income signed on August 21, 2006, or the Hong Kong Tax Treaty, a company incorporated in Hong Kong, such as our subsidiaries New Take and Shielder, are subject to withholding income tax at a rate of 5% on dividends it receives from its PRC subsidiaries if it holds a 25% or more interest in that particular PRC subsidiary at the time of the distribution, or 10% if it holds less than a 25% interest in that subsidiary. In addition, the PRC State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Administrative Measures for Non-resident Enterprises to Enjoy Treatments under Tax Treaties (for Trial Implementation) on October 27, 2009, or Circular 601, which provides that tax treaty benefits will be denied to “conduit” or shell companies without business substance, and a beneficial ownership analysis will be used based on a “substance-over-form” principle to determine whether or not to grant tax treaty benefits. It is unclear at this early stage whether Circular 601 applies to dividends from our PRC subsidiaries paid to us through our Hong Kong subsidiary. It is possible however, that under Circular 601, our subsidiaries New Take and Shielder would not be considered as the “beneficial owner” of any such dividends, and that such dividends would as a result be subject to income tax withholding at the rate of 10% rather than the favorable 5% rate applicable under the Hong Kong Tax Treaty. If our currently available tax benefits relating to the withholding income tax on the dividends received from New Take and Shielder become unavailable as a result of the changes in the tax arrangement between the PRC and Hong Kong as mentioned above or for any other reason, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. It is likely that we are considered a passive foreign investment company for 2013, which could lead to additional taxes for U.S. holders of ADSs. Special U.S. federal income tax rules apply to U.S. holders of shares of a non-U.S. corporation that is classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The determination of our PFIC status principally depends upon the composition of our assets, including goodwill, and the amount and nature of our income, from time to time. The amount of goodwill depends in part on the market value of our ADSs or ordinary shares, which may be especially volatile in a technology-related enterprise. We have limited control over these variables. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we would not be considered a PFIC for any taxable year. It is likely that we are classified as a PFIC for 2013. As a result, U.S. holders of shares may be subject to United States federal income tax consequences that are less favorable than those that would apply if we were not a PFIC. 12 Table of Contents For example, gain from the sale of our shares may be ineligible for preferential capital gains rates and may be subject to an interest charge. Please see Item 10 of this annual report, “Additional Information — Taxation — United States Federal Income Tax Consequences.” The success of our B2C e-commerce business depends on our ability to identify and respond to constantly changing consumer preferences. The e-commerce and retail industries are subject to changing consumer preferences. Consequently, we must stay abreast of emerging lifestyles and consumer trends, and anticipate trends that appeal to existing and potential customers. Shifts in consumer preferences or eating habits away from organic food products may materially affect our business if we do not adjust our product offerings promptly and appropriately. In addition, our continued success depends, in general, on the economic conditions, disposable income and consumer confidence in the areas in which we sell our products, all of which can affect discretionary consumer spending. Adverse changes in these factors would reduce our total net revenues from our B2C e-commerce business and limit our pricing, which will reduce our profitability. We may fail to obtain, or may experience material delays in obtaining or renewing, necessary qualification certificates and government approvals for our real estate development operations, which would adversely affect our business. The real estate industry in China is highly regulated. Real estate developers in China must abide by various laws and regulations, including implementation rules promulgated by local governments to enforce these laws and regulations. As a precondition to engaging in real estate development in China, a property developer must obtain a qualification certificate and renew it on an annual basis unless the rules and regulations allow for a longer renewal period. According to the current PRC regulations on qualification of property developers, a newly established property developer must first apply for a provisional qualification certificate with a one-year validity, which can be extended for a maximum of two years. If the newly established property developer fails to commence a property development project within the one-year period when the provisional qualification certificate is in effect, it will not be allowed to extend its provisional qualification certificate. More established property developers must also apply for renewal of their qualification certificates on an annual basis. It is mandatory under government regulations that developers fulfill all statutory requirements before obtaining or renewing their qualification certificates. We may not be able to obtain the qualification certificates in a timely manner, or at all, as and when they become due to expire. If we do not possess valid qualification certificates, the government may refuse to issue pre-sale and other permits necessary for our property development business. In addition, the government may impose a penalty on us and our project companies for failure to comply with the relevant licensing requirements. If we are unable to meet the relevant requirements, and therefore are unable to obtain or renew the qualification certificates or pass the annual verification, our future business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We develop our real estate projects through project companies. These project companies must also hold valid qualification certificates to be able to conduct their businesses. Beijing Ninetowns Software Co., Ltd., or Ninetowns Software, and Huainan Huacheng Estate Co., Ltd, or Huainan Huacheng, have obtained the relevant Qualification Certificate. We cannot assure you that our project companies will be able to obtain, extend or renew the qualification certificates. If our project companies do not possess valid qualification certificates, the PRC Government may refuse to issue pre-sale and other permits necessary for our property development business. In addition, the PRC Government may impose a penalty on us and our project companies for failure to comply with the licensing requirements. The occurrence of any of the above events may have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and operating results. Before commencing, and during the course of, the development of a project, we also need to apply for various licenses, permits, certificates and approvals, including land use rights certificates, construction site planning permits, construction work planning permits, construction permits, pre-sale permits and completion acceptance certificates. We need to satisfy various requirements to obtain these certificates and permits. We have obtained the land use rights certificate and construction site planning permit for Yizhuang. To date, we are still in the process of applying for other certificates and permits, and we cannot guarantee that we will not encounter serious delays or difficulties in this process. In the event that we fail to obtain the necessary certificates and permits for any of our projects, or a serious delay occurs, we may not be able to maintain our development schedule and our future business and cash flows may be adversely affected. We may also be forced to forfeit land to the government if we fail to comply with statutory development deadlines imposed under land grants or the terms of the land use rights grant contracts. Our joint ventures could result in unforeseen expenses or disruptive effects on our business. In 2011 and 2012, we formed several joint ventures with our partners and we may continue to pursue joint venture opportunities for our real estate business. Any joint venture that we pursue may be accompanied by a number of risks. We may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the joint ventures. We may not be able to control the quality of products produced by the joint venture. Depending on the terms of the joint venture agreement, we may need the consent of our joint venture partner(s) for the joint venture to take certain actions, such as the payment of distributions. In addition, our joint venture partners and the joint venture themselves may hold different views or have different interests from ours, and therefore may compete in the same market with us, in which case our interest and future development may be materially adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents We rely on third-party contractors. Substantially all of our real estate project construction and related work are outsourced to third-party contractors. We are exposed to risks that the performance of our contractors may not meet our standards or specifications. Negligence or poor work quality by contractors may result in defects in our buildings or residential units, which could in turn cause us to suffer financial losses, harm our reputation or expose us to third-party claims. We work with multiple contractors on different projects and we cannot guarantee that we can effectively monitor their work at all times. Although our construction and other contracts contain provisions designed to protect us, we may be unable to successfully enforce these rights and, even if we are able to successfully enforce these rights, the third-party contractor may not have sufficient financial resources to compensate us. Moreover, the contractors may undertake projects from other property developers, engage in risky undertakings or encounter financial or other difficulties, such as supply shortages, labor disputes or work accidents, which may cause delays in the completion of our property projects or increases our costs. We do not maintain business liability or disruption insurance and any business disruption or litigation we experience might result in our incurring substantial costs and diversion of resources. We do not maintain business liability insurance which we believe is in line with the market practice in China. While business disruption insurance is available, we have determined that the risks of disruption and the cost of insurance are such that we do not require it at this time. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might therefore result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to our industry The software industry is subject to rapid changes in technology and our failure to develop and introduce new enterprise software could reduce our market competitiveness and ability to generate revenues. The software industry is characterized by rapid technological changes and evolving customer, industry and government standards. Our future success depends, to a large extent, on our ability to keep pace with technological advances in a timely and cost-effective manner by improving our existing enterprise software or developing new enterprise software that addresses changing customer requirements. Our development of new enterprise software or the enhancement of our existing enterprise software entails substantial investments in research and development, which we expect to fund with our cash flow from operations and our available cash. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that our research and development efforts will result in the successful introduction of new enterprise software or the enhancement of our existing enterprise software, nor that any of such new or enhanced enterprise software will be accepted by the market. The success of our new enterprise software is dependent on several factors, including differentiation of our enterprise software from products of our competitors and market acceptance. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing new enterprise software that responds to competitive and technological developments and changing customer needs. Our failure to develop and introduce new enterprise software successfully on a timely basis or to achieve market acceptance could reduce our market competitiveness and ability to generate net revenues. In addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunication technologies or standards or other technological changes could require substantial expenditures by us to modify or adapt our products and services. To the extent that a method other than submission by Internet is adopted to enable trusted and secure communications with the PRC Inspections Administration and other trade-related PRC government agencies, sales of our existing and planned enterprise software products will be adversely affected and our enterprise software could be rendered unmarketable or obsolete. Such consequences would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Government policies, standards, rules and regulations may force us to implement changes to our existing enterprise software or change how we provide products and services to our customers, which could increase our expenses and decrease our profitability. The software industry in China and the regulatory environment has been and continues to be subject to uncertainty. Although the PRC government adopted policies to encourage the development of the PRC electronic government, or e-government, industry through the “Three Digitizations Project,” there can be no assurance that policies and the government’s standards, rules and regulations relating to the e-government software industry, such as the Regulations for the Protection of Computer Software, will not be implemented, interpreted or revised in a manner that may force us to implement changes to our existing enterprise software or change how we provide products and services to our customers, which could increase our expenses and decrease our profitability. See Item 4 of this annual report, “Information on the Company — Business overview — Regulation” for a discussion of the laws and regulations that apply to our company. We cannot accurately predict the circumstances that would cause the PRC government to implement, interpret or revise its policies in such a manner. Nevertheless, the PRC government could adopt measures to more closely regulate the use of the Internet or the software industry in China in order to enhance the government’s control over the Internet or over the content of software being distributed in China. 14 Table of Contents For example, we may be subject to potential liability for selling software that is subsequently deemed to be illegal by the relevant PRC regulatory authorities for having non-approved technology. These potential liabilities may include fines, product confiscation and criminal sanctions. We cannot assure you that our business, financial condition and results of operations will not be negatively affected by the application of these regulations. Furthermore, China and the United States may afford different patent protection to software programs. For example, there are jurisdictional variations in the enforcement of patent rights in China because most patent infringement disputes are resolved by courts at the municipal or provincial level or by local administrative authorities for patent affairs, which may be subject to varying local economic and political influences in rendering their decisions. By contrast, all patent disputes in the United States are reviewable by a single federal circuit court, which generally provides greater uniformity to the adjudication of patent disputes. We cannot predict whether the PRC authorities would centralize the enforcement or adjudication of patent rights in the future or how such centralized enforcement or adjudication would affect our rights. If the PRC authorities further de-centralize the regulation of the software industry, or centralize its enforcement or adjudication policy in a way that is detrimental to our company, we may be forced to implement changes to our existing enterprise software or change how we provide products and services to our customers, which could increase our expenses and decrease our profitability. The PRC real estate market is volatile as it continues to evolve. We operate subject to the risks associated with the PRC real estate industry. We cannot guarantee that our real estate development business will generate significant total net revenues or be profitable. The real estate market in the PRC is subject to social, political, economic, legal and other factors as it continues to evolve. The lack of a mature and active secondary market for private properties and the limited amount of mortgage loans available to individuals are examples of factors that inhibit demand for residential properties. We believe that the real estate development business depends on the growth of the urban middle and upper middle classes in the PRC. A significant downturn in the PRC economy could adversely affect such demand, as well as the demand for the retail, office and residential properties we plan to develop. The PRC property market is volatile and may experience undersupply or oversupply and property price fluctuations. The central and local governments frequently adjust monetary and other economic policies to prevent and curtail the overheating of the economy. Such policies may lead to changes in market conditions, including price instability and imbalance of supply and demand in respect of office, residential, retail, entertainment and cultural properties. The process of acquiring development and land use rights and developing land involves significant risks as we may be required to commit material financial and managerial resources in acquiring such rights and in constructing the property development infrastructure, which generally takes several years, before the property development project generates any revenue. We may need to delay or change the structure of property developments after we have begun to explore them and may lose deposits paid to participate in the land tender process or fail to recover expenses and construction costs already incurred. We may even be required to pay penalties and/or compensation to the government authorities and purchasers as a result. Furthermore, any of our anticipated development projects may become unprofitable if we incur additional construction and other development costs due to increases in interest rates or material, labor or other costs over and above the market price at which we are able to sell our property projects and pass on such cost increases to our customers. We may fail to complete the construction of a property on schedule or at all, due to a variety of factors including shortages of materials, equipment, technical skills and labor, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, labor disputes, disputes with contractors, accidents, changes in the PRC government’s policies, changes in market conditions and delays in obtaining the requisite licenses, permits and approvals from the relevant authorities, which may adversely affect our ability to generate total net revenues or the profitability of our real estate development business. There is fierce competition among real estate developers for land and property. If we fail to compete effectively against our competitors, our future business and financial position may be adversely affected. A large number of property developers including overseas and leading Hong Kong property developers have been undertaking property development and investment projects in the PRC for many years. As we grow our business lines to include real estate development business, we may compete with large real estate developers for the acquisition of land and property investment opportunities. Competition among property developers may result in increased costs for acquiring land for development, increased costs for raw materials, shortages of skilled contractors, oversupply of properties, decrease in property prices in certain parts of the PRC, a slowdown in the rate at which new property developments will be approved and/or reviewed by the relevant government authorities and increases in administrative costs for hiring or retaining qualified personnel, any of which may adversely affect our business and financial position. Our competitors will likely have greater financial resources than are available to us, as well as greater economies of scale and broader brand recognition and may therefore be in a better position than us in acquiring land. If we fail to compete as effectively as our competitors, our future business and financial position may be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Risks related to doing business in China Adverse economic, political, social or legal developments or a decrease in domestic demand in China could result in a reduction in international trade activities involving China, which could in turn reduce the demand for our products and services. All of our total net revenues have been, and are for the foreseeable future expected to be, derived from the PRC market and substantially all of our operating assets are located in China. Accordingly, our operating results and financial condition are largely subject to economic, political, social and legal developments in China as well as changes in the demand for our enterprise software and software development services by international trade enterprises and PRC government agencies in China. There can be no assurance that such developments will not adversely affect our performance and profitability. We cannot predict the future direction of the economic reform measures that have been adopted by the PRC government or the effects these measures may have on our business, results of operations or financial position. Many laws and regulations governing economic matters implemented by the PRC government are at an early stage of development and their interpretation and enforcement involve more uncertainties than in most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD. In addition, the PRC economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the OECD. These differences include: • economic structure; • level of government involvement in the economy; • level of development; • level of capital reinvestment; • control of foreign exchange; • methods of allocating resources; and • balance of payments position. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the PRC economy were similar to those of other OECD member countries. In addition, there can be no assurance that any growth in the PRC economy will be steady or that any slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business; that deflation will not reoccur in the PRC economy in the foreseeable future; or that the level of international trade to and from China will not cease to grow at historical rates or even decrease, which could negatively impact demand for our enterprise software. Finally, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively affected by adverse changes in government monetary policies, import/export policies and regulations, tax regulations or policies and regulations affecting the software industry. In August 2013, 1,507 categories of items that were originally contained in the Catalogue of Import and Export Commodities Subject to Inspection and Quarantine by the Entry-Exit Inspection and Quarantine Authorities, or the Catalogue, were no longer subject to quality inspection prior to export. In addition, in recent years, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as raising bank reserves against deposit rates, to place additional limitations on the ability of commercial banks to make loans, in order to slow growth in certain segments of the PRC economy it believed to be overheating. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could result in a reduction in international trade activities involving China, which could in turn reduce the demand for our products and services. The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to you and could adversely affect our ability to provide our products and services in China. We conduct our business entirely through our operating subsidiaries and a VIE incorporated in China. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In the late 1970s, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors and entities, including you and us, such as the right of foreign-invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as customs-related business licenses and permits, software licenses and licenses and approvals necessary to provide services to government enterprises. As the PRC legal system matures, changes in its legislation or interpretation of its legislation may adversely affect our ability to provide our products and services in China. If the PRC government determines that the VIE structure for operating our business does not comply with PRC government restrictions on foreign investment in the telecommunications industry, we could face severe penalties. Various regulations in China currently restrict or prevent foreign-invested entities from engaging in the telecommunications services, including Internet-related businesses such as B2B and B2C e-commerce. Because of these restrictions, our B2C operations in the PRC have been conducted through our VIE, Beijing Ronghe Tongshang Network Technology Limited, or Ronghe Tongshang, which is a PRC company that is effectively controlled by our subsidiary, Beijing Ninetowns Investment Co., Ltd., formerly known as Beijing Ninetowns Suitable Estate Co., Ltd., or Beijing Ninetowns Investment, through a series of contractual arrangements. 16 Table of Contents A circular issued by Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (formerly the Ministry of Information Industry), or MIIT, in July 2006, or the MIIT circular, reiterated the regulations on foreign investment in the telecommunications businesses. Under this circular, a domestic company that holds a license for the provision of Internet information service, or an ICP license, or a license to conduct any value-added telecommunications business in China, is prohibited from leasing, transferring or selling the license to foreign investors in any form, and from providing any assistance, including providing resources, sites or facilities, to foreign investors to conduct value-added telecommunications businesses in China. Furthermore, the relevant trademarks and domain names that are used in the value-added telecommunications business must be owned by the local ICP license holder or its shareholders. The circular further requires each ICP license holder to have the necessary facilities for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. In addition, all value-added telecommunications service providers are required to maintain network and information security in accordance with the standards set forth under relevant PRC regulations. Due to a lack of interpretative materials from the regulators, it is uncertain whether MIIT would consider our corporate structures and contractual arrangements as a kind of foreign investment in telecommunications services. Therefore, it is unclear what impact this circular will have on us or the other Chinese Internet companies that have adopted the same or similar corporate structures and contractual arrangements as ours. In the opinion of our PRC counsel, Commerce & Finance Law Offices, (i) the ownership structure and the business and operation model of each of Beijing Ninetowns Investment Co., Ltd. or Ninetowns Investment, and our VIE are in compliance with applicable PRC laws and regulations in all material aspects, and (ii) each contract that Beijing Ninetowns Investment entered into with our VIE and its shareholders is valid and binding, and will not result in any violation of PRC laws or regulations currently in effect. However, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including the MIIT circular discussed above. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will ultimately take a view that is consistent with the opinion of our PRC counsel. If we are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, including the MIIT circular, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including levying fines, confiscating our income, revoking Ronghe Tongshang’s business or operating licenses, requiring us to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations, and requiring us to discontinue all or any portion of our related operations. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations. Beijing Ninetowns Investment’s contractual arrangements with Ronghe Tongshang and its shareholders may not be as effective in providing control over them and such shareholders may have potential conflicts of interest with us. We do not have ownership interest in our VIE and we conduct substantially all of our B2C e-commerce operations through contractual arrangements that Beijing Ninetowns Investment entered into with Ronghe Tongshang and its shareholders. Such contractual arrangements are designed to provide us with effective control over our VIE. We depend on our VIE to hold and maintain certain licenses necessary for our B2C e-commerce businesses. Our VIE also owns all of the necessary intellectual properties, facilities, employees and other assets relating to the operation of our B2C e-commerce business. Contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over our VIE as direct ownership. If we had direct ownership of our VIE, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the board of directors of our VIE, which in turn could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. Due to our VIE structure, we have to rely on contractual rights to effect control and management of our VIE, which exposes us to the risk of potential breach of contract by the shareholders of our VIE. In addition, as our VIE is jointly owned by its shareholders, it may be difficult for us to change our corporate structure if such shareholders refuse to cooperate with us. The shareholders of our VIE may breach, or cause our VIE to breach, the contracts for a number of reasons. For example, their interests as shareholders of our VIE and the interests of our company may conflict and we may fail to resolve such conflicts; the shareholders may believe that breaching the contracts will lead to greater economic benefit for them; or the shareholders may otherwise act in bad faith. If any of the foregoing were to happen, we may have to rely on legal or arbitral proceedings to enforce our contractual rights, including specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages. Such arbitral and legal proceedings may cost us substantial financial and other resources, and result in disruption of our business, and we cannot assure you that the outcome will be in our favor. In addition, as all of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC, they would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could further limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. Furthermore, these contracts may not be enforceable in China if PRC government authorities or courts take a view that such contracts contravene PRC laws and regulations or are otherwise not enforceable for public policy reasons. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over our VIE, and our ability to conduct our business may be materially and adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents The laws and regulations governing the telecommunications industry in China are evolving and subject to future changes. We may fail to obtain or maintain all applicable permits and approvals. The telecommunications industry in China is highly regulated by the PRC government. Various regulatory authorities of the PRC central government, such as the State Council, the MIIT, the General Administration of Press and Publication, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Public Security, are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of the telecommunications industry. We are required to obtain applicable permits, approvals from or registration with different regulatory authorities in order to operate our websites. If we fail to maintain any of our permits, approvals or registrations or to apply for permits, approvals or registrations on a timely basis, we may be subject to various penalties, including fines and the discontinuation or restriction of our operations. As the telecommunications industry is at an early stage of development in China, new laws and regulations may be adopted from time to time to require additional licenses and permits other than those we currently have, and address new issues that arise. In addition, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the interpretation and implementation of current and any future PRC laws and regulations applicable to the telecommunications industry. We cannot assure you that we could obtain timely, or at all, required licenses or any other new license required in the future. We cannot assure you that we will not be found in violation of any current PRC laws or regulations should their interpretations change, or that we will not be found in violation of any future PRC laws or regulations. The recurrence of SARS, H5N1 influenza, or avian influenza, or H1N1 influenza, or swine flu, may result in a reduction in business activity in and related to Asia, which could have an adverse effect on our total net revenues, growth and profits. In early 2003, several economies in Asia, including Hong Kong and China, were affected by the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS. Several confirmed or suspected SARS cases were reported in early 2004 in Beijing and Anhui Province in China. In addition, lethal outbreaks of avian influenza infection among poultry were reported by several countries in Asia, including China in 2005. In March 2007, February 2008, and early 2009, several fatal cases of avian influenza were reported in various provinces across China. In April 2009, lethal outbreaks of swine flu were reported by several economies around the world, including Hong Kong and various provinces across China. In early June 2009, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak to be a pandemic, while noting that most of the illnesses were of moderate severity. The PRC Ministry of Health has reported several hundred deaths caused by the swine flu. There have been recent reports of outbreaks of an avian flu caused by the H7N9 virus, including confirmed human cases, in China. If there is a recurrence of an outbreak of SARS, avian influenza or swine flu, it may adversely affect our total net revenues, growth and profits. For instance, a recurrence of SARS, avian influenza, swine flu or any other epidemic may reduce the level of economic activity in affected areas and negatively impact international trade activities involving China, which could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, health or other government regulations may require temporary closure of our offices, government offices or the offices of our customers, which will severely disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our total net revenues, growth and profits. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues to, among other things, pay dividends and make distributions. Because most of our future revenues are expected to be in the form of Renminbi, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenues generated in Renminbi to fund future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. There are significant restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi, including the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell and/or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents at banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the PRC, or SAFE, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. 18 Table of Contents The value of our ordinary shares and our ADSs, and the value of your investment in our company, may decrease due to changes in the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. The value of our ordinary shares and our ADSs will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and if the Renminbi appreciates against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial condition and the price of our ordinary shares and our ADSs may be adversely affected. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries and VIE in China would be reduced. The value of your investment in our ADSs may fluctuate with the foreign exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Renminbi, because the value of our business is largely denominated in Renminbi, while our ADSs are traded in U.S. dollars. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase our administrative burden and restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity. If our shareholders who are PRC residents fail to make any required applications and filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC law. In October 2005, SAFE issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund — Raising and Return Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 75, which took effect on November 1, 2005. Notice 75 supersedes prior SAFE regulations promulgated in January and April of 2005. Notice 75 requires PRC residents to register with the relevant local SAFE branch in connection with their establishment or control of an offshore entity established for the purpose of overseas equity financing involving onshore assets or equity interests held by them. The term “PRC residents” as used in Notice 75 includes PRC citizens as wells as other persons who habitually reside in the PRC for economic benefit. Such PRC residents are required to complete amended registrations with the relevant SAFE branch upon (i) injection of equity interests or assets of an onshore enterprise into the offshore entity, (ii) subsequent overseas equity financing by such offshore entity, or (iii) any material change in the shareholding or capital of the offshore entity, such as changes in share capital, share transfers and long term equity or debt investments, and providing security. PRC residents who have already incorporated or gained control of offshore entities that made onshore investments in the PRC before Notice 75 was promulgated was required to register with the relevant local SAFE branch on or before March 31, 2006. In addition, such PRC residents are required to repatriate into China all of their dividend profits or capital gains from their shareholdings in the offshore entity within 180 days of their receipt of such profits or gains. The registration and amendment procedures set forth by Notice 75 are prerequisites for other approval and registration procedures necessary for capital inflow from the offshore entity, such as inbound investment or shareholders loans, or capital outflow to the offshore entity, such as the payment of profits or dividends, liquidating distributions, equity sale proceeds or the return of funds upon a capital reduction. Because of uncertainty over how Notice 75 will be interpreted and implemented, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ or VIE’s ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as remitting dividends and foreign- currency denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Notice 75 requirements by our PRC resident shareholders. Despite our efforts to fully comply with the SAFE regulations, we cannot assure you that we will obtain, or receive waivers from, any necessary approvals or not be found in violation of the SAFE regulations or any other related foreign exchange regulations. In particular, we cannot assure you that we will be able to cause all our present or prospective PRC resident shareholders to comply with all SAFE regulations. Any failure by our PRC resident shareholders to comply with Notice 75 or our inability to secure required approvals or registrations may subject us to fines or legal sanctions, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities or affect our ownership structure, any of which could materially affect our business and prospects. All participants in our existing equity compensation plans who are PRC citizens may be required to register with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional equity compensation plans for our directors, employees and other parties under PRC law. In December 2006, the PBOC promulgated the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, which set forth the requirements for foreign exchange transactions by PRC individuals under either current accounts or capital accounts. In January 2007, SAFE issued the Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures for Individual 19 Table of Contents Foreign Exchange, which, among other things, specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions such as a PRC citizen’s participation in the employee stock ownership plans or stock option plans of an overseas publicly listed company. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Processing Guidance on Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Ownership Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas-Listed Companies Hui Zong Fa [2007] No. 78, Circular 78. On 15 February 2012, SAFE issued a new Circular on Domestic Individuals’ Participation in Share-based Incentive Plans of overseas Listed Companies (Hui Fa [2012] No. 7), or Circular 7, to replace Circular 78. Under Circular 7, PRC citizens who participate in share-based incentive plans of an overseas publicly listed company are required, through a qualified PRC domestic agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly listed company, to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 7 will be burdensome and time consuming. If it is determined that our equity compensation plans are subject to Circular 7, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and the participants of our equity compensation plans who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our personnel, which is currently a significant component of the compensation of many of our PRC employees. In that case, our business operations may be materially adversely affected. Risks related to our ADSs and ordinary shares Your ability to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not offer you those rights unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. The future sales by our directors, officers and our current shareholders of a substantial number of our ordinary shares could result in the supply of our ADSs in the public market exceeding demand, which in turn could lower the market price of our ADSs. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares or ADSs, including those issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, in the public market, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. If any existing shareholder or shareholders sell a substantial amount of ordinary shares, the supply of our ADSs in the public market may exceed demand, which in turn could lower the market price for our ADSs and thus the value of your investment could be adversely affected. The market price for our ADSs may be volatile, and the value of your investment in our ADSs may decrease. The market price for our ADSs may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to the factors set forth elsewhere in this section, as well as: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or semi-annual operating results; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in the market price of Internet and PRC-related companies; • announcements of new products or services by us or our competitors; • conditions in the international trade industry; and • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. In particular, the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other PRC technology companies that have listed their securities in the United States may affect the trading and price volatility of our ADSs. In recent years, a number of PRC companies have listed their securities, or are preparing to list their securities, in the United States. Some of these securities have experienced significant volatility, including significant price declines in connection with or in the periods following their initial public offerings. The trading performances of these companies’ securities may affect the investor sentiment towards PRC companies listed in the United States in general, which may impact the trading performance of our ADSs. These broad market and industry factors may significantly affect the market price and volatility of our ADSs. You may not be able to exercise your right to vote. The SEC generally exempts foreign private issuers such as our company from its proxy solicitation requirements. As a holder of ADSs, you may instruct the depositary of our ADSs to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs, but only if we ask the depositary to ask for your instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw the ordinary shares. However, you may not know about the meeting enough in advance to withdraw the shares. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will 20 Table of Contents receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ordinary shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and there may be nothing you can do if the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you request. We and the depositary may amend the deposit agreement at any time without your consent, and by doing so may change your rights thereunder in a manner with which you disagree. We may agree with the depositary to amend the deposit agreement without your consent for any reason. If you continue to hold your ADRs after being notified of such amendment, you will be deemed to have agreed to such amendment. In the event you disagree with any such amendment, your only recourse may be to sell your ADSs. You may not receive distributions on ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you and these restrictions may reduce the value of your ADSs. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. However, the depositary is not required to do so if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. We have no obligation to register ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities under U.S. securities laws. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may reduce the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems it expedient to do so in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. We have not adopted any policy regarding the closing of our books relating to our ADSs, nor is there any provision under Cayman Islands law or New York law, or the deposit agreement, that would prevent the transferability of ADSs. Under the deposit agreement, however, the depository may close its books for our ADR facility from time to time at its discretion, which may prevent you from transferring your ADSs when you wish to do so. If our subsidiaries are restricted from paying dividends and other distributions to us, our primary source of funds would decrease. We are a holding company, and we rely on dividends from our Chinese subsidiaries and servicing, licensing and other fees paid to our Chinese subsidiaries by our Chinese affiliated entities and their subsidiaries, including servicing any debt we may incur. If our subsidiaries incur debts on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debts may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us, which in turn would limit our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. PRC regulations permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are also required to set aside a portion of their after-tax profits according to PRC accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds that are not distributable as cash dividends. Other than restrictions imposed by PRC law as set forth under Item 8 of this annual report, “Financial Information — Consolidated statements and other financial information — Dividend policy,” and except as set forth below, our subsidiaries in China are not currently subject to any restriction that would prevent them from paying any dividend or any other form of distribution to us, but there can be no assurance that PRC legal restrictions will not prevent the payment of dividends or distributions in the future. Relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their retained earnings, if any, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, the statutory general reserve fund, which requires annual appropriations of 10% of net after-tax income should be set aside prior to payment of any dividends until the cumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its registered capital. As a result of these and other restrictions under PRC laws and regulations, our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to us either in the form of dividends, loans or advances. The restricted portion amounted to approximately 56.8% of our total consolidated net assets as of December 31, 2013. Even though we currently do not require any such dividends, loans or advances from our PRC subsidiaries, we may in the future require additional cash resources from our PRC subsidiaries due to changes in business conditions, to fund future acquisitions or developments, or merely to declare and pay dividends or distributions to our shareholders, although we currently have no intention to do so. 21 Table of Contents Pursuant to the New EIT Law, which went into effect on January 1, 2008, dividends payable by a foreign invested enterprises, or FIEs, to its foreign investors are subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless the foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. The Cayman Islands, where we are incorporated, does not have a tax treaty with China. Although the New EIT Law contemplates the possibility of exemptions from withholding taxes for China-sourced income of FIEs, the Chinese tax authorities have not promulgated any related implementation rules and it remains unclear whether we would be able to obtain exemptions from Chinese withholding taxes for dividends distributed to us by our Chinese subsidiaries. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and our ability to protect our rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law, Cap. 22 (Law 3 of 1961, as consolidated and revised) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors and actions by minority shareholders are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. Cayman Islands law in this area may not be as established and may differ from provisions under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in the United States. As a result, our public shareholders may face different considerations in protecting their interests in actions against our management, directors or our controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. The rights of shareholders and the responsibilities of management, members of the board of directors and controlling shareholders under Cayman Islands law, such as in the areas of fiduciary duties, are different from those applicable to a company incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. For example, the Cayman Islands courts are unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, to impose liabilities against us based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. As a result, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in connection with actions taken by our management, members of our board of directors or our controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. Our ability to protect our rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, our ability to protect our interests if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court may be limited. Your ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, will be limited because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, a substantial portion of our operations are in China and the majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and we conduct substantially all of our operations through our operating subsidiaries and VIE in China. Most of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States and substantially all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the U.S. securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. We may be at risk of securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against companies following declines in the market price of their securities. If we are faced with such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition and the trading price of our ADSs. We are required to implement additional controls and procedures in finance and accounting systems to satisfy U.S. reporting requirements. Failure to complete the required assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of confidence in the reliability of such controls, which may adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, including expanded disclosures and accelerated reporting requirements. Compliance with 22 Table of Contents Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other requirements may increase our costs and require additional management resources. We have been continuously upgrading and implementing additional controls and procedures in our finance and accounting systems and will need to continue to do so as we grow our business and organization and to satisfy new reporting requirements. If we are unable to complete the required assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our internal controls over financial reporting, which could adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. Our management has determined that our internal control over financial reporting as at December 31, 2013 was effective. However, it is possible that we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify other significant deficiencies or material weakness in future periods. Such results could cause our investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our internal controls over financial reporting, which could adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will continue to incur increased costs and devote significant management resources to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our ordinary shares or ADSs may be deemed as penny stock, which imposes significant restrictions on broker-dealers recommending our securities for purchase. The SEC’s regulations define “penny stock” to include securities that have a market price of less than US$5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. These regulations include the following requirements: broker-dealers must deliver, prior to the transaction, a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market; broker-dealers must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer and its registered representative; broker-dealers must disclose current quotations for the securities; if a broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealers presumed control over the market; and a broker-dealer must furnish its customers with monthly statements disclosing recent price information for all penny stocks held in the customer’s account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Additional sales practice requirements are imposed on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and must have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. If our ordinary shares or ADSs become subject to these penny stock rules, these disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for our securities, if such trading market should ever develop. Accordingly, this may result in a lack of liquidity in our ordinary shares or ADSs, and investors may be unable to sell our securities at prices considered reasonable by them. 