ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other risks not currently known to us or by risks that we currently deem immaterial. You should carefully consider these risks before making an investment decision. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing the risks described below, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Products, Programs and Operations We are focusing a significant portion of our activities and resources on OMS302 and our success may largely depend on our ability to obtain regulatory approval and to successfully commercialize this product. We are a biopharmaceutical company with no products approved for commercial sale and we have not generated any revenue from product sales. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs relating to the development and commercialization of our co-lead products – OMS302 for use during ILR procedures and OMS103HP for use during arthroscopic partial meniscectomy surgery. We intend to focus a significant portion of our activities and resources on seeking regulatory approval for, and subsequently commercializing, OMS302, and we believe a substantial portion of the value of our company relates to our ability to obtain marketing approval for, and to successfully commercialize, this product. We are now preparing to submit an NDA and an MAA for OMS302. Before either the FDA or EMA will begin its substantive review of the applicable marketing application, it will conduct a preliminary review to determine whether our submission includes all of the information that such agency believes necessary to evaluate OMS302 for possible marketing approval. The regulatory process is subject to substantial agency discretion and risks, including those described later in these risk factors. If one or both of these agencies refuses to accept our application(s), we may be required to revise our application(s) to include additional information about OMS302, which may require us to conduct additional clinical trials or preclinical studies that may significantly delay our ability to market and generate revenue from the sale of OMS302. Even if our NDA and MAA are accepted for review, either agency may decide not to approve our application, requiring us to obtain additional data regarding OMS302 and to resubmit our marketing application(s), further delaying our ability to market and generate revenue from the sale of OMS302. Even if we receive regulatory approval for OMS302, our ability to successfully commercialize this product will be subject to numerous uncertainties and risks, including those described later in these risk factors. If there are any negative decisions or delays in the regulatory process or if the anticipated or actual timing and plan for commercializing OMS302, or, ultimately, the market acceptance of OMS302 do not meet our, your, analysts’ or others’ expectations, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. Our success may also largely depend on the success of OMS103HP, and we cannot be certain that it will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. We are conducting a Phase 3 clinical program evaluating OMS103HP in patients undergoing arthroscopic partial meniscectomy surgery and plan to begin enrolling patients in a second Phase 3 clinical trial in 2013. While OMS103HP demonstrated a drug effect in the first Phase 3 clinical trial by reducing early postoperative pain, we can provide no assurance that in subsequent trials OMS103HP will meet the primary endpoint of early postoperative pain reduction following arthroscopic partial meniscectomy or that more than two additional trials, which we currently expect to conduct, will be required by regulatory authorities. Also, we can provide no assurances that we will have sufficient resources to conduct any subsequent clinical trials that we or regulatory authorities may deem necessary. If the data from any subsequent trials are negative or if we are required to conduct more than two additional clinical trials, we may be unable to seek, or be significantly delayed in seeking, marketing approval of OMS103HP, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive government regulation, including the requirement of approval before our products may be marketed. Both before and after approval of our products, we, our products, and our suppliers and contract manufacturers are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries, covering, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, and import and export. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in, among other things, one or more of the following actions: warning letters; unanticipated expenditures; delays in approval or refusal to approve a product; product recall or seizure; interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials; operating restrictions; injunctions; criminal prosecution and civil or criminal penalties including fines and other monetary penalties. We, the FDA or an independent Institutional Review Board or Ethics Committee may suspend or terminate human clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk or because of the way in which the investigators on which we rely carry out the trials. Our products cannot be marketed in the United States without FDA approval, and can only be marketed for the indications for which they may be approved. The FDA has not approved any of our products for sale in the United States. All of our products are in development, and will have to be approved by the FDA before they can be marketed in the United States. Obtaining FDA approval requires substantial time, effort, and financial resources, and may be subject to both expected and unforeseen delays, and there can be no assurance that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. The FDA may decide that our data are insufficient for approval of our products and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. As we develop our products, we periodically discuss with the FDA clinical, regulatory and manufacturing matters, and our views may, at times, differ from those of the FDA. For example, the FDA regulates our products that consist of two or more active ingredients as combination drugs under its Combination Drug Policy. The Combination Drug Policy requires that we demonstrate that each active ingredient in a drug product contributes to the product’s effectiveness. The FDA has questioned the means by which we intend to demonstrate such contribution and whether available data and information demonstrate contribution for each active ingredient in OMS103HP. If we are unable to resolve these questions, we may be required to provide additional information, which may include the results of additional preclinical studies or clinical trials. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our products beyond those that we currently contemplate for regulatory approval, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing, or if the results of these and other trials or tests fail to demonstrate efficacy or raise safety concerns, we may be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our products, or may never be able to obtain marketing approval. Even if regulatory approval of a product is obtained, such approval may be subject to significant limitations on the indicated uses for which that product may be marketed, conditions of use, and/or significant post approval obligations, including additional clinical trials. These regulatory requirements may, among other things, limit the size of the market for the product. Even after approval, discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer, or facility, such as previously undiscovered side effects, may result in restrictions on any product, manufacturer, or facility, including, among other things, a possible withdrawal of approval of the product. Our existing and future products, including our co-lead products OMS302 and OMS103HP, may never achieve market acceptance even if we obtain regulatory approvals. Even if we receive regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of one or more of our existing or future products, including OMS302 and OMS103HP, the commercial success of these products will depend on, among other things, their acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and other members of the medical 24 Table of Contents community. If our products fail to gain market acceptance, we may be unable to earn sufficient revenue to continue our business. Market acceptance of, and demand for, any product that we may develop and commercialize will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • availability, relative cost and relative efficacy of alternative and competing treatments; • the effectiveness of our marketing and distribution strategy to, among others, hospitals, surgery centers, physicians and/or pharmacists; • prevalence of the condition for which the product is approved or frequency of the related surgical procedure; • acceptance by physicians of each product as a safe and effective treatment; • perceived advantages over alternative treatments; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the availability of adequate reimbursement by third parties; • the frequency and severity of adverse side effects; and • publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments. Further, the number of operations in which our PharmacoSurgery products, if approved, would be used may be significantly less than the total number of such operations performed. If our products do not become widely accepted by physicians, patients, third-party payors and other members of the medical community, it is unlikely that we will ever become profitable, and if we are unable to increase market penetration of our products, our growth prospects would be significantly harmed. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our products, we may be unable to generate product revenue. Omeros has never sold, marketed or distributed any biopharmaceutical product. Developing an internal sales force is expensive and time-consuming and commonly is commenced 18 months in advance of product launch. Any delay in developing an internal sales force could impact the timing of any product launch. If we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we market and sell any approved products that we develop ourselves. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize any approved products without collaboration partners include: • our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; • the inability of sales personnel to sell our product(s) to adequate numbers of hospitals, surgery centers, physicians and/or pharmacists to purchase, use or prescribe any approved products; • the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and • unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization. If we are unsuccessful in building a sales and marketing infrastructure or unable to partner with one or more third parties to perform sales and marketing services for our products, we will have difficulty commercializing our products, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents We have a history of operating losses, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have not been profitable and have generated substantial operating losses since we were incorporated in June 1994. We had net losses of approximately $38.4 million, $28.5 million and $29.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $214.6 million. We do not anticipate generating revenue from the sale of our products until 2014 at the earliest and expect to incur additional losses for at least the next several years and cannot be certain that we will ever achieve profitability. As a result, our business is subject to all of the risks inherent in the development of a new business enterprise, such as the risks that we may be unable to obtain additional capital needed to support the preclinical and clinical expenses of development and commercialization of our products, to develop a market for our products, to successfully transition from a company with a research and development focus to a company capable of commercializing products and to attract and retain qualified management as well as technical and scientific staff. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed or on acceptable terms, we may be unable to complete the development and commercialization of OMS302, OMS103HP or our other products, or continue our other preclinical development programs. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to: • submit the NDA and MAA for OMS302 to the FDA and EMA, respectively, and prepare for the product’s potential commercialization; • complete the Phase 3 clinical program of OMS103HP for use in arthroscopic partial meniscectomy surgery; • continue the clinical development of OMS824; • continue our development efforts in our GPCR program to advance this program for potential partnering or for internal development of products targeting GPCRs; • scale-up and produce clinical and commercial supplies of products, and conduct clinical studies for our products, including for our PDE7, MASP-2 and Plasmin programs; • continue research and development in all of our programs; • make principal and interest payments when due under our debt facility with Oxford Finance, LLC, or Oxford; • initiate and conduct clinical trials for other products; • make milestone payments to our collaborators; and • launch and commercialize any products for which we receive regulatory approval. If we do not raise additional capital, we may be unable to commercialize OMS302, if it is approved, or complete all of the clinical trials in our Phase 3 clinical program for OMS103HP, which would prevent us from generating sales revenue for one or both of those products. Also, our clinical trials may be delayed or we may need to conduct additional trials for many of the reasons discussed in these “Risk Factors,” which would increase our development expenses and may require us to raise additional capital to complete their clinical development and commercialization and to decrease spending on our other development programs. Furthermore, we may need to raise additional capital to continue the clinical development of OMS824 and to advance one or more of our preclinical programs into clinical development. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital to commercialize OMS302 or complete the clinical development of OMS103HP or advance the development of one or more of our other programs, our business and prospects could be harmed and our stock price could decline significantly. 26 Table of Contents If our clinical trials are delayed, we may be unable to develop our products on a timely basis, which will increase our development costs and delay the potential commercialization of our products and the subsequent receipt of revenue from sales, if any. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause regulatory agencies, Institutional Review Boards or Ethics Committees, or us to delay our clinical trials or suspend or delay the analysis of the data from those trials. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: • discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • delays or the inability to obtain required approvals from Institutional Review Boards, Ethics Committees or other responsible entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • delays in enrolling patients into clinical trials; • lower than anticipated retention rates of patients in clinical trials; • the need to repeat or conduct additional clinical trials as a result of problems such as inconclusive or negative results, poorly executed testing, a failure of a clinical site to adhere to the clinical protocol or an unacceptable study design; • an insufficient supply of product materials or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • the need to qualify new suppliers of product materials for FDA and foreign regulatory approval; • an unfavorable FDA inspection or review of a clinical trial site or records of any clinical investigation; • the occurrence of unacceptable drug-related side effects or adverse events experienced by participants in our clinical trials; or • the placement of a trial on a clinical hold. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA or other regulatory authorities, or Institutional Review Boards or Ethics Committees due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • unforeseen safety issues or any determination that a trial presents unacceptable health risks; or • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial, including the incurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional trials and studies and increased expenses associated with the services of our contract research organizations, CROs, and other third parties. Changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to Institutional Review Boards or Ethics Committees for re-examination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. If the results of our clinical trials are not available when we expect or if we encounter any delay in the analysis of data from our clinical trials, we may be unable to file for regulatory approval or conduct additional clinical trials on the schedule we currently anticipate. Any delays in completing our clinical trials may increase our development costs, would slow down our product development and regulatory submission process, could delay our receipt of product revenue and could make it difficult to raise additional capital. Many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product. In addition, significant clinical trial delays also could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our future products and may harm our business. 27 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to conduct portions of our preclinical research and clinical trials. If these third parties do not perform as contractually required or otherwise expected, or if we fail to adequately supervise or monitor these parties, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our products. We rely on third parties, such as CROs and research institutions, to conduct a portion of our preclinical research. We also rely on third parties, such as medical institutions, clinical investigators and CROs, to assist us in conducting our clinical trials. Nonetheless, we are responsible for confirming that our preclinical research and clinical trials are conducted in accordance with applicable regulations, the relevant trial protocol and within the context of approvals by an Institutional Review Board or Ethics Committee, and we may not always be successful in ensuring such compliance. Our reliance on these third parties does not relieve us of responsibility for ensuring compliance with FDA and other regulations and standards for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of preclinical research and clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our preclinical and clinical development processes may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our products. We have no capacity to manufacture clinical or commercial supplies of our products and intend to rely solely on third parties to manufacture clinical and commercial supplies of all of our products. We do not intend to manufacture our products for our clinical trials or on a commercial scale and intend to rely on third parties to do so. With the exception of our agreement with Hospira for the commercial supply of liquid OMS103HP, we have not yet entered into any agreement for the commercial supply of any of our products, including OMS302, and can provide no assurance that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any significant delays in the manufacture of clinical or commercial supplies of our products could materially harm our business and prospects. If the contract manufacturers that we rely on experience difficulties with manufacturing our products or fail FDA inspections, our clinical trials, regulatory submissions and ability to commercialize our products and generate revenue may be significantly delayed. Contract manufacturers that we select to manufacture our products for clinical testing or for commercial use may encounter difficulties with the small- and large-scale formulation and manufacturing processes required for such manufacture. These difficulties could result in delays in clinical trials, regulatory submissions, or commercialization of our products. Once a product is approved and being marketed, these difficulties could also result in the later recall or withdrawal of the product from the market or failure to have adequate supplies to meet market demand. Even if we are able to establish additional or replacement manufacturers, identifying these sources and entering into definitive supply agreements and obtaining regulatory approvals may require a substantial amount of time and cost and such supply arrangements may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, we and our contract manufacturers must comply with current good manufacturing practice requirements strictly enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. We or our contract manufacturers may be unable to comply with current good manufacturing practice requirements or with other FDA, state, local and foreign regulatory requirements. Although we have obligations to review their compliance, we have little control over our contract manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards, or with their quality control and quality assurance procedures. Large-scale manufacturing processes that have been developed for our products will require validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. 28 Table of Contents Failure to comply with these requirements by our contract manufacturers could result in the initiation of enforcement actions by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, as well as sanctions being imposed on us, including fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any product supplied by contract manufacturers is compromised due to their failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize one or more of our products, which would harm our business and prospects significantly. If one or more of our contract manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties or otherwise fail to comply with its contractual obligations, our ability to provide products to patients in our clinical trials or on a commercial scale would be jeopardized. Any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical trial supplies could delay the completion of our clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining our clinical trial programs and, depending on the period of delay, require us to commence new trials at significant additional expense or terminate the trials completely. If we need to change to other commercial manufacturers, the FDA and comparable foreign regulators must first approve these manufacturers’ facilities and processes, which could require new testing and compliance inspections, and the new manufacturers would have to be educated in or independently develop the processes necessary for the production of our products. Ingredients necessary to manufacture our PharmacoSurgery products may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, which may delay the development and commercialization of our products. We must purchase from third-party suppliers the ingredients necessary for our contract manufacturers to produce our PharmacoSurgery products for our clinical trials and, if approved, for commercial distribution. Suppliers may not sell these ingredients to us at the time we need them or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Although we intend to enter into agreements with third-party suppliers that will guarantee the availability and timely delivery of ingredients for our PharmacoSurgery products, we have not yet entered into and we may be unable to secure any such supply agreements or guarantees. Even if we were able to secure such agreements or guarantees, our suppliers may be unable or choose not to provide us the ingredients in a timely manner or in the minimum guaranteed quantities. If we are unable to obtain and then supply these ingredients to our contract manufacturers for our clinical trials, potential regulatory approval of our products would be delayed, significantly impacting our ability to develop our products, which would materially affect our ability to generate revenue from the sale of our products. We may need licenses for active ingredients from third parties so that we can develop and commercialize some products from some of our current preclinical programs, which could increase our development costs and delay our ability to commercialize products. Should we decide to use active ingredients in any of our products that are proprietary to one or more third parties, we would need to obtain licenses to those active ingredients from those third parties. For example, we intend to use proprietary active ingredients that we have exclusively licensed from Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd. for our PDE7 program. If we are unable to access rights to these active ingredients prior to conducting preclinical toxicology studies intended to support clinical trials, we may need to develop alternate products from these programs by either accessing or developing alternate active ingredients, resulting in increased development costs and delays in commercialization of these products. If we are unable to access rights to the desired active ingredients on commercially reasonable terms or develop suitable alternate active ingredients, we may not be able to commercialize products from these programs. 29 Table of Contents Our agreements with Vulcan and LSDF include terms that may reduce the purchase price that a third party would be willing to pay for the GPCR program or for us in a change of control, should we elect to proceed with either of such transactions. Under our GPCR funding agreement with Vulcan, if we decide to sell or assign all or substantially all of the assets in our GPCR program prior to the time that Vulcan has received $60.0 million from us under our agreement, Vulcan may require that the purchaser assume all of our rights and obligations pursuant to the agreement, including our obligation to pay tiered percentages of any net proceeds that we receive from the GPCR program. The term of the Vulcan agreement is at least 35 years. If, at our option, we elect to assign the LSDF agreement in connection with the sale of the GPCR program, a potential purchaser would also have to assume similar payment obligations to LSDF. Potential purchasers of our GPCR program may be less inclined to purchase the program because of these obligations. Further, even if they are willing to assume our rights and obligations, they may be unwilling to pay as much for our GPCR program as they would be without such requirement. In addition, if a transaction results in a change of control of Omeros, the acquiring party will be required to assume our rights and obligations under the Vulcan and LSDF agreements. As a result of these provisions, a party that wants to acquire us through a change of control may be less inclined to do so or not be willing to pay as much. We have granted Vulcan a lien on all of our GPCR assets, excluding intellectual property, that provides Vulcan a right, senior to our shareholders, to receive proceeds generated from a liquidation of our GPCR assets as well as potentially limiting our operating and financial flexibility. We have granted Vulcan a lien on all of our GPCR assets, excluding intellectual property, to secure our obligations under our agreement with Vulcan. This lien is, and will continue to be, junior to security interests we grant to third parties, such as Oxford, in connection with indebtedness for borrowed money. The lien will automatically be released once we have paid Vulcan or its affiliate $25.0 million out of net proceeds received from the GPCR program. If we default under our agreement with Vulcan, in certain circumstances Vulcan may, subject to the rights of any holders of senior security interests, take control of such pledged assets. We have also agreed with Vulcan not to grant any liens on our GPCR-related intellectual property related to our cellular redistribution assay, subject to specified exceptions. If we are liquidated, Vulcan’s right to receive any payments then due under our agreement would be senior to the rights of the holders of our common stock to receive any proceeds from the liquidation of our GPCR program assets. Further, the junior lien and negative pledge on our intellectual property restrict our operating and financial flexibility, potentially limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities and making it more difficult for us to respond to changes in our business. We may not be successful in partnering new drug targets made accessible by our GPCR program. To fully exploit the developments arising from our GPCR program, we intend to partner or out-license our proprietary rights associated with some of the new drug targets made accessible by our GPCR program. There can be no assurance that we will enter into any such agreements and, even if we do, that the terms of any such agreements will be favorable to us. For example, potential partners may require that we first advance the development and optimization of functionally active compounds identified from our high-throughput screening of orphan GPCRs prior to entering into a licensing or other partnering arrangement, requiring us to invest substantial resources without any certainty that we will successfully optimize one or more of the compounds or recover our investment. Potential partners may also require that we obtain the issuance of patents protecting the new drug targets and compounds that interact with those targets. We may not be successful in obtaining the issuance of such patents for the targets and compounds we intend to partner or for the targets and compounds we intend to develop ourselves and, even if we do, the breadth of our patent rights may be inadequate or may be viewed as inadequate by potential partners. Further, if we are unable to secure the issuance of patents or patents of adequate breadth, we may be unable to exclude competitors from developing and commercializing compounds that interact with GPCR targets, limiting our ability to successfully commercialize these targets either independently or with a partner. 30 Table of Contents Our ability to pursue the development and commercialization of products from our MASP-2 program depends on the continuation of licenses from third parties. Our MASP-2 program is based in part on intellectual property rights that we licensed on a worldwide exclusive basis from the University of Leicester, the UK Medical Research Council at Oxford University and Helion. The continued maintenance of these agreements requires us to undertake development activities and, if regulatory approval for marketing is obtained, to pay royalties to each of these organizations upon commercialization of a MASP-2 product. In addition, we are obligated to pay Helion up to $6.9 million upon the achievement of certain events related to a MASP-2 product, such as the filing of an Investigational New Drug Application with the FDA, initiation of clinical trials, receipt of marketing approval and reaching specified sales milestones. Our ability to continue development and commercialization of products from our MASP-2 program depends on our maintaining these exclusive licenses, which cannot be assured. Our ability to pursue the development and commercialization of products from our MASP-2 and Plasmin programs depends on third-party developers and manufacturers of biologic drug products. Any product from our MASP-2 or Plasmin programs would be a biologic drug product and we do not have the internal capability to sequence, hybridize or clone biologics or to produce them for use in clinical trials or on a commercial scale. We do not currently have agreements in place with manufacturers of biologics to manufacture clinical or commercial quantities of drug product for our MASP-2 or Plasmin programs and cannot be certain that such agreements could be entered into on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. There are only a limited number of manufacturers of biologic drug products. If we are unable to obtain clinical supplies of drug product for one of these programs, clinical trials or the development of any such product for that program could be substantially delayed until we can find and qualify a manufacturer, which may increase our development costs, slow down our product development and approval process, delay receipt of product revenue and make it difficult to raise additional capital. Our preclinical programs may not produce products that are suitable for clinical trials or that can be successfully commercialized or generate revenue through partnerships. Any products from our preclinical programs, including our PDE7, MASP-2, Plasmin and GPCR programs, must successfully complete preclinical testing, which may include demonstrating efficacy and the lack of toxicity in established animal models, before entering clinical trials. Many pharmaceutical and biological products do not successfully complete preclinical testing and, even if preclinical testing is successfully completed, may fail in clinical trials. In addition, there can be no assurance that positive results from preclinical studies will be predictive of results obtained from subsequent preclinical studies or clinical trials. For example, our studies of PDE7 inhibitors in different animal models of Parkinson’s disease, which may or may not be relevant to the mechanism of action of PDE7 inhibitors in humans, have produced varying results. Further, we cannot be certain that any of our preclinical product development programs will generate products that are suitable for clinical testing. For example, we have not yet generated any products from our GPCR program. We may discover that there are fewer drugable targets among the orphan GPCRs than we currently estimate and that, for those orphan GPCRs for which we identify functionally active compounds that we elect to develop independently, we are unable to develop related products that successfully complete preclinical or clinical testing. If we are unable to develop products, potential corporate partners may be unwilling to enter into partnership agreements with us. We also cannot be certain that any products that do advance into clinical trials will successfully demonstrate safety and efficacy in clinical trials. Even if we achieve positive results in early clinical trials, they may not be predictive of the results in later trials. 31 Table of Contents Because we have a number of development programs and are considering a variety of products, we may expend our limited resources to pursue a particular product or products and fail to capitalize on products or indications that may be more profitable or for which there is a greater likelihood of success. Because we have limited resources, we must focus on clinical and preclinical development programs and products that we believe are the most promising. As a result, we may forego or delay pursuit of opportunities with other products or other indications that later prove to have greater commercial potential and may not be able to progress development programs, including our GPCR program, as rapidly as otherwise possible. Our resource allocation decisions may cause us to fail to capitalize on viable commercial products or profitable market opportunities. Further, if we do not accurately evaluate the commercial potential or target market for a particular product, we may relinquish valuable rights to that product through collaboration, license or other royalty arrangements in cases in which it would have been advantageous for us to retain sole development and commercialization rights. It is difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary technologies, and we may not be able to ensure their protection. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection for the use, formulation and structure of our products, the methods used to manufacture them, the related therapeutic targets and associated methods of treatment, as well as on successfully defending these patents against potential third-party challenges. Our ability to protect our products from unauthorized making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing by third parties is dependent on the extent to which we have rights under valid and enforceable patents that cover these activities. The patent positions of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the United States, and tests used for determining the patentability of patent claims in all technologies are in flux. The pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences patent situation outside the United States is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Further, the determination that a patent application or patent claim meets all of the requirements for patentability is a subjective determination based on the application of law and jurisprudence. For example, in the United States, a determination of patentability by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, or validity by a court or other trier of fact requires a determination that the claimed invention has utility and is both novel and non-obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art in view of prior known publications and public information, and that the patent specification supporting the claim adequately describes the claimed invention, discloses the best mode known to the inventors for practicing the invention, and discloses the invention in a manner that enables one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention, such as for our target-based technologies. The ultimate determination by the USPTO or by a court of other trier of fact in the United States, or corresponding foreign national patent offices or courts, on whether a claim meets all requirements of patentability cannot be assured. Although we have conducted searches for third-party publications, patents and other information that may impact the patentability of claims in our various patent applications and patents, we cannot be certain that all relevant information has been identified. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or patent applications, our licensed patents or patent applications or in third-party patents. We cannot assure you that any of our patent applications will be found to be patentable, including over our own prior art patents, or will issue as patents, nor can we make assurances as to the scope of any claims that may issue from these pending and future patent applications or to the outcome of any proceedings by any potential third parties that could challenge the patentability, validity or enforceability of our patents and patent applications in the United States or foreign jurisdictions, which could limit patent protection for our products and materially harm our business. 32 Table of Contents The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by any of our patents, if issued, or our pending patent applications; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products or duplicate any of our technologies or products; • we may not be able to generate sufficient data to fully support patent applications that protect the entire breadth of developments expected to result from our development programs, including the GPCR program; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents or, if issued, that these patents will be sufficient to protect our technology or provide us with a basis for commercially viable products or provide us with any competitive advantages; • if our pending applications issue as patents, they may be challenged by third parties as not infringed, invalid or unenforceable under U.S. or foreign laws; • if issued, the patents under which we hold rights may not be valid or enforceable; or • we may develop additional proprietary technologies or products that are not patentable and which are unlikely to be adequately protected through trade secrets if, for example, a competitor were to independently develop duplicative, similar or alternative technologies or products. In addition, to the extent we are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for one of our products or in the event such patent protection expires, it may no longer be cost-effective to extend our portfolio by pursuing additional development of a product for follow-on indications. We also may rely on trade secrets to protect our technologies or products, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third-party entity illegally obtained and is using any of our trade secrets is expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. If we choose to go to court to stop someone else from using our inventions, that individual or company has the right to ask the court to rule that the underlying patents are invalid or should not be enforced against that third party. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources even if we were successful in stopping the infringement of these patents. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of these patents is upheld, the court will refuse to stop the other party on the ground that such other party’s activities do not infringe the patents. Further, a third party may claim that we or our contract manufacturers are using inventions covered by the third party’s patent rights and may go to court to stop us from engaging in the alleged infringing activity, including making, using or selling our products. These lawsuits are costly and could affect our results of operations and divert the attention of managerial and technical personnel. There is a risk that a court would 33 Table of Contents decide that we or our contract manufacturers are infringing the third party’s patents and would order us or our partners to stop the activities covered by the patents. In addition, there is a risk that a court will order us or our contract manufacturers to pay the other party’s damages for having violated the other party’s patents. We have indemnified our contract manufacturers against certain patent infringement claims and thus may be responsible for any of their costs associated with such claims and actions. The pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences industry has produced a proliferation of patents, and it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products or methods of use. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts and the interpretation is not always uniform. If we were sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products or methods of use either do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent or that the patent claims are invalid, and we may not be able to do this. Proving invalidity, in particular, is difficult since it requires clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents. Although we have conducted searches of third-party patents with respect to our programs, these searches may not have identified all relevant third-party patents. Consequently, we cannot assure you that third-party patents containing claims covering our products, programs, technologies or methods do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued. Because some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing, and because publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our patents, our licensors’ patents, our pending applications or our licensors’ pending applications, or that we or our licensors were the first to invent or the first to file patent applications for inventions embodied in our technologies. Our competitors may have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering technologies similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our or our licensors’ patent applications and could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. If our or our licensors’ pending patent applications issue as patents, we can provide you no assurances that the patents will not be challenged in post-grant review or inter-parties review proceedings. If another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in interference derivation proceeding declared by the USPTO to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position with respect to such inventions. Similar patent opposition proceedings in other countries and regions may also be costly and could result in the loss of patent rights in those countries and regions. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the capital necessary to continue our operations. The terms of our debt facility place restrictions on our operating and financial flexibility and, if we raise additional capital through debt financing, the terms of any new debt could further restrict our ability to operate our business. We borrowed $20.0 million pursuant to the terms of a loan and security agreement, as amended, with Oxford, pursuant to which our outstanding principal balance was $20.0 million as of December 31, 2012. As collateral for this loan, we pledged substantially all of our assets other than intellectual property. Our agreement with Oxford restricts our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends and engage in significant business transactions such as a change of control of Omeros, so long as we owe any amounts to Oxford under the agreement. Any of these restrictions could significantly limit our operating and financial flexibility and ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive activities. In addition, if we default under our agreement, Oxford may have the right to accelerate all of our repayment obligations under the agreement and to take control 34 Table of Contents of our pledged assets, which include our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, potentially requiring us to renegotiate our agreement on terms less favorable to us. Further, if we are liquidated, Oxford’s right to repayment would be senior to the rights of the holders of our common stock to receive any proceeds from the liquidation. An event of default under the loan and security agreement includes the occurrence of any material adverse effect upon our business operations, properties, assets, results of operations or financial condition, taken as a whole with respect to our viability, that would reasonably be expected to result in our inability to repay the loan. If Oxford declares a default upon the occurrence of any event that it interprets as having a material adverse effect upon us as defined under our agreement, we will be required to repay the loan immediately or to attempt to reverse Oxford’s declaration through negotiation or litigation. Any declaration by Oxford of an event of default could significantly harm our business and prospects and could cause our stock price to decline. If we raise any additional debt financing, the terms of such debt could further restrict our operating and financial flexibility. We use hazardous materials in our business and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive. Our research operations produce hazardous waste products, which include chemicals and radioactive and biological materials. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local regulations relating to the use, handling, storage and disposal of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with applicable legal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. We generally contract with third parties for the disposal of such substances and store our low-level radioactive waste at our facilities until the materials are no longer considered radioactive. We may be required to incur further costs to comply with current or future environmental and safety regulations. In addition, although we carry insurance, in the event of accidental contamination or injury from these materials, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our insurance coverage and other resources. The loss of members of our management team could substantially disrupt our business operations. Our success depends to a significant degree on the continued individual and collective contributions of our management team. The members of our management team are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies other than on the life of Gregory Demopulos, M.D., our president, chief executive officer and chairman of the board of directors and, on an interim basis, our chief financial officer and treasurer. Losing the services of any key member of our management team, whether from death or disability, retirement, competing offers or other causes, could delay the execution of our business strategy, cause us to lose a strategic partner, or otherwise materially affect our operations. We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to maintain our operations or grow effectively. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. If we are unable to hire and train a sufficient number of qualified employees for any reason, we may not be able to implement our current initiatives or grow effectively. We have in the past maintained a rigorous, highly selective and time-consuming hiring process. We believe that our approach to hiring has significantly contributed to our success to date. If we do not succeed in attracting qualified personnel and retaining and motivating existing personnel, our existing operations may suffer and we may be unable to grow effectively. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited financial resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations. 35 Table of Contents We are involved in a lawsuit with one of our former insurance carriers that, if we lose, could materially affect our financial position and cause our stock price to decline. Omeros, our chief executive officer and Richard J. Klein, our former chief financial officer and treasurer, entered into a settlement agreement and release effective October 26, 2012, or the Settlement Agreement, under which all of the parties released their respective claims in the lawsuit filed by Mr. Klein. Carolina Casualty Insurance Company, or CCIC, was the carrier for our directors, officers and corporate liability insurance coverage at the time Mr. Klein’s employment with us was terminated. On February 21, 2012, CCIC filed a complaint for a declaratory judgment against Omeros, Dr. Demopulos and Mr. Klein in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington, seeking a declaration that it owes no duty to indemnify or defend us or Dr. Demopulos against the allegations raised by Mr. Klein. On May 10, 2012, Omeros and Dr. Demopulos filed counterclaims against CCIC alleging that CCIC breached its duty to defend under the insurance policy, acted unreasonably and in bad faith, and unreasonably denied a claim for coverage in violation of Washington law. CCIC has paid, in part, our costs and fees associated with the defense of our lawsuit with Mr. Klein, subject to a reservation of rights. We have paid the remaining portion of the costs and fees of defending the claims raised by Mr. Klein. Additionally, on November 19, 2012 CCIC advanced $3.95 million to reimburse us for the $3.94 million payment we made to Mr. Klein under the terms of the Settlement Agreement as well as related employment taxes we paid of approximately $13,000. CCIC made this payment without waiving any of its rights, including a potential claim seeking recovery of the advanced amount, and without affecting any of our or our chief executive officer’s counterclaims, including for failure to defend and bad faith, against CCIC in the pending lawsuit against CCIC. While we are vigorously defending the declaratory judgment action and pursuing our counterclaims, and intend to vigorously defend CCIC’s anticipated attempt to recover the settlement funds, we can provide no assurances regarding the outcome of the litigation with CCIC. If we are required to repay to CCIC the settlement funds or any part of our defense costs and fees borne by CCIC, or both, our financial position may be materially negatively affected and our stock price may decline. The Settlement Agreement with Mr. Klein does not preclude the U.S. government from seeking recovery from us under the Federal False Claims Act or pursuing other administrative remedies against us. During Mr. Klein’s employment with us, he used our Whistleblower Policy procedures to report to the chairman of our audit committee that we had submitted grant reimbursement claims in connection with our GPCR program to the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, for work that we had not performed. In accordance with the Whistleblower Policy and its charter, our audit committee, with special outside counsel, commenced an independent investigation of our NIH grant and claims procedures. The investigation concluded that we had not submitted claims to the NIH for work we had not performed. In his subsequent lawsuit against us, Mr. Klein asserted claims on behalf of the United States government under the Federal False Claims Act, or the Qui Tam Claims, which were based on the same NIH grant that was the subject of Mr. Klein’s whistleblower report and related NIH grants totaling $1.3 million. Following an investigation of the Qui Tam Claims, in October 2011 the U.S. government declined to intervene in the lawsuit. In our subsequent Settlement Agreement with Mr. Klein, he released all of his rights under the Qui Tam Claims. However, because the Qui Tam Claims were made on behalf of the U.S. government, Mr. Klein did not have the authority to settle them on behalf of the U.S. government and such claims accordingly were dismissed without prejudice to the U.S. government. Notwithstanding the Settlement Agreement with Mr. Klein or the U.S. government’s earlier decision not to intervene with respect to the Qui Tam Claims, the U.S. government is not precluded from asserting those claims against us under the Federal False Claims Act, or from seeking administrative remedies. We are currently cooperating with an administrative review by the NIH of two grants that were the subject of Mr. Klein’s claims. If the U.S. government were to pursue claims under the Federal False Claims Act or any administrative remedies, defending ourselves could require us to spend significant resources and harm our relationship with the NIH, which has continued to award us grants, including for our work in GPCRs, during the course of these proceedings. Additionally, potential remedies under the Federal False Claims 36 Table of Contents Act include penalties, treble damages and attorneys’ fees and costs. If the U.S. government threatens or proceeds with a lawsuit against us or seeks administrative remedies, defending or settling such an action or otherwise settling such possible claims may have a material negative effect on our financial position, harm our reputation and cause our stock price to decline. As a public company we incur increased costs and demands on management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could affect our operating results. As a public company we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act and the requirements of the related SEC rules and regulations may increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may also place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. We also expect that these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage than was previously available. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers. We are required to make an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Further, our independent registered public accounting firm has been engaged to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Section 404 requires us to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for each fiscal year. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. If we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404, management may not be able to assess whether our internal control over financial reporting is effective, which may subject us to adverse regulatory consequences and could result in a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, if we fail to maintain effective controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner or otherwise comply with the standards applicable to us as a public company. Any failure by us to provide the required financial information in a timely manner could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and the market value of our securities. Risks Related to Our Industry Our competitors may develop products that are less expensive, safer or more effective, or which may otherwise diminish or eliminate the commercial success of any products that we may commercialize. If our competitors market products that are less expensive, safer or more effective than our future products developed from our products, that reach the market before our products, or that otherwise negatively affect the market, we may not achieve commercial success. For example, other pharmaceutical companies, many with significantly greater resources than we have, are developing PDE10 inhibitors similar to our product OMS824, and these companies may be further along in development and able to develop their products at a faster rate than we are. Pfizer Inc. recently announced that its PDE10 inhibitor product candidate failed to demonstrate efficacy in a Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating the compound in acute exacerbation of schizophrenia. This and other 37 Table of Contents potential clinical trial failures of PDE10 inhibitor product candidates may negatively reflect on the ability of OMS824 to demonstrate safety and efficacy. In addition, we believe that other companies are attempting to find compounds that functionally interact with orphan GPCRs. If any of these companies are able to achieve this for a given orphan GPCR before we do, we may be unable to establish a commercially valuable intellectual property position around that orphan GPCR. Further, the failure of any future products that we may develop to effectively compete with products marketed by our competitors would impair our ability to generate revenue, which would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect to compete with other biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and our competitors may: • develop and market products that are less expensive or more effective than any future products that we may develop; • commercialize competing products before we can launch any products that we may develop; • operate larger research and development programs, possess commercial-scale manufacturing operations or have substantially greater financial resources than we do; • initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully than we can; • have greater success in recruiting skilled technical and scientific workers from the limited pool of available talent; • more effectively negotiate third-party licenses and strategic relationships; and • take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily than we can. We expect to compete for market share against large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, new companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. In addition, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Because our research approach integrates many technologies, it may be difficult for us to remain current with rapid changes in each technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we may be unable to compete effectively. Our competitors may render our technologies obsolete by advances in existing technological approaches or the development of new or different approaches, potentially eliminating the advantages in our product discovery process that we believe we derive from our research approach and proprietary technologies and programs. In addition, physicians may continue with their respective current treatment practices, including the use of current preoperative and postoperative treatments, rather than adopt our PharmacoSurgery products. Our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products if and when any of them are approved. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, together with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, and advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or the approval may contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or their manufacture, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in: • restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes; • withdrawal of the products from the market; • voluntary or mandatory recalls; 38 Table of Contents • fines; • suspension of regulatory approvals; • product seizures; or • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements or policies, we may lose marketing approval for our products when and if any of them are approved. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products internationally. We intend to have our products marketed outside the United States. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other non-U.S. jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. We may be unable to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing and data review. The time required to obtain foreign regulatory approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval discussed in these “Risk Factors.” We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other foreign countries or by the FDA. The failure to obtain these approvals could harm our business. If we are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from governments or third-party payors for any products that we may develop or if we are unable to obtain acceptable prices for those products, they may not be purchased or used and, as a result, our revenue and prospects for profitability could suffer. Our future revenue and profit will depend heavily on the availability of adequate reimbursement for the use of our approved products from governmental and other third-party payors, both in the United States and in other countries. Even if we are successful in bringing one or more products to market, these products may not be considered cost-effective, and the amount reimbursed for any product may be insufficient to allow us to sell the product profitably. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend on a number of factors, including the third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is: • a covered benefit under its health plan; • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining reimbursement approval for a product from each government or third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process that will require the build-out of a sufficient staff and could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost- effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payor. Because none of our products has been approved for marketing, we can provide no assurances at this time regarding their cost-effectiveness and the amount, if any, or method of reimbursement. Further, we can provide no assurance that the amounts, if any, reimbursed to surgical facilities for utilization of our surgery-related products or to surgeons for the administration and delivery of these products will be considered adequate to justify the use of these products. There may be significant delays in obtaining reimbursement coverage for newly approved products and we may 39 Table of Contents not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to reimbursement. Even when a payor determines that a product is eligible for reimbursement, coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the product is approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies. Increasingly, third-party payors who reimburse healthcare costs, such as government and private payors, are requiring that companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and challenging the prices charged for medical products. Moreover, eligibility for coverage does not mean that any product will be reimbursed at a rate that allows us to make a profit in all cases, or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacturing, sale and distribution. In non-U.S. jurisdictions, we must obtain separate reimbursement approvals and comply with related foreign legal and regulatory requirements. In some countries, including those in the European Union, our products may be subject to government price controls. Pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take a considerable amount of time and expenditure of resources after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. If the reimbursement we are able to obtain for any product we develop is inadequate in light of our development and other costs or is significantly delayed, our business could be materially harmed. Product liability claims may damage our reputation and, if insurance proves inadequate, these claims may harm our business. We may be exposed to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the biopharmaceutical industry. A product liability claim may damage our reputation by raising questions about our product’s safety and efficacy and could limit our ability to sell one or more products by preventing or interfering with commercialization of our products. In addition, product liability insurance for the biopharmaceutical industry is generally expensive to the extent it is available at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain and maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that we will be able to secure increased coverage if the commercialization of our products progresses, or that future claims against us will be covered by our product liability insurance. Although we currently have product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials, our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may be insufficient to reimburse us for any or all expenses or losses we may suffer. A successful claim against us with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. During the 12-month period ended December 31, 2012, our stock traded as high as $13.45 per share and as low as $3.96 per share. The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors could include: • FDA or EMA actions related to our NDA and MAA submissions for OMS302; • results from our clinical development programs, including the data from our ongoing clinical development programs evaluating OMS103HP and OMS824; • FDA or international regulatory actions related to any of our other products; • announcements regarding the progress of our preclinical programs and our GPCR program; • failure of any of our products, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, regulatory approvals, clinical milestones, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; 40 Table of Contents • third-party coverage and reimbursement policies; • additions or departures of key personnel; • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; • our ability to meet our repayment and other obligations under our loan facility with Oxford, pursuant to which our outstanding principal balance was $20.0 million as of December 31, 2012; • the inability of our contract manufacturers to provide us with adequate commercial supplies of our products; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • any major change in our board or management; • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets; and • political instability, natural disasters, war and/or events of terrorism. From time to time, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals or milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. Also, from time to time, we expect that we will publicly announce the anticipated timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet these milestones as publicly announced, our stock price may decline and the commercialization of our product and products may be delayed. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of publicly traded companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of companies’ stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance. These fluctuations may be even more pronounced in the trading market for our stock. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. We expect that we will seek additional capital in the future; however, such capital may not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all, when or as we require additional funding. If we issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that may be convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, our common stock, our existing shareholders would experience further dilution. Although we expect to seek additional capital, except for our committed equity line financing facility described below, we have no commitments for additional capital and cannot be certain that it will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Continued disruptions in the global equity and credit markets may further limit our ability to access capital. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, including pursuant to our committed equity line financing facility or our at-the-market equity facility described below, our shareholders may experience significant dilution. Any debt financing, if available, may restrict our operations similar to our debt facility with Oxford. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of one or more of our products or one or more of our other research and development initiatives. We also could be required to seek collaborators for one or more of our current or future products at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable or on terms that are less favorable than otherwise might be 41 Table of Contents available or to relinquish or license on unfavorable terms our rights to technologies or products that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. We also may have insufficient funds or otherwise be unable to advance our preclinical programs, such as potential new drug targets developed from our GPCR program, to a point where they can generate revenue through partnerships, collaborations or other arrangements. Any of these events could significantly harm our business and prospects and could cause our stock price to decline. If we sell shares of our common stock under our at-the-market equity facility or committed equity line financing facility, our existing shareholders will experience immediate dilution and, as a result, our stock price may go down. In December 2012, we entered into an at-the-market equity facility, or ATM, with MLV & Co. LLC, or MLV, as sales agent under which we may sell up to $60.0 million of our common stock by any method deemed to be an “at-the-market” offering under SEC rules. If we sell shares under the ATM, such sales will dilute our existing shareholders and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. Although MLV is precluded from shorting our stock during the term of the ATM, the availability of the ATM to us as well as any sales of our common stock under the ATM, should we elect to use it, could encourage short sales by third parties, which could contribute to the further decline of our stock price. In May 2011, we entered into a committed equity line financing facility under which we are permitted to sell up to $40.0 million of our common stock to Azimuth Opportunity, Ltd., or Azimuth, over a 24-month period subject to a maximum of 4,427,562 shares of our common stock. If we elect to use the facility, the sale of shares of our common stock to Azimuth will have a dilutive impact on our existing shareholders. Azimuth may resell some or all of the shares we issue to it and such sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. To the extent of any such decline, any subsequent advances would require us to issue a greater number of shares of common stock to Azimuth in exchange for each dollar of the advance. Under these circumstances, our existing shareholders would experience greater dilution and the total amount of financing that we will be able to raise pursuant to the facility could be significantly lower than $40.0 million. In addition, this facility includes terms that limit the amount of committed proceeds we can raise in specified periods, which terms are described in Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. Because the Azimuth facility will expire on June 1, 2013, taking into account its limitations, we believe that the amount of committed proceeds that we could raise before June 1, 2013 would be significantly less than $40.0 million. Finally, although Azimuth is precluded from short sales of shares acquired pursuant to advances under the facility, the availability of the facility to us as well as any sales of our common stock under the facility, should we elect to use it, could encourage short sales by third parties, which could contribute to the further decline of our stock price. Future sales of shares by holders of outstanding warrants and options could cause our stock price to decline. Approximately 8.2 million shares of common stock that are either subject to outstanding warrants or subject to outstanding options or reserved for future issuance under our employee benefit plans will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Washington law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our shareholders, difficult and prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and under Washington law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on shareholder actions by less than unanimous written consent, restrictions on the ability of 42 Table of Contents shareholders to fill board vacancies and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Washington, we are governed by the provisions of Chapter 23B.19 of the Washington Business Corporation Act, which, among other things, restricts the ability of shareholders owning ten percent or more of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management by making it difficult for shareholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. We have never declared or paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Our business requires significant funding, and we have not generated any material revenue. We currently plan to invest all available funds and future earnings, if any, in the development and growth of our business. Additionally, under our loan and security agreement with Oxford, we have agreed not to pay any dividends so long as we have any outstanding obligations under the agreement. Therefore, we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, a rise in the market price of our common stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable, will be your sole source of potential gain in the foreseeable future, and you should not rely on an investment in our common stock for dividend income. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 