Risk Factors”. Overview We are one of China’s leading providers of wireless value-added services generally, and are the leading provider in terms of 2.5G wireless interactive entertainment, media and community services to customers of China Mobile, which has the largest mobile subscriber base in the world. According to Analysys International, based on our 2005 revenues, we were the leading provider on China Mobile’s networks of wireless value-added services on each of the WAP, MMS and Java TM technology platforms. We provide interactive entertainment, media and community services through multiple technology platforms to mobile phone users. We provide most of our services through 2.5G technology platforms, including WAP, MMS and JavaTM, which offer higher quality graphics, richer content and interactivity compared to 2G wireless services. We also offer a range of data and voice services through 2G technology platforms, including SMS, IVR and CRBT. -40- Table of Contents We were incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands on May 6, 2002. Our gross revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 were $77.8 million, whereas our gross revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004 were $48.0 million. Our net income for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $22.2 million, as compared to $20.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. For each quarter since our founding, we have devoted significant resources to product development. We have steadily built up our product development team in order to analyze consumer demands and to expand the range of our service offerings to attract new customers and increase usage among our existing customers. The size of our product development team increased from 320 persons as of December 31, 2004 to 534 persons as of December 31, 2005. In particular, we have strengthened our product development capabilities in the rapidly growing areas of mobile games, IVR and CRBT. We expect to remain committed in the coming year to enhancing our product development capabilities through a managed enlargement of our product development team while focusing on research for and development of proprietary technology and content. We have also committed significant resources since our founding to building our sales and marketing team, which we believe has been crucial in promoting our brand and placing our services in the hands of users by building our relationships with telecommunications operators and distribution channels. The size of our sales and marketing team increased from 110 persons in 21 provinces as of December 31, 2004 to 155 persons in 26 provinces as of December 31, 2005. In addition to expanding our sales and marketing team, we also have participated in joint promotional arrangements to promote our brand and services. We expect our focus on sales and marketing efforts to continue in the coming year. PRC regulations currently restrict foreign ownership of companies that provide value-added telecommunications services, which include wireless value-added services and Internet content services. To comply with PRC regulations, we conduct substantially all of our operations through Beijing AirInbox, Beijing Boya Wuji, Beijing WINT, Wuhan Chenxitong and BJXR, which are owned by PRC citizens. We have entered into loan agreements with each of the shareholders of Beijing AirInbox, pursuant to which we provided interest-free loans to each of the shareholders of Beijing AirInbox for a term of 10 years, in an aggregate amount of $1.2 million (RMB9.7 million) to be invested exclusively in Beijing AirInbox. We have also entered into a series of contractual arrangements with Beijing AirInbox, Beijing Boya Wuji, Beijing WINT, Wuhan Chengxitong, BJXR and their shareholders, including the exclusive technical and consulting services agreements and trademark and domain name license agreements pursuant to which we are entitled to receive service and license fees. In addition, we have entered into equity pledge agreements with each of the shareholders of each of our operating companies, pursuant to which each of the shareholders pledged all of his or her interest in our operating companies to us as security for the performance by each of our operating companies of their obligations under the exclusive technical and consulting services agreements. As a result of these contractual arrangements, under U.S. GAAP, we are the primary beneficiary of the investments in our operating companies and we consolidate their results of operations in our consolidated financial statements. For a description of the PRC regulations restricting foreign ownership of companies that provide wireless value-added services and Internet content services in China, see “