Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks relating to our business and industry The pizza category is highly competitive, and such competition could adversely affect our operating results. We compete in the United States against two national chains, as well as many regional and local businesses. We could experience increased competition from existing or new companies in the pizza category, which could create increasing pressures to grow our business in order to maintain our market share. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience downward pressure on prices, lower demand for our products, reduced margins, the inability to take advantage of new business opportunities and the loss of market share, all of which would have an adverse effect on our operating results and could cause our stock price to decline. We also compete on a broader scale with quick service and other international, national, regional and local restaurants. The overall food service market and the quick service restaurant sector are intensely competitive with respect to food quality, price, service, convenience and concept, and are often affected by changes in: • consumer tastes; • national, regional or local economic conditions; • disposable purchasing power; • demographic trends; and • currency fluctuations to the extent international operations are involved. We compete within the food service market and the quick service restaurant sector not only for customers, but also for management and hourly employees, suitable real estate sites and qualified franchisees. Our domestic distribution segment is also subject to competition from outside suppliers. If other suppliers, who meet our qualification standards, were to offer lower prices or better service to our franchisees for their ingredients and supplies and, as a result, our franchisees chose not to purchase from our domestic distribution centers, our financial condition, business and results of operations would be adversely affected. If we fail to successfully implement our growth strategy, which includes opening new domestic and international stores, our ability to increase our revenues and operating profits could be adversely affected. A significant component of our growth strategy is opening new domestic and international stores. We and our franchisees face many challenges in opening new stores, including, among others: • selection and availability of suitable store locations; • negotiation of acceptable lease or financing terms; • securing required domestic or foreign governmental permits and approvals; and • employment and training of qualified personnel. The opening of additional franchise stores also depends, in part, upon the availability of prospective franchisees who meet our criteria. Our failure to add a significant number of new stores would adversely affect our ability to increase revenues and operating income. We are currently planning to expand our international operations in markets where we currently operate and in selected new markets. This may require considerable management time as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. Operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may by affected by local economic and market conditions. Therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not experience the operating margins we expect, our results of operations may be negatively impacted and our common stock price may decline. We may also pursue strategic acquisitions as part of our business. If we are able to identify acquisition candidates, such acquisitions may be financed, to the extent permitted under our debt agreements, with substantial debt or with potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. The food service market is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. Changes in these preferences and perceptions may lessen the demand for our products, which would reduce sales and harm our business. Food service businesses are affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions, and demographic trends. For instance, if prevailing health or dietary preferences cause consumers to avoid pizza and other products we offer in favor of foods that are perceived as more healthy, our business and operating results would be harmed. Moreover, because we are primarily dependent on a single product, if consumer demand for pizza should decrease, our business would suffer more than if we had a more diversified menu, as many other food service businesses do. 16 Table of Contents Increases in food, labor and other costs could adversely affect our profitability and operating results. An increase in our operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. Factors such as inflation, increased food costs, increased labor and employee benefit costs and increased energy costs may adversely affect our operating costs. Most of the factors affecting costs are beyond our control and, in many cases, we may not be able to pass along these increased costs to our customers or franchisees. Most ingredients used in our pizza, particularly cheese, are subject to significant price fluctuations as a result of seasonality, weather, demand and other factors. The cheese block price per pound averaged $1.24 in 2006 and the estimated increase in Company-owned store food costs from a hypothetical $0.25 adverse change in the average cheese block price per pound would have been approximately $3.9 million in 2006. Labor costs are largely a function of the minimum wage for a majority of our store personnel and certain distribution center personnel and, generally, are a function of the availability of labor. Food, including cheese costs, and labor represent approximately 45% to 60% of a typical Company-owned store’s cost of sales. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. Assuming we complete the Recapitalization substantially as contemplated, we will hold a substantial amount of indebtedness and will be highly leveraged. In addition, none of the proceeds from the bridge loan facility or securitized debt, other than the securitized variable funding senior notes, are expected to be used for working capital. As of December 31, 2006, our consolidated long-term indebtedness was $741.6 million. We expect that after we complete the Recapitalization, assuming we refinance the bridge loan facility with the securitized debt and assuming no draws under the $150 million variable funding senior notes, our consolidated long-term indebtedness will be approximately $1.7 billion. We may also incur additional debt following the Recapitalization, which would not be prohibited under the terms of the securitized debt. Our substantial indebtedness and the fact that a large portion of our cash flow from operations must be used to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness could have important consequences to our business and our shareholders. For example, they could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt agreements; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt. In addition, the financial and other covenants we agree to with our lenders will limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay dividends and engage in other transactions, and the leverage may cause potential lenders to be less willing to loan funds to us in the future. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of repayment of all of our indebtedness. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our significant debt service obligations, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make principal and interest payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, if currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements are not realized on schedule, in the amounts projected or at all, or if future borrowings are not available to us under our senior secured credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled principal and interest payments on our debt obligations in the future, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, delay capital expenditures or seek additional equity. If we are unable to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all or to effect any other action relating to our indebtedness on satisfactory terms or at all, our business may be harmed. 17 Table of Contents The terms of the Domino’s, Inc. senior secured credit facility and senior subordinated notes have restrictive terms and our failure to comply with any of these terms could put us in default, which would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. Unless and until we repay all outstanding borrowings under our senior secured credit facility and successfully complete the debt tender offer as part of the Recapitalization, we will remain subject to the restrictive terms of these borrowings. The senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing the senior subordinated notes, in each case where our wholly-owned subsidiary Domino’s, Inc. is the borrower, contain a number of significant covenants. These covenants limit Domino’s, Inc.’s ability and the ability of Domino’s, Inc.’s restricted subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness and issue restricted subsidiary preferred stock; • make capital expenditures and other investments; • merge, consolidate or dispose of our assets or the capital stock or assets of any restricted subsidiary; • pay dividends, make distributions or redeem capital stock; • change our line of business; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; and • grant liens on our assets or the assets of our restricted subsidiaries. The senior secured credit facility also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests at the end of each fiscal quarter. These restrictions could affect our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock. Our ability to meet these financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not satisfy those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility. If the banks accelerate amounts owing under the senior secured credit facility because of a default under the senior secured credit facility and we are unable to pay such amounts, the banks have the right to foreclose on substantially all of our assets. Upon the occurrence of specific kinds of change of control events, Domino’s, Inc. must offer to repurchase all of its outstanding senior subordinated notes. It is possible, however, that we will not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of the senior subordinated notes or that restrictions in the senior secured credit facility will not allow such repurchase. The occurrence of some of the events that would constitute a change of control under the indenture would also constitute a default under the senior secured credit facility. Moreover, the exercise by the holders of the senior subordinated notes of their right to require Domino’s, Inc. to repurchase the senior subordinated notes could cause a default under such senior indebtedness, even if the change of control itself does not, due to the financial effect on us of such repurchase. A default under the indenture or the senior secured credit facility may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect to fund the equity tender offer, repay our existing senior secured credit facility, finance the debt tender offer and pay all related fees and expenses by drawing on the bridge loan facility and to refinance the bridge loan facility with new securitized debt. If we are unable to repay or refinance the bridge loan facility or the securitized debt, it could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition. We have obtained a commitment, subject to customary conditions, from a syndicate of banks to provide a bridge loan facility in connection with the Recapitalization. Draws made under the bridge loan facility will be subject to certain conditions. The initial draw is expected to be subject to, among other conditions, (i) the absence of any event, circumstance, development, change or effect that is or would be materially adverse to our business, to our ability to perform our obligations under the bridge loan documentation or to the rights and remedies of the lenders under the bridge loan documentation, or a “material adverse effect,” (ii) the absence of any continuing default or event of default and (iii) the accuracy of all representations and warranties in all material respects. Subsequent draws for purposes of funding the equity tender offer and the debt tender offer are expected to be conditioned upon (i) the absence of a material adverse effect, (ii) the absence of any litigation reasonably likely to result in a material adverse effect or prohibit, restrict or enjoin the transactions contemplated in the Recapitalization, (iii) the absence of a bankruptcy default and (iv) the accuracy of the representations and warranties relating to the financial statements and financial condition of Domino’s, Inc. All other borrowings under the bridge loan facility are expected to be subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including the absence of a default and the accuracy of representations and warranties. 18 Table of Contents The bridge loan facility is expected to be for a one-year term, but the bridge term loans may be converted into senior term loans maturing on the fifth anniversary of the initial drawing, subject to certain terms and conditions. We expect to refinance our borrowings under the bridge loan facility with new securitized debt. We expect that, during the first five years following issuance (assuming we do not exercise either of our two one-year interest only extension options following the five-year interest only period), the securitized debt will accrue interest at an original spread plus the five-year swap rate, after which it will be subject to amortization and may be subject to an increased interest rate if it is not repaid or refinanced. If we are unable to refinance or repay the amounts outstanding under the bridge loan facility prior to the expiration of the initial one-year term, either through borrowings under our expected securitized debt or otherwise, our financial position, results of operations and business could be adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to refinance the bridge loan facility with securitized debt in anticipated amounts we may not be able to pay the expected significant special cash dividend. If we are unable to refinance or repay amounts under the bridge loan facility prior to the expiration of the five-year term applicable to such debt, such failure would be an event of default under the credit agreement that governs the bridge loan facility. If we are unable to refinance or repay amounts under the anticipated securitized debt prior to the expiration of the five-year interest-only term (seven-year interest only term if we exercise both of our one-year extension elections), our cash flow would be directed to the repayment of the securitized debt and, other than a weekly fee sufficient to cover minimal selling, general and administrative expenses, would not be available for operating our business. No assurance can be given that any refinancing or additional financing will be possible when needed or that we will be able to negotiate acceptable terms. In addition, our access to capital is affected by prevailing conditions in the financial and capital markets and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that market conditions will be favorable at the times that we require new or additional financing. Our bridge loan facility will have restrictive terms, and our failure to comply with any of these terms could put us in default, which would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. We expect to enter into a bridge loan facility that will require that we comply on a quarterly basis with certain financial covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio test and a minimum interest coverage ratio test. In addition, we expect that the bridge loan facility will include negative covenants, subject to exceptions, restricting or limiting our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • sell assets; • alter the business we conduct; • engage in mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations; • declare dividends or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness or guarantees; • make loans and investments; • incur liens; • prepay, redeem or purchase certain subordinated indebtedness; • enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • make capital expenditures. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the bridge loan facility. If the banks were to accelerate amounts owing under the bridge loan facility because of a default and we were unable to pay such amounts, the banks would have the right to foreclose on substantially all of our assets. The indenture governing the securitized debt will restrict the cash flow from the entities subject to the securitization to any of our other entities, and upon the occurrence of certain events, cash flow would be further restricted. In the event that a rapid amortization event occurs under the indenture (including, without limitation, upon an event of default under the indenture or the failure to repay the securitized debt at the end of the five year interest-only period (or at the end of any extension period)), the funds available to us will be reduced or eliminated, which would in turn reduce our ability to operate or grow our business. 19 Table of Contents We do not have long-term contracts with many of our suppliers, and as a result they could seek to significantly increase prices or fail to deliver. We typically do not have written contracts or formal long-term arrangements with many of our suppliers. Although in the past we have not experienced significant problems with our suppliers, our suppliers may implement significant price increases or may not meet our requirements in a timely fashion, if at all. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Shortages or interruptions in the supply or delivery of fresh food products could adversely affect our operating results. We and our franchisees are dependent on frequent deliveries of fresh food products that meet our specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of fresh food products caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients, which would adversely affect our operating results. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of any of our dough manufacturing and distribution centers could harm our business. We operate 17 regional dough manufacturing and distribution centers and one vegetable processing distribution center in the contiguous United States and dough manufacturing and distribution centers in Alaska, Hawaii and Canada. Our domestic dough manufacturing and distribution centers service all of our company-owned stores and over 98% of our domestic franchise stores. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of any of these facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction or damage to the facility, real estate issues or other reasons, could adversely affect our business and operating results. We face risks of litigation from customers, franchisees, employees and others in the ordinary course of business, which diverts our financial and management resources. Any adverse litigation or publicity may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Claims of illness or injury relating to food quality or food handling are common in the food service industry. In addition, class action lawsuits have been filed, and may continue to be filed, against various quick service restaurants alleging, among other things, that quick service restaurants have failed to disclose the health risks associated with high-fat foods and that quick service restaurant marketing practices have encouraged obesity. In addition to decreasing our sales and profitability and diverting our management resources, adverse publicity or a substantial judgment against us could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and brand reputation, hindering our ability to attract and retain franchisees and grow our business. Further, we may be subject to employee, franchisee and other claims in the future based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment, wrongful termination and wage, rest break and meal break issues, including those relating to overtime compensation. We have been subject to these types of claims in the past, and we are currently subject to a purported class action claim of this type in California relating to rest break and meal break compensation, and if one or more of these claims were to be successful or if there is a significant increase in the number of these claims, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully. Our success in the highly competitive business of pizza delivery will continue to depend to a significant extent on our leadership team and other key management personnel. Other than with our chairman and chief executive officer, David A. Brandon, we do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our executive officers. As a result, we may not be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management. Our success also will continue to depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to operate our stores, dough manufacturing and distribution centers and international operations. The loss of these employees or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 20 Table of Contents Our international operations subject us to additional risk. Such risks and costs may differ in each country in which we do business, and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. We conduct a portion of our business outside the United States. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if global markets in which our franchise stores compete are affected by changes in political, economic or other factors. These factors, over which neither we nor our franchisees have control, may include: • recessionary or expansive trends in international markets; • changing labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing our foreign operations; • increases in the taxes we pay and other changes in applicable tax laws; • legal and regulatory changes and the burdens and costs of our compliance with a variety of foreign laws; • changes in inflation rates; • changes in exchange rates and the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; • difficulty in collecting our royalties and longer payment cycles; • expropriation of private enterprises; • political and economic instability; and • other external factors. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies may lead to lower revenues and earnings. Exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Approximately 8.1%, 8.6% and 8.6% of our total revenues were derived from our international segment in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively, a majority of which were denominated in foreign currencies. Sales made by our stores outside the United States are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and this currency could become less valuable prior to conversion to U.S. dollars as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. Unfavorable currency fluctuations could lead to increased prices to customers outside the United States or lower profitability to our franchisees outside the United States, or could result in lower revenues for us, on a U.S. dollar basis, from such customers and franchisees. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and branded products and adversely affect our business. We depend in large part on our brand and branded products and believe that they are very important to our business. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property rights to protect our brand and branded products. The success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to increase brand awareness and further develop our branded products in both domestic and international markets. We have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark registrations pending in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Not all of the trademarks that we currently use have been registered in all of the countries in which we do business, and they may never be registered in all of these countries. We may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks, and our use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution or unfair competition. All of the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in the United States and in foreign countries may not be adequate. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Further, through acquisitions of third parties, we may acquire brands and related trademarks that are subject to the same risks as the brands and trademarks we currently own. We may from time to time be required to institute litigation to enforce our trademarks or other intellectual property rights, or to protect our trade secrets. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our sales, profitability and prospects regardless of whether we are able to successfully enforce our rights. 21 Table of Contents Our earnings and business growth strategy depends on the success of our franchisees, and we may be harmed by actions taken by our franchisees that are outside of our control. A significant portion of our earnings comes from royalties generated by our franchise stores. Franchisees are independent operators, and their employees are not our employees. We provide limited training and support to franchisees, but the quality of franchise store operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Consequently, franchisees may not successfully operate stores in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, or may not hire and train qualified managers and other store personnel. If they do not, our image and reputation may suffer, and our revenues and stock price could decline. While we try to ensure that our franchisees maintain the quality of our brand and branded products, our franchisees may take actions that adversely affect the value of our intellectual property or reputation. As of December 31, 2006, we had 1,259 domestic franchisees operating 4,572 domestic stores. Five of these franchisees each operate over 50 domestic stores, including our largest domestic franchisee, which operates 140 stores, and the average franchisee operates three to four stores. In addition, our international master franchisees are generally responsible for the development of significantly more stores than our domestic franchisees. As a result, our international operations are more closely tied to the success of a smaller number of franchisees than our domestic operations. Our largest international master franchisee operates 620 stores in five markets, which accounts for approximately 19% of our total international store count. Our domestic and international franchisees may not operate their franchises successfully. If one or more of our key franchisees were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable or unwilling to pay us our royalties, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. We are subject to extensive government regulation, and our failure to comply with existing or increased regulations could adversely affect our business and operating results. We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to: • the preparation and sale of food; • building and zoning requirements; • environmental protection; • minimum wage, overtime and other labor requirements; • compliance with securities laws and New York Stock Exchange listed company rules; • compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act; and • working and safety conditions. We may become subject to legislation or regulation seeking to tax and/or regulate high-fat foods. If we fail to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, we may be subject to governmental or judicial fines or sanctions. In addition, our capital expenditures could increase due to remediation measures that may be required if we are found to be noncompliant with any of these laws or regulations. We are also subject to a Federal Trade Commission rule and to various state and foreign laws that govern the offer and sale of franchises. Additionally, these laws regulate various aspects of the franchise relationship, including terminations and the refusal to renew franchises. The failure to comply with these laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales, fines or other penalties or require us to make offers of rescission or restitution, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our current insurance coverage may not be adequate, insurance premiums for such coverage may increase and we may not be able to obtain insurance at acceptable rates, or at all. We have retention programs for workers’ compensation, general liability and owned and non-owned automobile liabilities. We are generally responsible for up to $1.0 million per occurrence under these retention programs for workers’ compensation and general liability. We are also generally responsible for between $500,000 and $3.0 million per occurrence under these retention programs for owned and non-owned automobile liabilities. Total insurance limits under these retention programs vary depending upon the period covered and range up to $108.0 million per occurrence for general liability and owned and non-owned automobile liabilities and up to the applicable statutory limits for workers’ compensation. These insurance policies may not be adequate to protect us from liabilities that we incur in our business. In addition, in the future our insurance premiums may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. Any such inadequacy of, or inability to obtain, insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are not required to, and do not, specifically set aside funds for our retention programs. 22 Table of Contents Our annual and quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our share price may decline significantly. Our sales and operating results can vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • variations in the timing and volume of our sales and our franchisees’ sales; • the timing of expenditures in anticipation of future sales; • sales promotions by us and our competitors; • changes in competitive and economic conditions generally; • changes in the cost or availability of our ingredients or labor; and • foreign currency exposure. As a result, our results of operations may decline quickly and significantly in response to changes in order patterns or rapid decreases in demand for our products. We anticipate that fluctuations in operating results will continue in the future. Our current principal stockholders have significant influence over us, and they could delay, deter or prevent a change of control or other business combination or otherwise cause us to take action with which you may disagree. Investment funds associated with Bain Capital, LLC together beneficially own approximately 27% of our outstanding common stock. Assuming the successful completion of the Recapitalization, the investment funds associated with Bain Capital, LLC together could beneficially own up to one-third of our outstanding common stock (and potentially more if there are open market repurchases in which these fund do not participate after completion of the Recapitalization). In addition, two of our directors are representatives of investment funds associated with Bain Capital, LLC. As a result, these investment funds associated with Bain Capital, LLC have significant influence over our decision to enter into any corporate transaction and may have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders regardless of whether or not other stockholders believe that such transaction is in their own best interests. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. Our common stock price could be subject to significant fluctuations and/or may decline. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • variations in our operating results; • changes in revenues or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as sales promotions, acquisitions or restructurings; • actions by institutional and other stockholders; • changes in our dividend policy; • changes in the market values of public companies that operate in our business segments; • the reaction of the investment community to the equity tender offer and other elements of the Recapitalization; • general market conditions; and • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general have recently experienced volatility that has sometimes been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. 23 Table of Contents After the completion of the equity tender offer, our common stock may have a significantly smaller public float, which could result in reduced liquidity for our common stock and greater volatility in the market price of our common stock. As of February 15, 2007, approximately 45,422,429 shares of our common stock were held by non-affiliated shareholders. Assuming the equity tender offer is fully subscribed, we estimate we will have approximately 32,700,165 shares held by non-affiliated shareholders following the Recapitalization. Historically, the common stock of a company with a smaller public float may be less liquid than the common stock of a company with broader public ownership, and the trading prices for the common stock of a company with a smaller public float may be more volatile than generally may be the case for more widely held common stock. Among other things, a decreased trading volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price of our common stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade in the future. Future open market purchases, if authorized, would further reduce our public float. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 