Item 1A. Risk Factors. The pizza category is highly competitive and such competition could adversely affect our operating results. We compete in the United States against three national chains, as well as many regional and local businesses. We could experience increased competition from existing or new companies in the pizza category which could create increasing pressures to grow our business in order to maintain our market share. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience downward pressure on prices, lower demand for our products, reduced margins, the inability to take advantage of new business opportunities and the loss of market share, all of which would have an adverse effect on our operating results and could cause our stock price to decline. We also compete on a broader scale with quick service and other international, national, regional and local restaurants. The overall food service market and the quick service restaurant sector are intensely competitive with respect to food quality, price, service, image, convenience and concept, and are often affected by changes in: • consumer tastes; • national, regional or local economic conditions; • disposable purchasing power; • demographic trends; and • currency fluctuations related to our international operations. We compete within the food service market and the quick service restaurant sector not only for customers, but also for management and hourly employees, suitable real estate sites and qualified franchisees. Our domestic supply chain segment is also subject to competition from outside suppliers. If other suppliers who meet our qualification standards were to offer lower prices or better service to our franchisees for their ingredients and supplies and, as a result, our franchisees chose not to purchase from our domestic supply chain centers, our financial condition, business and results of operations would be adversely affected. If we fail to successfully implement our growth strategy, which includes opening new domestic and international stores, our ability to increase our revenues and operating profits could be adversely affected. A significant component of our growth strategy includes the opening of new domestic and international stores. We and our franchisees face many challenges in opening new stores, including, among others: • availability of financing with acceptable terms; • selection and availability of suitable store locations; • negotiation of acceptable lease or financing terms; • securing required domestic or foreign governmental permits and approvals; • employment and training of qualified personnel; and • general economic and business conditions. The opening of additional franchise stores also depends, in part, upon the availability of prospective franchisees who meet our criteria. Our failure to add a significant number of new stores would adversely affect our ability to increase revenues and operating income. 16 Table of Contents We are currently planning to expand our international operations in many of the markets where we currently operate and in selected new markets. This may require considerable management time as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. Operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local economic and market conditions. Therefore, as we expand internationally, we or our franchisees may not experience the operating margins we expect, our results of operations may be negatively impacted and our common stock price may decline. We may also pursue strategic acquisitions as part of our business. If we are able to identify acquisition candidates, such acquisitions may be financed, to the extent permitted under our debt agreements, with substantial debt or with potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. The food service market is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. Changes in these preferences and perceptions may lessen the demand for our products, which would reduce sales and harm our business. Food service businesses are affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions, and demographic trends. For instance, if prevailing health or dietary preferences cause consumers to avoid pizza and other products we offer in favor of foods that are perceived as more healthy, our business and operating results would be harmed. Moreover, because we are primarily dependent on a single product, if consumer demand for pizza should decrease, our business would suffer more than if we had a more diversified menu, as many other food service businesses do. Increases in food, labor and other costs could adversely affect our profitability and operating results. An increase in our operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. Factors such as inflation, increased food costs, increased labor and employee benefit costs, increased rent costs and increased energy costs may adversely affect our operating costs. Most of the factors affecting costs are beyond our control and, in many cases, we may not be able to pass along these increased costs to our customers or franchisees. Most ingredients used in our pizza, particularly cheese, are subject to significant price fluctuations as a result of seasonality, weather, demand and other factors. The cheese block price per pound averaged $1.50 in 2010, and the estimated increase in Company-owned store food costs from a hypothetical $0.25 adverse change in the average cheese block price per pound would have been approximately $2.2 million in 2010. Labor costs are largely a function of the minimum wage for a majority of our store personnel and certain supply chain center personnel and, generally, are also a function of the availability of labor. Food, including cheese costs and labor represent approximately 50% to 60% of a typical Company-owned store’s sales. We do not have long-term contracts with certain of our suppliers, and as a result they could seek to significantly increase prices or fail to deliver. We do not have written contracts or formal long-term arrangements with certain of our suppliers. Although in the past we have not experienced significant problems with our suppliers, our suppliers may implement significant price increases or may not meet our requirements in a timely fashion, or at all. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Shortages or interruptions in the supply or delivery of fresh food products could adversely affect our operating results. We and our franchisees are dependent on frequent deliveries of fresh food products that meet our specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of fresh food products caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, financial or other difficulties of suppliers, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients, which would adversely affect our operating results. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of any of our dough manufacturing and supply chain centers could harm our business. We operate 16 regional dough manufacturing and supply chain centers, one thin crust manufacturing center and one vegetable processing supply chain center in the contiguous United States and a total of six dough manufacturing and supply chain centers in Alaska, Hawaii and Canada. Our domestic dough manufacturing and supply chain centers service all of our Company-owned stores and over 99% of our domestic franchise stores. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of any of these facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction or damage to the facility, real estate issues or other reasons, could adversely affect our business and operating results. 17 Table of Contents We face risks of litigation and negative publicity from customers, franchisees, employees and others in the ordinary course of business, which diverts our financial and management resources. Any adverse litigation or publicity may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Claims of illness or injury relating to food quality or food handling are common in the food service industry. In addition, class action lawsuits have been filed, and may continue to be filed, against various quick service restaurants alleging, among other things, that quick service restaurants have failed to disclose the health risks associated with high-fat foods and that quick service restaurant marketing practices have encouraged obesity. In addition to decreasing our sales and profitability and diverting our management resources, adverse publicity or a substantial judgment against us could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and brand reputation, thereby hindering our ability to attract and retain franchisees and grow our business. Further, we may be subject to employee, franchisee and other claims in the future based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment, wrongful termination and wage, rest break and meal break issues, and those claims relating to overtime compensation. We have been subject to these types of claims in the past. If one or more of these claims were to be successful or if there is a significant increase in the number of these claims or if we receive significant negative publicity, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully. Our success in the highly competitive business of pizza delivery will continue to depend to a significant extent on our leadership team and other key management personnel. Other than with our President and Chief Executive Officer, J. Patrick Doyle, we do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our executive officers. As a result, we may not be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management. While we do not have long-term employment agreements with our executive officers, for eight of our eleven executive officers we have non-compete and non-solicitation agreements that extend for 24 months following the termination of such executive officer’s employment. Our success also will continue to depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to operate our stores, dough manufacturing and supply chain centers and international operations. The loss of these employees or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our international operations subject us to additional risk. Such risks and costs may differ in each country in which we do business and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. We conduct a growing portion of our business outside the United States. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if global markets in which our franchise stores compete are affected by changes in political, economic or other factors. These factors, over which neither we nor our franchisees have control, may include: • recessionary or expansive trends in international markets; • changing labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing our foreign operations; • increases in the taxes we pay and other changes in applicable tax laws; • legal and regulatory changes, and the burdens and costs of our compliance with a variety of foreign laws; • changes in inflation rates; • changes in exchange rates and the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; • difficulty in collecting our royalties and longer payment cycles; • expropriation of private enterprises; • political and economic instability; and • other external factors. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies may lead to lower revenues and earnings. Exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Approximately 10.0% of our total revenues in 2008, 10.5% of our total revenues in 2009 and 11.2% of our revenues in 2010 were derived from our international segment, a majority of which were denominated in foreign currencies. Sales made by franchise stores outside the United States are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and this currency could become less valuable prior to conversion to U.S. dollars as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. Unfavorable currency fluctuations could lead to increased prices to customers outside the United States or lower profitability to our franchisees outside the United States, or could result in lower revenues for us, on a U.S. dollar basis, from such customers and franchisees. A hypothetical 10% adverse change in the foreign currency rates in each of our top ten international markets, based on store count, would have resulted in a negative impact of approximately $6.7 million in 2010. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and branded products and adversely affect our business. We depend in large part on our brand and branded products and believe that they are very important to our business. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property rights to protect our brand and branded products. The success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to increase brand awareness and further develop our branded products in both domestic and international markets. We have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark registrations pending in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Not all of the trademarks that we currently use have been registered in all of the countries in which we do business, and they may never be registered in all of these countries. We may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks and our use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution or unfair competition. All of the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in the United States and in foreign countries may not be adequate. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Further, through acquisitions of third parties, we may acquire brands and related trademarks that are subject to the same risks as the brands and trademarks we currently own. We may from time to time be required to institute litigation to enforce our trademarks or other intellectual property rights, or to protect our trade secrets. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our sales, profitability and prospects regardless of whether we are able to successfully enforce our rights. Our earnings and business growth strategy depends on the success of our franchisees and we may be harmed by actions taken by our franchisees, or employees of our franchisees, that are outside of our control. A significant portion of our earnings comes from royalties generated by our franchise stores. Franchisees are independent operators, and their employees are not our employees. We provide limited training and support to franchisees, but the quality of franchise store operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Consequently, franchisees may not successfully operate stores in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, or may not hire and train qualified managers and other store personnel. If they do not, our image and reputation may suffer, and as a result our revenues and stock price could decline. While we try to ensure that our franchisees maintain the quality of our brand and branded products, our franchisees may take actions that adversely affect the value of our intellectual property or reputation. As of January 2, 2011, we had 1,117 domestic franchisees operating 4,475 domestic stores. Seven of these franchisees each operate over 50 domestic stores, including our largest domestic franchisee who operates 144 stores, and the average franchisee owns and operates four stores. In addition, our international master franchisees are generally responsible for the development of significantly more stores than our domestic franchisees. As a result, our international operations are more closely tied to the success of a smaller number of franchisees than our domestic operations. Our largest international master franchisee operates 815 stores in five markets, which accounts for approximately 18% of our total international store count. Our domestic and international franchisees may not operate their franchises successfully. If one or more of our key franchisees were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable or unwilling to pay us our royalties or other amounts owed, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. Interruption, failure or compromise of our information technology, communications systems and electronic data could hurt our ability to effectively serve our customers and protect customer data, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business and operating results. An increasingly significant portion of our retail sales depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems, including but not limited to, Domino’s PULSE™, our online ordering platform and our credit card processing systems. Our information technology, communication systems and electronic data may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, loss of data, unauthorized data breaches or other attempts to harm our systems. Additionally, we operate data centers that are also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism that could cause disruptions in our ability to serve our customers and protect customer data. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, intentional sabotage or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. Any errors or vulnerabilities in our systems, or damage to or failure of our systems, could result in interruptions in our services and non-compliance with certain regulations, which could reduce our revenues and profits, and damage our business and brand. 19 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive government regulation and requirements issued by other groups and our failure to comply with existing or increased regulations could adversely affect our business and operating results. We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, as well as, requirements issued by other groups, including those relating to: • the preparation and sale of food; • building and zoning requirements; • environmental protection; • minimum wage, overtime and other labor requirements; • compliance with securities laws and New York Stock Exchange listed company rules; • compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act; • working and safety conditions; • menu labeling and other nutritional requirements; • compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI DSS) and similar requirements; • compliance with the Patient Protection and Affordability Care Act, and subsequent amendments; and • compliance with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. We may become subject to legislation or regulation seeking to tax and/or regulate high-fat foods. If we fail to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, we may be subject to governmental or judicial fines or sanctions. In addition, our capital expenditures could increase due to remediation measures that may be required if we are found to be noncompliant with any of these laws or regulations. We are also subject to a Federal Trade Commission rule and to various state and foreign laws that govern the offer and sale of franchises. Additionally, these laws regulate various aspects of the franchise relationship, including terminations and the refusal to renew franchises. The failure to comply with these laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales, fines or other penalties or require us to make offers of rescission or restitution, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our current insurance coverage may not be adequate, insurance premiums for such coverage may increase and we may not be able to obtain insurance at acceptable rates, or at all. We have retention programs for workers’ compensation, general liability and owned and non-owned automobile liabilities. We are generally responsible for up to $1.0 million per occurrence under these retention programs for workers’ compensation and general liability. We are also generally responsible for between $500,000 and $3.0 million per occurrence under these retention programs for owned and non-owned automobile liabilities. Total insurance limits under these retention programs vary depending upon the period covered and range up to $110.0 million per occurrence for general liability and owned and non-owned automobile liabilities and up to the applicable statutory limits for workers’ compensation. These insurance policies may not be adequate to protect us from liabilities that we incur in our business. In addition, in the future our insurance premiums may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. Any such inadequacy of, or inability to obtain insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are not required to, and do not, specifically set aside funds for our retention programs. Our annual and quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors our share price may decline significantly. Our sales and operating results can vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among other things: • variations in the timing and volume of our sales and our franchisees’ sales; • the timing of expenditures in anticipation of future sales; • sales promotions by us and our competitors; • changes in competitive and economic conditions generally; • changes in the cost or availability of our ingredients or labor; and • foreign currency exposure. As a result, our operational performance may decline quickly and significantly in response to changes in order patterns or rapid decreases in demand for our products. We anticipate that fluctuations in operating results will continue in the future. 20 Table of Contents Our common stock price could be subject to significant fluctuations and/or may decline. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • variations in our operating results; • changes in revenues or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as sales promotions, acquisitions or restructurings; • actions by institutional and other stockholders; • changes in our dividend policy; • changes in the market values of public companies that operate in our business segments; • general market conditions; and • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general have recently experienced volatility that has sometimes been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. As a result of the 2007 Recapitalization, we hold a substantial amount of indebtedness and are highly leveraged. As of January 2, 2011, our consolidated long-term indebtedness was approximately $1.45 billion. We may also incur additional debt, which would not be prohibited under the terms of the securitized debt agreements. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our business and our shareholders. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt agreements; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt. In addition, the financial and other covenants we agreed to with our lenders may limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay dividends and engage in other transactions, and the leverage may cause potential lenders to be less willing to loan funds to us in the future. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of repayment of all of our indebtedness. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our significant debt service obligations, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make principal and interest payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, in the amounts projected or at all, or if future borrowings are not available to us under our variable funding notes in amounts sufficient to fund our other liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled principal and interest payments on our debt obligations in the future, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, delay capital expenditures or seek additional equity. If we are unable to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all or to effect any other action relating to our indebtedness on satisfactory terms or at all, our business may be harmed. 21 Table of Contents The terms of our securitized debt financing of certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries have restrictive terms and our failure to comply with any of these terms could put us in default, which would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. Unless and until we repay all outstanding borrowings under our securitized debt, we will remain subject to the restrictive terms of these borrowings. The securitized debt, under which certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries issued and guaranteed senior and subordinated fixed rate notes and variable funding senior revolving notes, contain a number of covenants, with the most significant financial covenant being a debt service coverage calculation. These covenants limit the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • sell assets; • alter the business we conduct; • engage in mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations; • declare dividends or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness or guarantees; • make loans and investments; • incur liens; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. The securitized debt also requires us to maintain a specified financial ratio at the end of each fiscal quarter. These restrictions could affect our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock. Our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not satisfy such a test. A breach of this covenant could result in a rapid amortization event or default under the securitized debt. If amounts owed under the securitized debt are accelerated because of a default under the securitized debt and we are unable to pay such amounts, the insurers have the right to assume control of substantially all of the securitized assets. In the event that one or both of the insurance companies that provide financial guaranties of our fixed and variable funding note payments were to become the subject of insolvency or similar proceedings, our lenders would not be required to fund our variable funding notes. Additionally, under the terms of our indenture governing our notes, an event of default would occur if: (i) one or both of the insurance companies were to become the subject of insolvency or similar proceedings and (ii) the related insurance policies were not continued or sold to a third party (who would assume one or both of the insurance companies’ obligations under the related policies), but instead were terminated or canceled as a result of those proceedings. In an event of default, all unpaid amounts under the fixed and variable rate notes could become immediately due and payable at the direction or consent of holders of a majority of the outstanding fixed rate notes or the remaining insurance company that is not the subject of insolvency or similar proceedings. Such acceleration of our debt could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity if we were unable to negotiate mutually acceptable terms with our lenders or if alternate funding were not available to us. During the first five years following issuance, the senior notes will accrue interest at a fixed rate of 5.261% per year and the subordinated notes will accrue interest at a fixed rate of 7.629%. If we are not able to exercise either of our two one-year extension options following the five-year interest-only period, our securitized debt will be subject to principal amortization and may also be subject to an increased interest rate if it is not repaid or refinanced. If we do exercise one or both extensions, we will be subject to an increased interest rate of at least 0.25%. If we are unable to refinance or repay amounts under the securitized debt prior to the expiration of the five-year interest-only term (six or seven-year interest-only term if we satisfy certain conditions and exercise one or both of our one-year extension elections), our cash flow would be directed to the repayment of the securitized debt and, other than a weekly servicing fee sufficient to cover minimal selling, general and administrative expenses, would not be available for operating our business. No assurance can be given that any refinancing or additional financing will be possible when needed or that we will be able to negotiate acceptable terms. In addition, our access to capital is affected by prevailing conditions in the financial and capital markets and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that market conditions will be favorable at the times that we require new or additional financing. The indenture governing the securitized debt will restrict the cash flow from the entities subject to the securitization to any of our other entities and upon the occurrence of certain events, cash flow would be further restricted. In the event that a rapid amortization event occurs under the indenture (including, without limitation, upon an event of default under the indenture or the failure to repay the securitized debt at the end of the five year interest-only period (or at the end of any extension period)), the funds available to us would be reduced or eliminated, which would in turn reduce our ability to operate or grow our business. 22 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 