Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may be due to a number of factors, including the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this filing. Some of the important factors that could cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter include: • the extent to which on demand software solutions maintain current and achieve broader market acceptance; • our ability to timely introduce enhancements to our existing solutions and new solutions; • our ability to increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers and retain existing customers; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • the variable nature of our sales and implementation cycles; • general economic, industry and market conditions in the rental housing industry that impact the financial condition of our current and potential customers; • the amount and timing of our investment in research and development activities; • technical difficulties, service interruptions, data or document losses or security breaches; • Internet usage trends among consumers, and the methodologies internet search engines utilized to direct those consumers to websites such as in our LeaseStar product family; • our ability to hire and retain qualified key personnel, including the rate of expansion of our sales force and IT department; • changes in the legal, regulatory or compliance environment related to the rental housing industry, including without limitation fair credit reporting, payment processing, privacy, utility billing, insurance, the Internet, e-commerce, licensing, HIPAA and HITECH; • the amount and timing of operating expenses and capital expenditures related to the expansion of our operations and infrastructure; • the timing of revenue and expenses related to recent and potential acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or technologies; • our ability to integrate acquisition operations in a cost-effective and timely manner; • litigation and settlement costs, including unforeseen costs; • public company reporting requirements; and • new accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting standards or practices, particularly any affecting the recognition of subscription revenue or accounting for mergers and acquisitions. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results or guidance that we provide may lead analysts to change their long-term model for valuing our common stock, cause us to face short-term liquidity issues, impact our ability to retain or attract key personnel or cause other unanticipated issues, all of which could cause our stock price to decline. As a result of the potential variations in our quarterly revenue and operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues and operating results may not be meaningful and the results of any one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. 16 Table of Contents We have a history of operating losses and may not maintain profitability in the future. We have not been consistently profitable on a quarterly or annual basis. Although we had net income for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we experienced net losses of $1.2 million, $3.2 million and $3.1 million in 2011, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Net income for 2009 included a discrete tax benefit of approximately $27.0 million as a result of our net deferred tax assets valuation allowance. As of December 31, 2011, our accumulated deficit was $91.0 million. While we have experienced significant growth over recent quarters, we may not be able to sustain or increase our growth or profitability in the future. We expect to make significant future expenditures related to the development and expansion of our business. As a result of increased general and administrative expenses due to the additional operational and reporting costs associated with being a public company, we will need to generate and sustain increased revenue to achieve future profitability expectations. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including the other risks and uncertainties described in this filing. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors that may result in losses in future periods. If these losses exceed our expectations or our growth expectations are not met in future periods, our financial performance will be affected adversely. If we are unable to manage the growth of our diverse and complex operations, our financial performance may suffer. The growth in the size, dispersed geographic locations, complexity and diversity of our business and the expansion of our product lines and customer base has placed, and our anticipated growth may continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. We increased our number of employees from 654 as of December 31, 2007 to 2,273 as of December 31, 2011. We increased our number of on demand customers from 2,199 as of December 31, 2007 to approximately 7,800 as of December 31, 2011. We increased the number of on demand product centers that we offer from 25 as of December 31, 2007 to 46 as of December 31, 2011. In addition, in the past, we have grown and expect to continue to grow through acquisitions. Our ability to effectively manage our anticipated future growth will depend on, among other things, the following: • successfully supporting and maintaining a broad range of solutions; • maintaining continuity in our senior management and key personnel; • attracting, retaining, training and motivating our employees, particularly technical, customer service and sales personnel; • enhancing our financial and accounting systems and controls; • enhancing our information technology infrastructure, processes and controls; and • managing expanded operations in geographically dispersed locations. If we do not manage the size, complexity and diverse nature of our business effectively, we could experience product performance issues, delayed software releases and longer response times for assisting our customers with implementation of our solutions and could lack adequate resources to support our customers on an ongoing basis, any of which could adversely affect our reputation in the market and our ability to generate revenue from new or existing customers. The nature of our platform is complex and highly integrated, and if we fail to successfully manage releases or integrate new solutions, it could harm our revenues, operating income and reputation. We manage a complex platform of solutions that consists of our property management systems, integrated software-enabled value-added services and web-based advertising and lease generation services. Many of our solutions include a large number of product centers that are highly integrated and require interoperability with other RealPage products, as well as products and services of third-party service providers. Additionally, we typically deploy new releases of the software underlying our on demand software solutions on a bi-weekly, monthly or quarterly schedule depending on the solution. Due to this complexity and the condensed development cycles under which we operate, we may experience errors in our software, corruption or loss of our data or unexpected performance issues from time to time. For example, our solutions may face interoperability difficulties with software operating systems or programs being used by our customers, or new releases, upgrades, fixes or the integration of acquired technologies may have unanticipated consequences on the operation and performance of our other solutions. If we encounter integration challenges or discover errors in our solutions late in our development cycle, it may cause us to delay our launch dates. Any major integration or interoperability issues or launch delays could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating income and reputation. 17 Table of Contents Our business depends substantially on customers renewing and expanding their subscriptions for our solutions and any increase in customer cancellations or decline in customer renewals or expansions would harm our future operating results. With the exception of some of our LeaseStar and Propertyware solutions, which are typically month-to-month, we generally license our solutions pursuant to customer agreements with a term of one year. Our customers have no obligation to renew these agreements after their term expires, or to renew these agreements at the same or higher annual contract value. In addition, under specific circumstances, our customers have the right to cancel their customer agreements before they expire, for example, in the event of an uncured breach by us, or in some circumstances, by giving 30 days’ notice or paying a cancellation fee. In addition, customers often purchase a higher level of professional services in the initial term than they do in renewal terms to ensure successful activation. As a result, our ability to grow is dependent in part on customers purchasing additional solutions or professional services after the initial term of their customer agreement. Though we maintain and analyze historical data with respect to rates of customer renewals, upgrades and expansions, those rates may not accurately predict future trends in customer renewals. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to, their level of satisfaction with our solutions, our pricing, our competitors’ pricing, reductions in our customers’ spending levels or reductions in the number of units managed by our customers. Additionally, we believe one of our competitors, Yardi, is able to exert significant coercive power over its large customer base because of the high switching costs its customers face and that it uses this coercive power to require its customers to sign agreements that prohibit the Yardi customers from using the products and services of competing property management software providers, including RealPage. We have filed federal claims to enjoin Yardi from this anticompetitive practice. That suit is described in Item 1 herein. If our customers cancel or amend their agreements with us during their term, do not renew their agreements, renew on less favorable terms or do not purchase additional solutions or professional services in renewal periods, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline and our profitability may be harmed. Additionally, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, some level of customer turnover as properties are sold and the new owners and managers of properties previously owned or managed by our customers do not continue to use our solutions. We cannot predict the amount of customer turnover we will experience in the future. However, we have experienced slightly higher rates of customer turnover with our recently acquired Propertyware property management system, primarily because it serves smaller properties than our OneSite property management system, and we may experience higher levels of customer turnover to the extent Propertyware grows as a percentage of our revenues. If we experience increased customer turnover, our financial performance and operating results could be adversely affected. We have also experienced, and expect to continue to experience, some number of consolidations of our customers with other parties. If one of our customers consolidates with a party who is not a customer, our customer may decide not to continue to use our solutions. In addition, if one of our customers is consolidated with another customer, the acquiring customer may have negotiated lower prices for our solutions or may use fewer of our solutions than the acquired customer. In each case, the consolidated entity may attempt to negotiate lower prices for using our solutions as a result of their increased size. These consolidations may cause us to lose customers or require us to reduce prices as a result of enhanced customer leverage, which could cause our financial performance and operating results to be adversely affected. Because we generally recognize subscription revenue over the term of the applicable customer agreement, a decline in subscription renewals or new service agreements may not be reflected immediately in our operating results. We generally recognize revenue from customers ratably over the terms of their customer agreements which, with the exception of our month-to-month advertising, lease generation and Propertyware agreements, are typically one year. As a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is deferred revenue from customer agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed customer agreements in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in our revenue or our results of operations until future periods. Accordingly, this revenue recognition model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. We may not be able to continue to add new customers and retain and increase sales to our existing customers, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our revenue growth is dependent on our ability to continually attract new customers while retaining and expanding our service offerings to existing customers. Growth in the demand for our solutions may be inhibited and we may be unable to sustain growth in our customer base for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to: • our failure to develop new or additional solutions: • our inability to market our solutions in a cost-effective manner to new customers or in new vertical or geographic markets; • our inability to expand our sales to existing customers; • the inability of our LeaseStar product family to grow traffic to its websites, resulting in lower levels of lead and lease/move-in traffic to customers; 18 Table of Contents • our inability to build and promote our brand; • perceived security, integrity, reliability, quality or compatibility problems with our solutions; and • Yardi’s interference with our existing and prospective customer relationships, including its coercive use of agreements requiring its locked-in customer base not to use our products and services. A substantial amount of our past revenue growth was derived from purchases of upgrades and additional solutions by existing customers. Our costs associated with increasing revenue from existing customers are generally lower than costs associated with generating revenue from new customers. Therefore, a reduction in the rate of revenue increase from our existing customers, even if offset by an increase in revenue from new customers, could reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we are not able to integrate past or future acquisitions successfully, our operating results and prospects could be harmed. We have acquired new technology and domain expertise through multiple acquisitions, including our most recent acquisitions of Compliance Depot in May 2011, SeniorLiving.net in July 2011, Multifamily Technology Solutions, Inc. in August 2011 and Vigilan, Inc. in January 2012. We expect to continue making acquisitions. The success of our future acquisition strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate acquisitions. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and any acquisitions we complete may not be successful. Any acquisitions we pursue would involve numerous risks, including the following: • difficulties in integrating and managing the operations and technologies of the companies we acquire; • diversion of our management’s attention from normal daily operations of our business; • our inability to maintain the key employees, the key business relationships and the reputations of the businesses we acquire; • the acquisitions may generate insufficient revenue to offset our increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • our responsibility for the liabilities of the businesses we acquire, including, without limitation, liabilities arising out of their failure to maintain effective data security, data integrity, disaster recovery and privacy controls prior to the acquisition; • difficulties in complying with new regulatory standards to which we were not previously subject; • delays in our ability to implement internal standards, controls, procedures and policies in the businesses we acquire; and • adverse effects of acquisition activity on the key performance indicators we use to monitor our performance as a business. Our current acquisition strategy includes the acquisition of companies that offer property management systems that may not interoperate with our software-enabled value-added services. In order to integrate and fully realize the benefits of such acquisitions, we expect to build application interfaces that enable such customers to use a wide range of our solutions while they continue to use their legacy management systems. In addition, over time we expect to migrate the acquired company’s customers to our on demand property management systems to retain them as customers and to be in a position to offer them our solutions on a cost-effective basis. These efforts may be unsuccessful or entail costs that result in losses or reduced profitability. We may be unable to secure the equity or debt funding necessary to finance future acquisitions on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders will likely experience ownership dilution, and if we finance future acquisitions with debt funding, we will incur interest expense and may have to comply with additional financing covenants or secure that debt obligation with our assets. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire and sell enhancements and new solutions, our revenue growth will be harmed and we may not be able to meet profitability expectations. The industry in which we operate is characterized by rapidly changing customer requirements, technological developments and evolving industry standards. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers will depend in large part on our ability to successfully develop, bring to market and sell enhancements to our existing solutions and new solutions that effectively respond to the rapid changes in our industry. Any enhancements or new solutions that we develop or acquire may not be introduced to the market in a timely or cost-effective manner and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate the revenue required to offset the operating expenses and capital expenditures related to development or acquisition. If we are unable to timely develop or acquire and sell enhancements and new solutions that keep pace with the rapid changes in our industry, our revenue will not grow as expected and we may not be able to maintain or meet profitability expectations. 19 Table of Contents We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of our solutions and failure to maintain demand for these solutions or diversify our revenue base through increasing demand for our other solutions could negatively affect our operating results. Historically, a majority of our revenue was derived from sales of our OneSite property management system and our LeasingDesk software-enabled value-added service. If we are unable to develop enhancements to these solutions to maintain demand for these solutions or to diversify our revenue base by increasing demand for our other solutions, our operating results could be negatively impacted. We use a small number of data centers to deliver our solutions. Any disruption of service at our facilities could interrupt or delay our customers’ access to our solutions, which could harm our operating results. The ability of our customers to access our service is critical to our business. We currently serve a majority of our customers from a primary data center located in Carrollton, Texas. We also maintain a secondary data center in downtown Dallas, Texas, approximately 20 miles from our primary data center. Services of our most recent acquisitions are provided from data centers located in San Francisco, California, South Carolina, Texas, Winnipeg, Canada, Milwaukee, Wisconsin and Atlanta, Georgia, many of which are operated by third party data vendors. We plan to maintain a data center in San Francisco for LeaseStar and certain other solutions and intend to migrate all other data services to our primary and secondary data centers in Carrollton and Dallas. Until this migration is complete, we have no assurances that the policies and procedures in place at our Carrollton and Dallas data centers will be followed at data centers operated by third party vendors. Any event resulting in extended interruption or delay in our customers’ access to our services or their data could harm our operating results. There can be no certainty that the measures we have taken to eliminate single points of failure in the primary and secondary data centers will be effective to prevent or minimize interruptions to our operations. Our facilities are vulnerable to interruption or damage from a number of sources, many of which are beyond our control, including, without limitation: • extended power loss; • telecommunications failures from multiple telecommunication or other internet service providers; • natural disaster or an act of terrorism; • software and hardware errors, or failures in our own systems or in other systems; • network environment disruptions such as computer viruses, hacking and similar problems in our own systems and in other systems; • theft and vandalism of equipment; • actions or events arising from human error; and • actions or events caused by or related to third parties. The occurrence of an extended interruption of services at one or more of our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Since January 1, 2007, we have experienced two extended service interruptions lasting more than eight hours caused by equipment and hardware failures. Our service level agreements require us to refund a prorated portion of the access fee if we fail to satisfy our service level commitments related to availability. Refunds for breach of this service level commitment have resulted in immaterial payments to customers in the past. An extended service outage could result in refunds to our customers and harm our customer relationships. In addition, under our some of our advertising and lease generation agreements, we are generally paid for performance and would be unable to perform services under those agreements in the event of a service interruption. We attempt to mitigate these risks at our data centers through various business continuity efforts, including redundant infrastructure, 24 x 7 x 365 system activity monitoring, backup and recovery procedures, use of a secure off-site storage facility for backup media, separate test systems and change management and system security measures, but our precautions may not protect against all potential problems. Our secondary data center is equipped with physical space, power, storage and networking infrastructure and Internet connectivity to support the solutions we provide in the event of the interruption of services at our primary data center. Even with this secondary data center, however, our operations would be interrupted during the transition process should our primary data center experience a failure. Moreover, both our primary and secondary data centers are located in the greater metropolitan Dallas area. As a result, any regional disaster could affect both data centers and result in a material disruption of our services. 20 Table of Contents For customers who specifically pay for accelerated disaster recovery services, we replicate their data from our primary data center to our secondary data center with the necessary stand-by servers and disk storage available to provide services within two hours of a disaster. This process is currently audited by some of our customers who pay for this service on an annual basis. For customers who do not pay for such services, our current service level agreements with our customers require that we provide disaster recovery within 72 hours. Disruptions at our data centers could cause disruptions in our services and data or document loss or corruption. This could damage our reputation, cause us to issue credits to customers, subject us to potential liability or costs related to defending against claims or cause customers to terminate or elect not to renew their agreements, any of which could negatively impact our revenues. We provide service level commitments to our customers, and our failure to meet the stated service levels could significantly harm our revenue and our reputation. Our customer agreements provide that we maintain certain service level commitments to our customers relating primarily to product functionality, network uptime, critical infrastructure availability and hardware replacement. For example, our service level agreements generally require that our solutions are available 98% of the time during coverage hours (normally 6:00 a.m. though 10:00 p.m. Central time daily) 365 days per year. If we are unable to meet the stated service level commitments, we may be contractually obligated to provide customers with refunds or credits. Additionally, if we fail to meet our service level commitments a specified number of times within a given time frame or for a specified duration, our customers may terminate their agreement with us or extend the term of their agreement at no additional fee. As a result, a failure to deliver services for a relatively short duration could cause us to issue credits or refunds to a large number of affected customers or result in the loss of customers. In addition, we cannot assure you that our customers will accept these credits, refunds, termination or extension rights in lieu of other legal remedies that may be available to them. Our failure to meet our commitments could also result in substantial customer dissatisfaction or loss. Because of the loss of future revenues through the issuance of credits or the loss of customers or other potential liabilities, our revenue could be significantly impacted if we cannot meet our service level commitments to our customers. We face intense competitive pressures and our failure to compete successfully could harm our operating results. The market for many of our solutions is intensely competitive, fragmented and rapidly changing. Some of these markets have relatively low barriers to entry. With the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. Increased competition generally could result in pricing pressures, reduced sales and reduced margins. Often we compete to sell our solutions against existing systems that our potential customers have already made significant expenditures to install. Our competitors vary depending on our product and service. In the market for property management software, or multi-tenant enterprise resource planning (“ERP”), we face substantial competitive pressure from Yardi and its Voyager products. Because of Yardi’s large installed customer base and the high switching costs they face, many customers are essentially locked-in to Voyager. We also face competition from AMSI Property Management (owned by Infor Global Solutions, Inc.) and MRI Software LLC. In the single-family market, our ERP systems compete primarily with AppFolio, Inc., DIY Real Estate Solutions (recently acquired by Yardi Systems, Inc.), Buildium, LLC, Rent Manager (owned by London Computer Systems, Inc.) and Property Boss Solutions, LLC. In the market for vertically-integrated cloud computing for multifamily real estate owners and property managers (“the vertical cloud market”), our only substantial competition is from Yardi. Our ability to compete in the vertical cloud market is compromised by anticompetitive restrictions imposed by Yardi on its Voyager customers which prevent Voyager customers from using the vertical cloud product of their choice. We offer a number of software-enabled value-added services that compete with a disparate and large group of competitors. In the applicant screening market, our principal competitors are ChoicePoint Inc. (a subsidiary of Reed Elsevier Group plc), CoreLogic, Inc. (formerly First Advantage Corporation, an affiliate of The First American Corporation), TransUnion Rental Screening Solutions, Inc. (a subsidiary of TransUnion LLC), Yardi Systems, Inc. (following its recent acquisition of RentGrow Inc., an applicant screening provider), On-Site.com and many other smaller regional and local screening companies. In the insurance market, our principal competitors are Assurant, Inc., Bader Company, CoreLogic, Inc. and a number of national insurance underwriters (including GEICO Corporation, The Allstate Corporation, State Farm Fire and Casualty Company, Farmers Insurance Exchange, Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company and United Services Automobile Association) that market renters insurance. There are many smaller screening and insurance providers in the risk mitigation area that we encounter less frequently, but they nevertheless present a competitive presence in the market. 21 Table of Contents In the customer relationship management, or CRM, market, we compete with providers of contact center and call tracking services, including Call Source Inc., Yardi Systems, Inc. (which recently announced its intention to build a contact center) and numerous regional and local contact centers. In addition, we compete with lead tracking solution providers, including Call Source Inc., Lead Tracking Solutions (a division of O.C. Concepts, Inc.) and Who’s Calling, Inc. In addition, we compete with content syndication providers Realty DataTrust Corporation (acquired by MRI Software, LLC), RentSentinel.com (owned by Yield Technologies, Inc.), and rentbits.com, Inc. Finally, we compete with companies providing web portal services, including Apartments24-7.com, Inc., Ellipse Communications, Inc., Property Solutions International, Inc., Spherexx.com and Yardi Systems, Inc. Certain Internet listing services also offer websites for their customers, usually as a free value add to their listing service. In the marketing services market, we compete with G5 Search Marketing, Inc., Spherexx LLC, ReachLocal, Inc., Property Solutions International, Inc. and Yodle, Inc. In the Internet listing service market, we compete with ForRent (a division of Dominium Enterprises), Apartment Guide (a division of Primedia Inc.), Rent.com (a division of eBay Inc.), Apartments.com (a division of Classified Ventures, LLC, Apartment Finder (a division of Network Communications, Inc.), Zillow, Inc. and Move, Inc. In the Senior Living market, we compete against A Place for Mom, Inc., SeniorsForLiving, Inc., Care.com, Inc., Caring, Inc., Care Patrol Franchise Systems, LLC, Aging with Grace, LLC and SeniorHomes.com (owned by Moseo, Corp.). In the utility billing market, we compete at a national level with American Utility Management, Inc., Conservice, LLC, ista North America, Inc., NWP Services Corporation and Yardi Systems, Inc. (following its recent acquisition of Energy Billing Systems, Inc.). Many other smaller utility billing companies compete for smaller rental properties or in regional areas. In the revenue management market, we compete with The Rainmaker Group, Inc. and Yardi Systems, Inc. In the spend management market, we compete with Site Stuff, Inc. (owned by Yardi Systems, Inc.), AvidXchange, Inc., Nexus Systems, Inc., Ariba, Inc. and Oracle Corporation. In the payment processing market, we compete with Chase Paymentech Solutions, LLC (a subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase & Co.), First Data Corporation, Fiserv, Inc., MoneyGram International, Inc., NWP Services Corporation, Property Solutions International, Inc., RentPayment.com (a subsidiary of Yapstone, Inc.), Yardi Systems, Inc. and a number of national banking institutions. In addition, many of our existing or potential customers have developed or may develop their own solutions that may be competitive with our solutions. We also may face competition for potential acquisition targets from our competitors who are seeking to expand their offerings. With respect to all of our competitors, we compete based on a number of factors, including total cost of ownership, level of integration with property management systems, ease of implementation, product functionality and scope, performance, security, scalability and reliability of service, brand and reputation, sales and marketing capabilities and financial resources. Some of our existing competitors and new market entrants may enjoy substantial competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, larger installed customer bases and larger sales and marketing budgets, as well as greater financial, technical and other resources. In addition, any number of our existing competitors or new market entrants could combine or consolidate to become a more formidable competitor with greater resources. As a result of such competitive advantages, our existing and future competitors may be able to: • develop superior products or services, gain greater market acceptance and expand their offerings more efficiently or more rapidly; • adapt to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements more quickly; • take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily; • adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the promotion of their brand and marketing and sales of their products and services; and • devote greater resources to the research and development of their products and services. If we are not able to compete effectively, our operating results will be harmed. 22 Table of Contents We integrate our software-enabled value-added services with competitive ERP applications for some of our customers. Our application infrastructure, marketed to our customers as The RealPage Cloud, is based on an open architecture that enables third-party applications to access and interface with applications hosted in The RealPage Cloud through our RealPage Exchange platform. Likewise, through this platform our RealPage Cloud services are able to access and interface with other third-party applications, including third-party property management systems. We also provide services to assist in the implementation, training, support and hosting with respect to the integration of some of our competitors’ applications with our solutions. We sometimes rely on the cooperation of our competitors to implement solutions for our customers. However, frequently our reliance on the cooperation of our competitors can result in delays in integration. There is no assurance that our competitors, even if contractually obligated to do so, will continue to cooperate with us or will not prospectively alter their obligations to do so. We also occasionally develop interfaces between our software-enabled value-added services and competitor ERP systems without their cooperation or consent. There is no assurance that our competitors will not alter their applications in ways that inhibit integration or assert that their intellectual property rights restrict our ability to integrate our solutions with their applications. On January 24, 2011, Yardi Systems, Inc. filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California against RealPage, Inc. and DC Consulting, Inc. Yardi filed a First Amended Complaint on August 12, 2011. The lawsuit alleges claims for relief for violation of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, violation of the California Comprehensive Data Access and Fraud Act, violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, copyright infringement, trade secret misappropriation, unfair competition, and inducement of breach of contract. Yardi seeks injunctive relief, punitive damages, recovery of all profits attributable to Defendants’ allegedly wrongful acts and infringements, statutory damages, exemplary damages, prejudgment interest, and attorneys’ fees and costs. The First Amended Complaint alleges, among other things, that RealPage took Yardi employee, client and independent consultant credentials and used them to access Yardi’s computer system and steal Yardi’s trade secrets and copyrighted software, related support documentation, price lists and other proprietary information. In addition, the First Amended Complaint alleges that RealPage improperly obtained administrative-level access to Yardi’s software and copied it onto RealPage’s servers for its own competitive purposes, used these unauthorized software copies to discover the allegedly proprietary programming, functionality and feature set of Yardi’s software, to compete unfairly against Yardi, to create unauthorized derivative works from Yardi’s software, and to enhance RealPage’s own products and services. Yardi alleges that in doing so, and in offering to indemnify our customers, RealPage induced Cloud customers to violate their confidentiality and other agreements with Yardi. On March 28, 2011, RealPage filed an answer to Yardi’s Complaint, and on September 12, 2011, RealPage answered the First Amended Complaint. RealPage has also filed counterclaims against Yardi, first in connection with its March 28 answer and then in First Amended Counterclaims filed on May 18, 2011. On September 2, 2011, following the Court’s order granting in part and denying in part Yardi’s motion to dismiss certain of RealPage’s causes of action without prejudice, RealPage filed Second Amended Counterclaims. RealPage’s counterclaims allege that Yardi and its agents wrongfully obtained and used our trade secrets and engaged in anti-competitive behavior with respect to certain of our clients. RealPage’s counterclaims seek relief for misappropriation of trade secrets, Sherman Act (antitrust) violations and California Cartwright Act violations, intentional interference with contract, intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, and violation of California’s unfair competition statute. RealPage seeks damages, punitive damages, injunctive relief and all profits, gains and advantages that Yardi received as a result of its wrongful conduct along with attorneys’ fees and costs. Yardi filed a Motion to Dismiss RealPage’s Second Amended Counterclaims on September 30, 2011. On February 13, 2012, the Court denied Yardi’s motion with respect to all claims except for a portion of one of our claims for intentional interference with contract, as to which dismissal was granted. Accordingly, RealPage will move forward with its claims against Yardi. We currently expect trial in this case to be scheduled for late September 2012. It is not possible to predict the outcome of this case, but we intend to defend this case and pursue our counterclaims vigorously. However, even if we were successful in defending against Yardi’s claims or in prevailing on our counterclaims, the proceedings could result in significant costs and divert our management’s attention. Prior to filing this lawsuit, Yardi Systems, Inc. contacted us and certain of our customers and expressed concerns about our hosting competitor applications in The RealPage Cloud and our performance of certain consulting services. We believe that we are lawfully hosting and accessing Yardi’s applications in The RealPage Cloud for purposes authorized by our customers and within our customers’ contractual rights. However, if Yardi or other competitors do not continue to cooperate with us, alter their applications in ways that inhibit or restrict the integration of our solutions or assert that their intellectual property rights restrict our ability to integrate our solutions with their applications and we are not able to find alternative ways to integrate our solutions with our competitors’ applications, our business would be harmed. Yardi has also expressed its concern that we may misappropriate its intellectual property by hosting its applications for our mutual customers in The RealPage Cloud. We face competition to attract consumers to our LeaseStar product websites and mobile applications, which could impair our ability to continue to grow the number of users who use our websites and mobile applications, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The success of our LeaseStar product family depends in part on our ability to continue to attract additional consumers to our websites and mobile applications. Our existing and potential competitors include companies that could devote greater technical and other resources than we have available, have a more accelerated time frame for deployment and leverage their existing user bases and proprietary technologies to provide products and services that consumers might view as superior to our offerings. Any of our future or existing competitors may introduce different solutions that attract consumers or provide solutions similar to our own but with better branding or marketing resources. If we are unable to continue to grow the number of consumers who use our website and mobile applications, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. 23 Table of Contents We may be unable to compete successfully against our existing or future competitors in attracting advertisers, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In our LeaseStar product family, we compete to attract advertisers with media sites, including websites dedicated to providing real estate listings and other rental housing related services to real estate professionals and consumers, and major Internet portals, general search engines and social media sites, as well as other online companies. We also compete for a share of advertisers’ overall marketing budgets with traditional media such as television, magazines, newspapers and home/apartment guide publications, particularly with respect to advertising dollars spent at the local level by real estate professionals to advertise their qualifications and listings. Large companies with significant brand recognition have large numbers of direct sales personnel and substantial proprietary advertising inventory and web traffic, which may provide a competitive advantage. To compete successfully for advertisers against future and existing competitors, we must continue to invest resources in developing our advertising platform and proving the effectiveness and relevance of our advertising products and services. Pressure from competitors seeking to acquire a greater share of our advertisers’ overall marketing budget could adversely affect our pricing and margins, lower our revenue, and increase our research and development and marketing expenses. If we are unable to compete successfully against our existing or future competitors, our business, financial condition or results of operations would be harmed. Variability in our sales and activation cycles could result in fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. The sales and activation cycles for our solutions, from initial contact with a prospective customer to contract execution and activation, vary widely by customer and solution. We do not recognize revenue until the solution is activated. While most of our activations follow a set of standard procedures, a customer’s priorities may delay activation and our ability to recognize revenue, which could result in fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Many of our customers are price sensitive, and if market dynamics require us to change our pricing model or reduce prices, our operating results will be harmed. Many of our existing and potential customers are price sensitive, and recent adverse global economic conditions have contributed to increased price sensitivity in the multi-family housing market and the other markets that we serve. As market dynamics change, or as new and existing competitors introduce more competitive pricing or pricing models, we may be unable to renew our agreements with existing customers or customers of the businesses we acquire or attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing model as previously used. As a result, it is possible that we may be required to change our pricing model, offer price incentives or reduce our prices, which could harm our revenue, profitability and operating results. If we do not effectively expand and train our sales force, we may be unable to add new customers or increase sales to our existing customers and our business will be harmed. We continue to be substantially dependent on our sales force to obtain new customers and to sell additional solutions to our existing customers. We believe that there is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth. New hires require significant training and, in most cases, take significant time before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we do business or plan to do business. If we are unable to hire and train sufficient numbers of effective sales personnel, or the sales personnel are not successful in obtaining new customers or increasing sales to our existing customer base, our business will be harmed. Material defects or errors in the software we use to deliver our solutions could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our solutions. The software applications underlying our solutions are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects in the software applications underlying our solutions and new errors in our existing solutions may be detected in the future. Any errors or defects that cause performance problems or service interruptions could result in: • a reduction in new sales or subscription renewal rates; • unexpected sales credits or refunds to our customers, loss of customers and other potential liabilities; 24 Table of Contents • delays in customer payments, increasing our collection reserve and collection cycle; • diversion of development resources and associated costs; • harm to our reputation and brand; and • unanticipated litigation costs. Additionally, the costs incurred in correcting defects or errors could be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. Failure to effectively manage the development of our solutions and data processing efforts outside the United States could harm our business. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to process high volumes of customer data and enhance existing solutions and develop new solutions rapidly and cost effectively. We currently maintain an office in Hyderabad, India where we employ development and data processing personnel. We recently opened an office in Manila, Philippines. We believe that performing these activities in Hyderabad and Manila increases the efficiency and decreases the costs of our development and data processing efforts. However, managing and staffing international operations requires management’s attention and financial resources. The level of cost-savings achieved by our international operations may not exceed the amount of investment and additional resources required to manage and operate these international operations. Additionally, if we experience problems with our workforce or facilities in Hyderabad or Manila, our business could be harmed due to delays in product release schedules or data processing services. We rely on third-party technologies and services that may be difficult to replace or that could cause errors, failures or disruptions of our service, any of which could harm our business. We rely on a number of third-party providers, including, but not limited to, computer hardware and software vendors and database providers, to deliver our solutions. We currently utilize equipment, software and services from Akami Inc., Avaya Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Compellent Technologies, Inc., Dell Inc., EMC Corporation, Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation and salesforce.com, inc., as well as many other smaller providers. Our OneSite Accounting service relies on a SaaS-based accounting system developed and maintained by a third-party service provider. We host this application in our data centers and provide supplemental development resources to extend this accounting system to meet the unique requirements of the rental housing industry. Our shared cloud portfolio reporting service utilizes software licensed from IBM. We expect to utilize additional service providers as we expand our platform. Although the third-party technologies and services that we currently require are commercially available, such technologies and services may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any of these technologies or services could result in delays in the provisioning of our solutions until alternative technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated, and such delays could harm our business. It also may be time consuming and costly to enter into new relationships. Additionally, any errors or defects in the third-party technologies we utilize or delays or interruptions in the third-party services we rely on could result in errors, failures or disruptions of our services, which also could harm our business. We depend upon third-party service providers for important payment processing functions. If these third-party service providers do not fulfill their contractual obligations or choose to discontinue their services, our business and operations could be disrupted and our operating results would be harmed. We rely on several large payment processing organizations to enable us to provide payment processing services to our customers, including electronic funds transfers, or EFT, check services, bank card authorization, data capture, settlement and merchant accounting services and access to various reporting tools. These organizations include Bank of America Merchant Services, Paymentech, LLC, Jack Henry & Associates, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo, N.A. We also rely on third-party hardware manufacturers to manufacture the check scanning hardware our customers utilize to process transactions. Some of these organizations and service providers are competitors who also directly or indirectly sell payment processing services to customers in competition with us. With respect to these organizations and service providers, we have significantly less control over the systems and processes than if we were to maintain and operate them ourselves. In some cases, functions necessary to our business are performed on proprietary third-party systems and software to which we have no access. We also generally do not have long-term contracts with these organizations and service providers. Accordingly, the failure of these organizations and service providers to renew their contracts with us or fulfill their contractual obligations and perform satisfactorily could result in significant disruptions to our operations and adversely affect operating results. In addition, businesses that we have acquired, or may acquire in the future, typically rely on other payment processing service providers. We may encounter difficulty converting payment processing services from these service providers to our payment processing platform. If we are required to find an alternative source for performing these functions, we may have to expend significant money, time and other resources to develop or obtain an alternative, and if developing or obtaining an alternative is not accomplished in a timely manner and without significant disruption to our business, we may be unable to fulfill our responsibilities to customers or meet their expectations, with the attendant potential for liability claims, damage to our reputation, loss of ability to attract or maintain customers and reduction of our revenue or profits. 25 Table of Contents We face a number of risks in our payment processing business that could result in a reduction in our revenues and profits. In connection with our electronic payment processing services, we process resident payments and subsequently submit these resident payments to our customers after varying clearing times established by RealPage. These payments are settled through our sponsoring clearing bank, and in the case of EFT, our Originating Depository Financial Institution, or ODFI. Currently, we rely on Wells Fargo, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as our sponsoring clearing banks. In the future, we expect to enter into similar sponsoring clearing bank relationships with one or more other national banking institutions. The resident payments that we process for our customers at our sponsoring clearing bank are identified in our consolidated balance sheets as restricted cash and the corresponding liability for these resident payments is identified as customer deposits. Our electronic payment processing business and related maintenance of custodial accounts subjects us to a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • liability for customer costs related to disputed or fraudulent transactions if those costs exceed the amount of the customer reserves we have during the clearing period or after resident payments have been settled to our customers; • electronic processing limits on the amount of custodial balances that any single ODFI will underwrite; • reliance on clearing bank sponsors, card payment processors and other service payment provider partners to process electronic transactions; • failure by us or our bank sponsors to adhere to applicable laws and regulatory requirements or the standards of the electronic payments rules and regulations; • incidences of fraud, a security breach or our failure to comply with required external audit standards; and • our inability to increase our fees at times when electronic payment partners or associations increase their transaction processing fees. If any of these risks related to our electronic payment processing business were to occur, our business or financial results could be negatively affected. Additionally, with respect to the processing of EFTs, we are exposed to financial risk. EFTs between a resident and our customer may be returned for various reasons such as NSF, insufficient funds, stop payment etc. These returns are charged back to the customer by us. However, if we or our sponsoring clearing banks are unable to collect such amounts from the customer’s account or if the customer refuses or is unable to reimburse us for the chargeback, we bear the risk of loss for the amount of the transfer. While we have not experienced material losses resulting from chargebacks in the past, there can be no assurance that we will not experience significant losses from chargebacks in the future. Any increase in chargebacks not paid by our customers may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to data that we store or transmit, we may incur significant liabilities, our solutions may be perceived as not being secure and customers may curtail or stop using our solutions. The solutions we provide involve the collection, storage and transmission of confidential personal and proprietary information regarding our customers and our customers’ current and prospective residents and business partners. Specifically, we collect, store and transmit a variety of customer data such as demographic information and payment histories of our customers’ prospective and current residents and business partners. Additionally, we collect and transmit sensitive financial data such as credit card and bank account information. Treatment of certain types of data, such as personally identifiable information, protected health information and sensitive financial data may be subject to federal of state regulations of heightened privacy and security requirements. If our data security or data integrity measures are breached or otherwise fail or prove to be inadequate for any reason, as a result of third-party actions or our employees’ or contractors’ errors or malfeasance or otherwise, and unauthorized persons obtains access to this information, or the data is otherwise compromised, we could incur significant liability to our customers and to their prospective or current residents or business partners, significant costs associated with internal regulatory investigations and latigation, or significant fines and sanctions by payment processing networks or governmental authorities. Any of these events or circumstances could result in damage to our reputation and material harm to our business. We also rely upon our customers as users of our system to promote security of the system and the data within it, such as administration of customer-side access credentialing and control of customer-side display of data. On occasion, our customers have failed to perform these activities in such a manner as to prevent unauthorized access to data. To date, these breaches have not resulted in claims against us or in material harm to our business, but we cannot be certain that the failure of our customers in future periods to perform these activities will not result in claims against us, which could expose us to potential litigation, damage to our reputation and material harm to our business. 26 Table of Contents There can be no certainty that the measures we have taken to protect the privacy and integrity of our customers’ and their current or prospective residents’ and business partners’ data are adequate to prevent or remedy unauthorized access to our system. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or to sabotage, systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. Experienced computer programmers seeking to intrude or cause harm, or hackers, may attempt to penetrate our service infrastructure from time to time. A hacker who is able to penetrate our service infrastructure could misappropriate proprietary or confidential information or cause interruptions in our services. We might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against, or to remedy, problems caused by hackers, and we may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to penetrate our service infrastructure. In addition to purposeful breaches, inadvertent actions or the transmission of computer viruses could expose us to security risks. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs or if our customers and potential customers perceive vulnerabilities, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, we could lose sales and customers and our business could be materially harmed. If we are unable to cost-effectively scale or adapt our existing architecture to accommodate increased traffic, technological advances or changing customer requirements, our operating results could be harmed. As we continue to increase our customer base, the number of users accessing our on demand software solutions over the Internet will continue to increase. Increased traffic could result in slow access speeds and response times. Since our customer agreements typically include service availability commitments, slow speeds or our failure to accommodate increased traffic could result in breaches of our customer agreements. In addition, the market for our solutions is characterized by rapid technological advances and changes in customer requirements. In order to accommodate increased traffic and respond to technological advances and evolving customer requirements, we expect that we will be required to make future investments in our network architecture. If we do not implement future upgrades to our network architecture cost-effectively, or if we experience prolonged delays or unforeseen difficulties in connection with upgrading our network architecture, our service quality may suffer and our operating results could be harmed. Because certain solutions we provide depend on access to customer data, decreased access to this data or the failure to comply with applicable privacy laws and regulations or address privacy concerns applicable to such data could harm our business. Certain of our solutions depend on our continued access to our customers’ data regarding their prospective and current residents, including data compiled by other third-party service providers who collect and store data on behalf of our customers. Federal and state governments and agencies have adopted, or are considering adopting, laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of such data. Any decrease in the availability of such data from our customers, or other third parties that collect and store such data on behalf of our customers, and the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, applicable legislative and regulatory initiatives may limit our ability to collect, aggregate or use this data. Any limitations on our ability to collect, aggregate or use such data could reduce demand for certain of our solutions. Additionally, any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy laws, regulations and policies, could result in liability to us or damage to our reputation and could inhibit sales and market acceptance of our solutions and harm our business. The market for on demand software solutions in the rental housing industry is new and continues to develop, and if it does not develop further or develops more slowly than we expect, our business will be harmed. The market for on demand SaaS software solutions in the rental housing industry delivered via the Internet through a web browser is rapidly growing but still relatively immature compared to the market for traditional on premise software installed on a customer’s local personal computer or server. It is uncertain whether the on demand delivery model will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance, making our business and future prospects difficult to evaluate and predict. While our existing customer base has widely accepted this new model, our future success will depend, to a large extent, on the willingness of our potential customers to choose on demand software solutions for business processes that they view as critical. Many of our potential customers have invested substantial effort and financial resources to integrate traditional enterprise software into their businesses and may be reluctant or unwilling to switch to on demand software solutions. Some businesses may be reluctant or unwilling to use on demand software solutions because they have concerns regarding the risks associated with security capabilities, reliability and availability, among other things, of the on demand delivery model. Additionally, we believe that one of our competitors, Yardi, is able to exert significant coercive power over its large customer base because of the high switching costs its customers face and that it uses this coercive power to require its customers to sign agreements that prohibit the Yardi customers from using the products and services of competing property management software providers, including RealPage. We have filed suit to enjoin Yardi from this anticompetitive practice. That suit is described in Item 1 herein. Finally, if potential customers do not consider on demand software solutions to be beneficial, then the market for these solutions may not further develop, or it may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would adversely affect our operating results. 27 Table of Contents If use of the Internet and mobile technology, particularly with respect to online rental housing products and services, does not continue to increase as rapidly as we anticipate, our business could be harmed. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued use of the Internet and mobile technology as effective media of business and communication by our customers and consumers. Internet and mobile technology use may not continue to develop at historical rates, and consumers may not continue to use the Internet or mobile technology as media for information exchange. Further, these media may not be accepted as viable long-term outlets for rental housing information for a number of reasons, including actual or perceived lack of security of information and possible disruptions of service or connectivity. If consumers begin to access rental housing information through other media and we fail to innovate, our business may be negatively impacted. Economic trends that affect the rental housing market may have a negative effect on our business. Our customers include a range of organizations whose success is intrinsically linked to the rental housing market. Economic trends that negatively affect the rental housing market may adversely affect our business. The recent downturn in the global economy has caused volatility in the real estate markets, generally, including the rental housing market, and increases in the rates of mortgage defaults and bankruptcy. Continued instability or downturns affecting the rental housing market may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations by: • reducing the number of occupied sites and units on which we earn revenue; • preventing our customers from expanding their businesses and managing new properties; • causing our customers to reduce spending on our solutions; • subjecting us to increased pricing pressure in order to add new customers and retain existing customers; • causing our customers to switch to lower-priced solutions provided by our competitors or internally developed solutions; • delaying or preventing our collection of outstanding accounts receivable; and • causing payment processing losses related to an increase in customer insolvency. In addition, economic trends that reduce the frequency of renter turnover or the quantity of new renters may reduce the number of rental transactions completed by our customers and may, as a result, reduce demand for our rental transaction specific services. If customers and other advertisers reduce or end their advertising spending on our LeaseStar products and we are unable to attract new advertisers, our business would be harmed. Some components of our LeaseStar product family depend on advertising generated through sales to real estate agents and brokerages, property owners and other advertisers relevant to rental housing. Our ability to attract and retain advertisers, and ultimately to generate advertising revenue, depends on a number of factors, including: • increasing the number of consumers of our LeaseStar products and services; • competing effectively for advertising dollars with other online media companies; • continuing to develop our advertising products and services; • keeping pace with changes in technology and with our competitors; and • offering an attractive return on investment to our advertiser customers for their advertising spending with us. Reductions in lead generation could have a negative effect on our operating results. We could face reductions in leads generated for our clients if third party originators of such leads were to elect to suspend sending leads to us. Reductions in leads generated could reduce the value of our lead generation services, make it difficult for us to add new lead generation services customers, retain existing lead generation services customers and maintain or increase sales levels to our existing lead generation services customers and could adversely affect our operating results. 28 Table of Contents We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges or opportunities, including the need to develop new solutions or enhance our existing solutions, enhance our operating infrastructure or acquire businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Debt financing secured by us in the future could involve additional restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges or opportunities could be significantly limited. Our debt obligations contain restrictions that impact our business and expose us to risks that could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. In December 2011, we entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with Wells Fargo Capital Finance, Comerica Bank and the other lenders party thereto (“Restated Agreement”) to amend and restate our original credit facility. The Restated Agreement provides for a secured revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $150.0 million, subject to a borrowing formula, with a sublimit of $10.0 million for the issuance of letters of credit on our behalf. The Restated Agreement converted our outstanding term loan under the original agreement into revolving loans. As of December 31, 2011, $50.3 million was outstanding under our revolving line of credit and $10.0 million was available for the issuance of letters of credit. Our interest expense in twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 for the credit facility was approximately $2.3 million, $2.7 million and $0.9 million, respectively. Advances under credit facility may be voluntarily prepaid, and must be prepaid with the proceeds of certain dispositions, extraordinary receipts and indebtedness and in full upon a change in control. All of our obligations under the loan facility are secured by substantially all of our property. All of our existing and future domestic subsidiaries are required to guaranty our obligations under the credit facility, other than certain immaterial subsidiaries and our payment processing subsidiary, RealPage Payment Processing Services, Inc. Our foreign subsidiaries may, under certain circumstances, be required to guaranty our obligations under the credit facility. Such guarantees by existing and future subsidiaries are and will be secured by substantially all of the property of such subsidiaries. Our credit facility contains customary covenants, which limit our and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or guarantee indebtedness of others; • create liens on our assets; • enter into mergers or consolidations; • dispose of assets; • prepay indebtedness or make changes to our governing documents and certain of our agreements; • pay dividends and make other distributions on our capital stock, and redeem and repurchase our capital stock; • make investments, including acquisitions; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • make capital expenditures. Our credit facility also contains customary affirmative covenants, including, among other things, requirements to: take certain actions in the event we form or acquire new subsidiaries; hold annual meetings with our lenders; provide copies of material contracts and amendments to our lenders; locate our collateral only at specified locations; and use commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that certain material contracts permit the assignment of the contract to our lenders; subject in each case to customary exceptions and qualifications. We are also required to comply with a fixed charge coverage ratio, which is a ratio of our EBITDA to our fixed charges as determined in accordance with the credit facility, of 1.25:1:00 for each 12-month period ending at the end of a fiscal quarter, and a senior leverage ratio, which is a ratio of the outstanding revolver usage to our EBITDA as determined in accordance with the credit facility, of 2.75:1.00 for each fiscal quarter. 29 Table of Contents The credit facility contains customary events of default, subject to customary cure periods for certain defaults, that include, among others, non-payment defaults, covenant defaults, material judgment defaults, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults, cross-defaults to certain other material indebtedness, inaccuracy of representations and warranties and a failure to meet certain liquidity thresholds both before and after we make cash payments for earnouts and holdbacks in connection with acquisition transactions. If we experience a decline in cash flow due to any of the factors described in this “Risk Factors” section or otherwise, we could have difficulty paying interest and principal amounts due on our indebtedness and meeting the financial covenants set forth in our credit facility. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain the funds necessary to make required payments under our credit facility, or if we fail to comply with the requirements of our indebtedness, we could default under our credit facility. Any default that is not cured or waived could result in the acceleration of the obligations under the credit facility, an increase in the applicable interest rate under the credit facility and a requirement that our subsidiaries that have guaranteed the credit facility pay the obligations in full, and would permit our lender to exercise remedies with respect to all of the collateral that is securing the credit facility, including substantially all of our and our subsidiary guarantors’ assets. Any such default could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Even if we comply with all of the applicable covenants, the restrictions on the conduct of our business could adversely affect our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financings, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be beneficial to the business. Even if the credit facility was terminated, additional debt we could incur in the future may subject us to similar or additional covenants. Assertions by a third party that we infringe its intellectual property, whether successful or not, could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses. The software and technology industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation, misuse and other violations of intellectual property rights. We have received in the past, and may receive in the future, communications from third parties claiming that we have infringed or otherwise misappropriated the intellectual property rights of others. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims against their use. Since we currently have no patents, we may not use patent infringement as a defensive strategy in such litigation. Additionally, although we have licensed from other parties proprietary technology covered by patents, we cannot be certain that any such patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. If such patents are invalidated or circumvented, this may allow existing and potential competitors to develop products and services that are competitive with, or superior to, our solutions. Many of our customer agreements require us to indemnify our customers for certain third-party claims, such as intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase our costs as a result of defending such claims and may require that we pay damages if there were an adverse ruling or settlement related to any such claims. These types of claims could harm our relationships with our customers, may deter future customers from purchasing our solutions or could expose us to litigation for these claims. Even if we are not a party to any litigation between a customer and a third party, an adverse outcome in any such litigation could make it more difficult for us to defend our intellectual property in any subsequent litigation in which we are a named party. One of our competitors, Yardi Systems, Inc., contacted us and certain of our customers and expressed its concern that we may misappropriate its intellectual property by hosting its applications for our mutual customers in The RealPage Cloud. On January 24, 2011, Yardi Systems, Inc. filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California against RealPage, Inc. and DC Consulting, Inc. Yardi filed a First Amended Complaint on August 12, 2011. The lawsuit alleges claims for relief for violation of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, violation of the California Comprehensive Data Access and Fraud Act, violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, copyright infringement, trade secret misappropriation, unfair competition, and inducement of breach of contract. Yardi seeks injunctive relief, punitive damages, recovery of all profits attributable to Defendants’ allegedly wrongful acts and infringements, statutory damages, exemplary damages, prejudgment interest, and attorneys’ fees and costs. The First Amended Complaint alleges, among other things, that RealPage took Yardi employee, client and independent consultant credentials and used them to access Yardi’s computer system and steal Yardi’s trade secrets and copyrighted software, related support documentation, price lists and other proprietary information. In addition, the First Amended Complaint alleges that RealPage improperly obtained administrative-level access to Yardi’s software and copied it onto RealPage’s servers for its own competitive purposes, used these unauthorized software copies to discover the allegedly proprietary programming, functionality and feature set of Yardi’s software, to compete unfairly against Yardi, to create unauthorized derivative works from Yardi’s software, and to enhance RealPage’s own products and services. Yardi alleges that in doing so, and in offering to indemnify our customers, RealPage induced Cloud customers to violate their confidentiality and other agreements with Yardi. On March 28, 2011, RealPage filed an answer to Yardi’s Complaint, and on September 12, 2011 RealPage answered the First Amended Complaint. RealPage has also filed counterclaims against Yardi, 30 Table of Contents first in connection with its March 28 answer and then in First Amended Counterclaims filed on May 18, 2011. On September 2, 2011, following the Court’s order granting in part and denying in part Yardi’s motion to dismiss certain of RealPage’s causes of action without prejudice, RealPage filed Second Amended Counterclaims. RealPage’s counterclaims allege that Yardi and its agents wrongfully obtained and used our trade secrets and engaged in anti-competitive behavior with respect to certain of our clients. RealPage’s counterclaims seek relief for misappropriation of trade secrets, Sherman Act (antitrust) violations and California Cartwright Act violations, intentional interference with contract, intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, and violation of California’s unfair competition statute. RealPage seeks damages, punitive damages, injunctive relief and all profits, gains and advantages that Yardi received as a result of its wrongful conduct along with attorneys’ fees and costs. Yardi filed a Motion to Dismiss RealPage’s Second Amended Counterclaims on September 30, 2011. On February 13, 2012, the Court denied Yardi’s motion with respect to all claims except for a portion of one of our claims for intentional interference with contract, as to which dismissal was granted. Accordingly, RealPage will move forward with its claims against Yardi. We currently expect trial in this case to be scheduled for late September 2012. It is not possible to predict the outcome of this case, but we intend to defend this case and pursue our counterclaims vigorously. However, even if we were successful in defending against Yardi’s claims or in prevailing on our counterclaims, the proceedings could result in significant costs and divert our management’s attention. On March 26, 2010, Smarter Agent, LLC, a provider of mobile real estate applications, filed a complaint against one of our subsidiaries, Multifamily Technology Solutions, Inc., and multiple other defendants for patent infringement in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our mobile technology infringes three patents held by Smarter Agent purporting to cover: a “Global positioning-based real estate database access device and method,” a “Position-based information access device and method” and a “Position-based information access device and method of searching,” and seeks injunctive relief, unspecified damages, enhanced damages, prejudgment interest, and attorneys’ fees and costs. We have denied the allegations and asserted counterclaims seeking declarations that we are not infringing the patents and that the patents are invalid. In November 2010, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office granted our petition for re-examination of the three patents-in-suit and its first office action found all claims invalid. Smarter Agent has submitted arguments to overcome the objections, but the U.S Patent and Trademark Office has finally rejected one of the patents, with final action on the other two still pending. In March 2011, the court stayed the litigation pending the completion of the re-examination proceedings and any related appeals. Because this lawsuit is at an early stage, it is not possible to predict its outcome. We intend to defend this case and pursue our counterclaims vigorously. However, even if we were successful in defending against such claims or in prevailing on our counterclaims, the proceedings could result in significant costs and divert management’s attention. On January 18, 2012, Earthcomber, LLC filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois alleging that RealPage, Inc. and Multifamily Technology Solutions, Inc. which is the d/b/a for MyNewPlace infringed upon two patents owned by Earthcomber. The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages for the alleged infringement. Because this lawsuit is at an early stage, it is not possible to predict its outcome. An unfavorable outcome in this case could adversely affect our operating results and/or cash flow. We are in the process of evaluating the Earthcomber patent claims, and we intend to defend this case vigorously. However, even if we were successful in defending against Earthcomber’s claims, the proceedings could result in significant costs and divert our management’s attention. The Yardi Systems litigation, Smarter Agent, LLC litigation Earthcomber, LLC litigation or other similar litigation could force us to stop selling, incorporating or using our solutions that include the challenged intellectual property or redesign those solutions that use the technology. In addition, we may have to pay damages if we are found to be in violation of a third party’s rights. We may have to procure a license for the technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, may significantly increase our operating expenses or may require us to restrict our business activities in one or more respects. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. There is no assurance that we would be able to develop alternative solutions or, if alternative solutions were developed, that they would perform as required or be accepted in the relevant markets. In some instances, if we are unable to offer non-infringing technology, or obtain a license for such technology, we may be required to refund some or the entire license fee paid for the infringing technology by our customers. Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to acquired technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. Third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition. 31 Table of Contents Any failure to protect and successfully enforce our intellectual property rights could compromise our proprietary technology and impair our brands. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies we use in our solutions. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our competitors could use the intellectual property we have developed to enhance their own products and services, which could harm our business. We rely on a combination of copyright, service mark, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which provide only limited protection. We currently have no issued patents or pending patent applications and may be unable to obtain patent protection in the future. In addition, if any patents are issued in the future, they may not provide us with any competitive advantages, may not be issued in a manner that gives us the protection that we seek and may be successfully challenged by third parties. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use the technologies underlying our solutions. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technologies is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who have not incurred the substantial expense, time and effort required to create similar innovative products. We cannot assure you that any future service mark or trademark registrations will be issued for pending or future applications or that any registered service marks or trademarks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. If we are unable to secure new marks, maintain already existing marks and enforce the rights to use such marks against unauthorized third-party use, our ability to brand, identify and promote our solutions in the marketplace could be impaired, which could harm our business. We customarily enter into agreements with our employees, contractors and certain parties with whom we do business to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. The steps we have taken, however, may not prevent unauthorized use or the reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, we may be required to release the source code of our software to third parties under certain circumstances. For example, some of our customer agreements provide that if we cease to maintain or support a certain solution without replacing it with a successor solution, then we may be required to release the source code of the software underlying such solution. In addition, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property. Enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on our legal actions being successful against these infringers, but these actions may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. Furthermore, the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. Additionally, if we sell our solutions internationally in the future, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available or as robust in every country in which our solutions are available. As a result, we may not be able to effectively prevent competitors outside the United States from infringing or otherwise misappropriating our intellectual property rights, which could reduce our competitive advantage and ability to compete or otherwise harm our business. We may be unable to halt the operations of websites that aggregate or misappropriate data from our LeaseStar websites. From time to time, third parties have misappropriated data from our LeaseStar websites through website scraping, robots or other means and aggregated this data on their websites with data from other companies. In addition, copycat websites have misappropriated data on our network and attempted to imitate our brand or the functionality of our website. When we have become aware of such websites, we have employed technological or legal measures in an attempt to halt their operations. However, we may be unable to detect all such websites in a timely manner and, even if we could, technological and legal measures may be insufficient to halt their operations. In some cases, particularly in the case of websites operating outside of the United States, our available remedies may not be adequate to protect us against the impact of the operation of such websites. Regardless of whether we can successfully enforce our rights against the operators of these websites, any measures that we may take could require us to expend significant financial or other resources, which could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, to the extent that such activity creates confusion among consumers or advertisers, our brand and business could be harmed. Current and future litigation against us could be costly and time consuming to defend. We are from time to time subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, including claims brought by our customers in connection with commercial disputes, claims brought by our customers’ current or prospective residents, including potential class action lawsuits based on asserted statutory or regulatory violations, and employment claims made by our current or former employees. Litigation, regardless of its outcome, may result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and our resources, which may harm our business, overall financial condition and operating results. In addition, legal claims that have not yet been asserted against us may be asserted in the future. Insurance may not cover such claims, may not be sufficient for one or more such claims and may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or underinsured could result in unanticipated costs, thereby harming our operating results. On January 18, 2012, Earthcomber, LLC filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois alleging that RealPage, Inc. and Multifamily Technology Solutions, Inc. which is the d/b/a for MyNewPlace infringed upon two patents owned by Earthcomber. The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages for the alleged infringement. Because this lawsuit is at an early stage, it is not possible to predict its outcome. An unfavorable outcome in this case could adversely affect our operating results and/or cash flow. We are in the process of evaluating the Earthcomber patent claims, and we intend to defend this case vigorously. However, even if we were successful in defending against Earthcomber’s claims, the proceedings could result in significant costs and divert our management’s attention. 32 Table of Contents On January 24, 2011, Yardi Systems, Inc. filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California against RealPage, Inc. and DC Consulting, Inc. Yardi filed a First Amended Complaint on August 12, 2011. The lawsuit alleges claims for relief for violation of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, violation of the California Comprehensive Data Access and Fraud Act, violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, copyright infringement, trade secret misappropriation, unfair competition, and inducement of breach of contract. Yardi seeks injunctive relief, punitive damages, recovery of all profits attributable to Defendants’ alleged wrongful acts and infringements, statutory damages, exemplary damages, prejudgment interest, and attorneys’ fees and costs. The First Amended Complaint alleges, among other things, that RealPage took Yardi employee, client and independent consultant credentials, and used them to access Yardi’s computer system and steal Yardi’s trade secrets and copyrighted software, related support documentation, price lists and other proprietary information. In addition, the First Amended Complaint alleges that RealPage improperly obtained administrative-level access to Yardi’s software and copied it onto RealPage’s servers for its own competitive purposes, used these unauthorized software copies to discover the allegedly proprietary programming, functionality and feature set of Yardi’s software, to compete unfairly against Yardi, to create unauthorized derivative works from Yardi’s software, and to enhance RealPage’s own products and services. Yardi alleges that in doing so, and in offering to indemnify our customers, RealPage induced Cloud customers to violate their confidentiality and other agreements with Yardi. On March 28, 2011, RealPage filed an answer to Yardi’s Complaint, and on September 12, 2011 RealPage answered the First Amended Complaint. RealPage has also filed counterclaims against Yardi, first in connection with its March 28 answer and then in First Amended Counterclaims filed on May 18, 2011. On September 2, 2011, following the Court’s order granting in part and denying in part Yardi’s motion to dismiss certain of RealPage’s causes of action without prejudice, RealPage filed Second Amended Counterclaims. RealPage’s counterclaims allege that Yardi and its agents wrongfully obtained and used our trade secrets and engaged in anti-competitive behavior with respect to certain of our clients. RealPage’s counterclaims seek relief for misappropriation of trade secrets, Sherman Act (antitrust) violations and California Cartwright Act violations, intentional interference with contract, intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, and violation of California’s unfair competition statute. RealPage seeks damages, punitive damages, injunctive relief and all profits, gains and advantages that Yardi received as a result of its wrongful conduct along with attorneys’ fees and costs. Yardi filed a Motion to Dismiss RealPage’s Second Amended Counterclaims on September 30, 2011. On February 13, 2012, the Court denied Yardi’s motion with respect to all claims except for a portion of one of our claims for intentional interference with contract, as to which dismissal was granted. Accordingly, RealPage will move forward with its claims against Yardi. We currently expect trial in this case to be scheduled for late September 2012. It is not possible to predict the outcome of this case, but we intend to defend this case and pursue our counterclaims vigorously. However, even if we were successful in defending against Yardi’s claims or in prevailing on our counterclaims, the proceedings could result in significant costs and divert our management’s attention. In March 2010, the District Attorney of Ventura County, California issued an administrative subpoena to us seeking certain information related to our provision of utility billing services in the State of California. A representative of the District Attorney has informed us that the subpoena was issued in connection with a general investigation of industry practices with respect to utility billing in California. Utility billing is subject to regulation by state law and various state administrative agencies, including, in California, the California Public Utility Commission, or the CPUC, and the Division of Weights and Measures, or the DWM. We have provided the District Attorney with the information requested in the subpoena. In late August 2010, we received limited, follow-up requests for information to which we have responded. The District Attorney’s office has not initiated an administrative or other enforcement action against us, nor have they asserted any violations of the applicable regulations by us. Given the early stage of this investigation, it is difficult to predict its outcome and whether the District Attorney will pursue an administrative or other enforcement action against us in the State of California and what the result of any such action would be. However, penalties or assessments of violations of regulations promulgated by the CPUC or DWM or other regulators may be calculated on a per occurrence basis. Due to the large number of billing transactions we process for our customers in California, our potential liability in an enforcement action could be significant. If the District Attorney ultimately pursues an administrative or other enforcement action against us, we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the potential claims and would defend them vigorously. However, even if we were successful in defending against such claims, the proceedings could result in significant costs and divert management’s attention. On March 26, 2010, Smarter Agent, LLC, a provider of mobile real estate applications, filed a complaint against our subsidiary, Multifamily Technology Solutions, Inc., and multiple other defendants for patent infringement in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our mobile technology infringes three patents held by Smarter Agent purporting to cover: a “Global positioning-based real estate database access device and method,” a “Position-based information 33 Table of Contents access device and method” and a “Position-based information access device and method of searching,” and seeks injunctive relief, unspecified damages, enhanced damages, prejudgment interest, and attorneys’ fees and costs. We have denied the allegations and asserted counterclaims seeking declarations that we are not infringing the patents and that the patents are invalid. In November 2010, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office granted our petition for re-examination of the three patents-in-suit and its first office action found all claims invalid. Smarter Agent has submitted arguments to overcome the objections, but the U.S Patent and Trademark Office has finally rejected one of the patents, with final action on the other two still pending. In March 2011, the court stayed the litigation pending the completion of the re-examination proceedings and any related appeals. Because this lawsuit is at an early stage, it is not possible to predict its outcome. We intend to defend this case and pursue our counterclaims vigorously. However, even if we were successful in defending against such claims or in prevailing on our counterclaims, the proceedings could result in significant costs and divert management’s attention. We could be sued for contract, warranty or product liability claims, and such lawsuits may disrupt our business, divert management’s attention and our financial resources or have an adverse effect on our financial results. We provide warranties to customers of certain of our solutions and services, relating primarily to product functionality, network uptime, critical infrastructure availability and hardware replacement. General errors, defects, inaccuracies or other performance problems in the software applications underlying our solutions or inaccuracies in or loss of the data we provide to our customers could result in financial or other damages to our customers. Additionally, errors associated with any delivery of our services, including utility billing, could result in financial or other damages to our customers. There can be no assurance that any limitations of liability set forth in our contracts would be enforceable or would otherwise protect us from liability for damages. We maintain general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions, in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. There can be no assurance that this coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large product liability claims, or that the insurer will not deny coverage for any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large product liability claims against us that exceeds available insurance coverage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to develop our brands cost-effectively, our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. We market our solutions under discrete brand names. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of our brands is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future solutions and is an important element in attracting new customers and retaining our existing customers. Additionally, we believe that developing these brands in a cost-effective manner is critical in meeting our expected margins. In the past, our efforts to build our brands have involved significant expenses and we intend to continue to make expenditures on brand promotion. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incurred in building our brands. If we fail to cost-effectively build and maintain our brands, we may fail to attract new customers or retain our existing customers, and our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors’ views of us. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Beginning with the year ended December 31, 2011, we are required to be in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, harm our ability to operate our business and reduce the trading price of our stock. Changes in, or errors in our interpretations and applications of, financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices or errors in our interpretations and applications of financial accounting standards or practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way in which we conduct our business. We have incurred, and will incur, increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could harm our operating results. As a public company, we have incurred, and will incur, significant legal, accounting, investor relations and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also have incurred and will incur costs associated with current corporate governance requirements, including requirements under Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the Securities Exchange Commission and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs substantially and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect that, as a public company, it will be more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and that it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers. 34 Table of Contents Government regulation of the rental housing industry, including background screening services and utility billing, the Internet and e-commerce is evolving, and changes in regulations or our failure to comply with regulations could harm our operating results. The rental housing industry is subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local regulations. Our services and solutions must work within the extensive and evolving regulatory requirements applicable to our customers and third-party service providers, including, but not limited to, those under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Deceptive Trade Practices Act, the DPPA, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, the Privacy Rules, Safeguards Rule and Consumer Report Information Disposal Rule promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, the regulations of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, or HUD, HIPAA/HITECH and complex and divergent state and local laws and regulations related to data privacy and security, credit and consumer reporting, deceptive trade practices, discrimination in housing, utility billing and energy and gas consumption. These regulations are complex, change frequently and may become more stringent over time. Although we attempt to structure and adapt our solutions and service offerings to comply with these complex and evolving laws and regulations, we may be found to be in violation. If we are found to be in violation of any applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to administrative and other enforcement actions as well as class action lawsuits or demands for client reimbursement. Additionally, many applicable laws and regulations provide for penalties or assessments on a per occurrence basis. Due to the nature of our business, the type of services we provide and the large number of transactions processed by our solutions, our potential liability in an enforcement action or class action lawsuit could be significant. In addition, entities such as HUD and the FTC have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations that may impact our customers and our business. We believe increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personally identifiable information or consumer information could affect our customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for our on demand software solutions. Some of our LeaseStar products operate under the real estate brokerage laws of numerous states and require maintaining licenses in many of these states. Brokerage laws in these states could change, affecting our ability to do provide some LeaseStar products in these states. We deliver our on demand software solutions over the Internet and sell and market certain of our solutions over the Internet. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. Taxation of products or services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of on demand software solutions, which could harm our business and operating results. Our LeasingDesk insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth. Through our wholly owned subsidiary, Multifamily Internet Ventures LLC, we hold insurance agent licenses from a number of individual state departments of insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision in connection with the operation of our LeasingDesk insurance business. This state governmental supervision could reduce our profitability or limit the growth of our LeasingDesk insurance business by increasing the costs of regulatory compliance, limiting or restricting the solutions we provide or the methods by which we provide them or subjecting us to the possibility of regulatory actions or proceedings. Our continued ability to maintain these insurance agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated from time to time by the regulatory authorities in each of these jurisdictions. Furthermore, state insurance departments conduct periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance agents. In all jurisdictions, the applicable laws and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. Generally, such authorities are vested with relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations. Accordingly, we may be precluded or temporarily suspended from carrying on some or all of the activities of our LeasingDesk insurance business or otherwise be fined or penalized in a given jurisdiction. No assurances can be given that our LeasingDesk insurance business can continue to be conducted in any given jurisdiction as it has been conducted in the past. 35 Table of Contents We generate commission revenue from the insurance policies we sell as a registered insurance agent and if insurance premiums decline or if the insureds experience greater than expected losses, our revenues could decline and our operating results could be harmed. Through our wholly owned subsidiary, Multifamily Internet Ventures LLC, a managing general insurance agency, we generate commission revenue from offering liability and renter’s insurance. Additionally, Multifamily Internet Ventures LLC has recently commenced the sale of additional insurance products, including auto and other personal lines insurance, to residents that buy renter’s insurance from us. These policies are ultimately underwritten by various insurance carriers. Some of the property owners and managers that participate in our programs opt to require residents to purchase rental insurance policies and agree to grant to Multifamily Internet Ventures LLC exclusive marketing rights at their properties. If demand for residential rental housing declines, property owners and managers may be forced to reduce their rental rates and to stop requiring the purchase of rental insurance in order to reduce the overall cost of renting. If property owners or managers cease to require renter’s insurance, elect to offer policies from competing providers or insurance premiums decline, our revenues from selling insurance policies will be adversely affected. Additionally, one type of commission paid by insurance carriers to Multifamily Internet Ventures LLC is contingent commission, which is based on claims experienced at the properties for which the residents purchase insurance. In the event that claims by the insureds increase unexpectedly, the contingent commission we typically earn will be adversely affected. As a result, our quarterly operating results could fall below the expectations of analysts or investors, in which event our stock price may decline. Multifamily Internet Ventures LLC is required to maintain a 50-state general agency insurance license as well as individual insurance licenses for each sales agent involved in the solicitation of insurance products. Both the agency and individual licenses require compliance with state insurance regulations, payment of licensure fees, and continuing education programs. In the event that regulatory compliance requirements are not met, Multifamily Internet Ventures LLC could be subject to license suspension or revocation, state Department of Insurance audits, and regulatory fines. As a result, our ability to engage in the business of insurance could be restricted, and our operating revenue will be adversely affected. Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses, or NOLs, to offset future taxable income. Our ability to utilize NOLs of companies that we may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. Future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. For these reasons, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of the NOLs reflected on our balance sheet, even if we maintain profitability. If we are required to collect sales and use taxes on the solutions we sell in additional taxing jurisdictions, we may be subject to liability for past sales and our future sales may decrease. States and some local taxing jurisdictions have differing rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. We review these rules and regulations periodically and currently collect and remit sales taxes in taxing jurisdictions where we believe we are required to do so. However, additional state and/or local taxing jurisdictions may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on us, including for past sales. A successful assertion that we should be collecting additional sales or other taxes on our solutions could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing our solutions or may otherwise harm our business and operating results. This risk is greater with regard to solutions acquired through acquisitions. We may also become subject to tax audits or similar procedures in jurisdictions where we already collect and remit sales taxes. A successful assertion that we have not collected and remitted taxes at the appropriate levels may also result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales. Liability for past taxes may also include very substantial interest and penalty charges. Our customer contracts provide that our customers must pay all applicable sales and similar taxes. Nevertheless, customers may be reluctant to pay back taxes and may refuse responsibility for interest or penalties associated with those taxes. If we are required to collect and pay back taxes and the associated interest and penalties, and if our customers fail or refuse to reimburse us for all or a portion of these amounts, we will incur unplanned expenses that may be substantial. Moreover, imposition of such taxes on our solutions going forward will effectively increase the cost of such solutions to our customers and may adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers or to gain new customers in the areas in which such taxes are imposed. Changes in our effective tax rate could harm our future operating results. We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of expenses in differing jurisdictions. Our tax rate is affected by changes in the mix of earnings and losses in jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates, including jurisdictions in which we have completed or may complete acquisitions, certain non-deductible expenses arising from the requirement to expense stock options and the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, including our ability to utilize our net operating losses. Increases in our effective tax rate could harm our operating results. 36 Table of Contents We rely on our management team and need additional personnel to grow our business, and the loss of one or more key employees or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business. Our success and future growth depend on the skills, working relationships and continued services of our management team. The loss of our Chief Executive Officer or other senior executives could adversely affect our business. Our future success also will depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled software developers, marketing and sales personnel, technical support and product development personnel in the United States and internationally. All of our employees work for us on an at-will basis. Competition for these types of personnel is intense, particularly in the software industry. As a result, we may be unable to attract or retain qualified personnel. Our inability to attract and retain the necessary personnel could adversely affect our business. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be harmed. We believe that a strong corporate culture that nurtures core values and philosophies is essential to our long-term success. We call these values and philosophies the “RealPage Promise” and we seek to practice the RealPage Promise in our actions every day. The RealPage Promise embodies our corporate values with respect to customer service, investor communications, employee respect and professional development and management decision-making and leadership. As our organization grows and we are required to implement more complex organizational structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture which could negatively impact our future success. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock The concentration of our capital stock owned by insiders may limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our executive officers, directors, and entities affiliated with them together beneficially owned approximately 52.8% of our common stock as of December 31, 2011. Further, Stephen T. Winn, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, and entities beneficially owned by Mr. Winn held an aggregate of approximately 37.6% of our common stock as of December 31, 2011. This significant concentration of ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. Mr. Winn and entities beneficially owned by Mr. Winn may control our management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of our assets. Consequently, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if that change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The trading price of our common stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including, but not limited to, those described in this “Risk Factors” section, some of which are beyond our control. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock include: • variations in our operating results or in expectations regarding our operating results; • variations in operating results of similar companies; • announcements of technological innovations, new solutions or enhancements, strategic alliances or agreements by us or by our competitors; • announcements by competitors regarding their entry into new markets, and new product, service and pricing strategies; • marketing, advertising or other initiatives by us or our competitors; • the gain or loss of customers; • threatened or actual litigation; 37 Table of Contents • major changes in our board of directors or management; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any research analysts that elect to follow our common stock; • market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole; • the overall performance of the equity markets; • sales of our shares of common stock by existing stockholders; • volatility in our stock price, which may lead to higher stock-based compensation expense under applicable accounting standards; and • adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology and specifically Internet-related companies, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may harm the market price of our common stock regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and our resources, whether or not we are successful in such litigation. Our stock price could decline due to the large number of outstanding shares of our common stock eligible for future sale. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These sales could also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of December 31, 2011, we had 72,701,571 shares of common stock outstanding. Of these shares, 71,032,511 were immediately tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act, unless these shares are held by “affiliates,” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. As of December 31, 2011, holders of 37,966,766 shares, or approximately 52.8%, of our outstanding common stock were entitled to rights with respect to the registration of these shares under the Securities Act. If we register their shares of common stock, these stockholders could sell those shares in the public market without being subject to the volume and other restrictions of Rule 144 and Rule 701. In addition, we have registered approximately 16,934,606 shares of common stock that have been issued or reserved for future issuance under our stock incentive plans. Of these shares, 3,482,000 shares were eligible for sale upon the exercise of vested options as of December 31, 2011. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; • not providing for cumulative voting in the election of directors; • authorizing our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with rights senior to those of our common stock; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and • requiring advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals. 38 Table of Contents These and other provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and result in the market price of our common stock being lower than it would be without these provisions. If securities analysts do not continue to publish research or reports about our business or if they publish negative evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. We expect that the trading price for our common stock may be affected by research or reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade their evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. If we do not pay cash dividends, you would receive a return on your investment in our common stock only if the market price of our common stock has increased when you sell your shares. In addition, the terms of our credit facilities currently restrict our ability to pay dividends. 39 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 