Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Related to Our Business Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations include, but are not limited to, the risks set forth below. The risks described below should not be considered comprehensive and all-inclusive. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. If any events occur that give rise to the following risks, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Many such factors are beyond our ability to control or predict. Investors are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. We may not have sufficient cash from operations to pay the minimum quarterly distribution after we have paid our expenses, including the expenses of our general partner, funded merchandise and perpetual care trusts and established necessary cash reserves. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from operations, which fluctuates from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the volume of our sales; 8 Table of Contents • the prices at which we sell our products and services; and • the level of our operating and general administrative costs. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, such as working capital borrowings, capital expenditures and funding requirements for trusts and our ability to withdraw amounts from trusts. If we do not generate sufficient cash to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on the common units or the subordinated units, the market price of the common units may decline materially. We expect that we will need working capital borrowings of approximately $11.7 million during the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2008 in order to have sufficient operating surplus to pay the full minimum quarterly distributions on all of our common units and subordinated units for that period, although the actual amount of working capital borrowings could be materially more or less. These working capital borrowings enable us to finance the build up in our accounts receivables and to construct mausoleums and purchase products for our pre-need sales in advance of the time of need which, in turn, allows us to generate available cash for operating surplus over time by accessing the funds held in trust for the products purchased. Our indebtedness limits cash flow available for our operations and for distribution to our partners. As of December 31, 2007, we had $146.2 million in debt. Leverage makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns. Because we are obligated to dedicate a portion of our cash flow to service our debt obligations, our cash flow available for operations and for distribution to our partners will be reduced. The amount of indebtedness we have could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the markets in which we compete, limit our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes, and require us to dedicate more cash flow to service our debt than we desire. Our ability to satisfy our indebtedness as required by the terms of our debt will be dependent on, among other things, the successful execution of our long-term strategic plan. Subject to limitations in our credit facility and under our senior secured notes, we may incur additional debt in the future, for acquisitions or otherwise, and servicing this debt could further limit our cash flow. Restrictions in our credit facility may prevent us from declaring dividends or making any distributions and may limit our ability to capitalize on acquisition and other business opportunities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. For example, our credit facility contains covenants that restrict or limit our ability to: • enter into a new line of business; • enter into any agreement of merger or acquisition; • sell, transfer, assign or convey assets; • grant certain liens; • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • make certain loans, advances and investments; • declare and pay dividends and distributions; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • make voluntary payments or modifications of indebtedness 9 Table of Contents Furthermore, our credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios and tests. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our credit facility may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our credit facility, the lenders will be able to accelerate the maturity of all borrowings under the credit facility and demand repayment of amounts outstanding, our lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us may terminate, and we will be prohibited from declaring dividends or making any distributions. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. Any subsequent replacement of our credit facility or any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions. Adverse conditions in the financial markets may reduce the principal and earnings of the investments held in merchandise and perpetual care trusts and adversely affect our revenues and cash flow. A substantial portion of our revenues is generated from investment returns that we realize from merchandise and perpetual care trusts. Earnings and investment gains and losses on investments by merchandise and perpetual care trusts are affected by financial market conditions that are not within our control. Because a significant portion of merchandise and perpetual care trust principal is invested in fixed-income securities, investments held in these trusts are particularly susceptible to changes in interest rates. Merchandise trust principal invested in equity securities is also sensitive to the performance of the stock market. Earnings are also affected by the mix of fixed-income and equity securities that our investment managers choose to maintain in the trusts and by the fact that our investment managers may not choose the optimal mix for any particular market condition. Declines in earnings from merchandise and perpetual care trusts could cause declines in current and future revenues and cash flow. In addition, any significant or sustained investment losses could result in merchandise trusts having insufficient funds to cover our cost of delivering products and services, or in perpetual care trusts offsetting less of our cemetery maintenance costs. In either case, we would be required to use our operating cash to deliver those products and perform those services, which could decrease our cash available for distribution. These events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Pre-need sales typically generate low or negative cash flow in the periods immediately following sales which could adversely affect our ability to service our debt and make distributions to our partners. When we sell cemetery merchandise and services on a pre-need basis, we pay commissions on the sale to our salespeople and are required by state law to deposit a portion of the sales proceeds into a merchandise trust. In addition, most of our customers finance their pre-need purchases under installment contracts over a number of years. Depending on the trusting requirements of the states in which we operate, the applicable sales commission rates and the amount of the down payment, our cash flow from sales to customers through installment contracts is typically negative until we have paid the sale commission due on the sale or until we purchase the products or perform the services and are permitted to withdraw funds we have deposited in the merchandise trust. To the extent we increase pre-need activities, state trusting requirements are increased or we delay the purchase of the products or performance of the services we sell on a pre-need basis, our cash flow immediately following pre-need sales may be further reduced, and our ability to service our debt and make distributions to our partners could be adversely affected. Because fixed costs are inherent in our business, a decrease in our revenues can have a disproportionate effect on our cash flow and profits. Our business requires us to incur many of the costs of operating and maintaining facilities, land and equipment regardless of the level of sales in any given period. For example, we must pay salaries, utilities, property taxes and maintenance costs on our cemetery properties and funeral homes regardless of the number of interments or funeral services we perform. Because we cannot decrease these costs significantly or rapidly when 10 Table of Contents we experience declines in sales, declines in sales can cause our margins, profits and cash flow to decline at a greater rate than the decline in our revenues. Our failure to attract and retain qualified sales personnel and management could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our ability to attract and retain a qualified sales force and other personnel is an important factor in achieving future success. Buying cemetery and funeral home products and services, especially at-need products and services, is very emotional for most customers, so our sales force must be particularly sensitive to our customers’ needs. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to attract and retain a skilled sales force. If we are unable to maintain a qualified and productive sales force, our revenues may decline, and our cash available for distribution may decrease. We are also dependent upon the continued services of our key officers. The loss of any of our key officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to locate or employ on acceptable terms qualified replacements for senior management or key employees if their services were no longer available. We do not maintain key employee insurance on any of our executive officers. We may not be able to identify, complete, fund or successfully integrate additional cemetery acquisitions which could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. A primary component of our business strategy is to grow through acquisitions of cemeteries and, to a lesser extent, funeral homes. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and acquire cemeteries on terms favorable to us or at all. We may face competition from other death care companies in making acquisitions. Our ability to make acquisitions in the future may be limited by our inability to secure adequate financing, restrictions under our existing or future debt agreements, competition from third parties or a lack of suitable properties. For example, we are not permitted to make acquisitions for more than $2.5 million, or any series of acquisitions aggregating more than $20.0 million in any consecutive 12-month period, without the requisite consent of the lenders under our credit facility. Also, when we acquire cemeteries that do not have a robust pre-need sales program, the operation of the cemetery and implementation of a pre-need sales program after acquisition may require significant amounts of working capital. This may make it more difficult for us to make acquisitions. We may be unable to successfully integrate our acquisition of certain assets from SCI Funeral Services, Inc. or our other acquisitions with our operations or realize all of the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. Integration of the Service Corporation International’s businesses and operations that we acquired with our existing business and operations is a complex, time-consuming and costly process, particularly given that the acquisition has significantly increased our size. Failure to successfully integrate the SCI Funeral Services, Inc. businesses and operations with our existing business and operations in a timely manner may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Similarly, our ongoing acquisition program exposes us to integration risks as well. The difficulties of combining the acquired operations include, among other things: • operating a significantly larger combined organization and integrating additional assets to our existing operations; • coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating personnel from diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; • consolidating partnership, technological and administrative functions; • integrating internal controls, compliance under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other governance matters; 11 Table of Contents • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses; and • potential environmental and regulatory liabilities and title problems. In addition, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of certain assets from SCI Funeral Services, Inc., such as cost savings and revenue enhancements, for various reasons, including difficulties integrating operations and personnel and higher costs. If the trend toward cremation in the United States continues, our revenues may decline which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition and could impact our ability to make cash distributions. We and other death care companies that focus on traditional methods of interment face competition from the increasing number of cremations in the United States. Industry studies indicate that the percentage of cremations has steadily increased and that cremations will represent approximately 39% of the United States death care market by the year 2010, compared to approximately 33.5% in 2007. Because the products and services associated with a cremation, such as niches and urns, produce lower revenues than the products and services associated with a traditional interment, a continuing trend toward cremations may reduce our revenues and, therefore, our cash available for distribution. Regulatory and Legal Risks Our operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under numerous federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, including extensive regulations concerning trusts, pre-need sales, cemetery ownership, marketing practices, crematories, environmental matters and various other aspects of our business. If state laws or interpretations of existing state laws change or if new laws are enacted, we may be required to increase trust deposits or to alter the timing of withdrawals from trusts, which may have a negative impact on our revenues and cash flow. We are required by state laws to deposit specified percentages of the proceeds from our pre-need and at-need sales of interment rights into perpetual care trusts and proceeds from our pre-need sales of cemetery products and services into merchandise trusts. These laws also determine when we are allowed to withdraw funds from those trusts. If those laws or the interpretations of those laws change or if new laws are enacted, we may be required to deposit more of the sales proceeds we receive from our sales into the trusts or to defer withdrawals from the trusts, thereby decreasing our cash flow until we are permitted to withdraw the deposited amounts. This could also reduce our cash available for distribution. If state laws or their interpretations change, or new laws are enacted relating to the ownership of cemeteries and funeral homes, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Some states require cemeteries to be organized in the nonprofit form but permit those nonprofit entities to contract with for-profit companies for management services. If state laws change or new laws are enacted that prohibit us from managing cemeteries in those states, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are subject to legal restrictions on our marketing practices that could reduce the volume of our sales which could have an adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. The enactment or amendment of legislation or regulations relating to marketing activities may make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services. For example, the federal “do not call” legislation has adversely affected our ability to market our products and services using telephone solicitation by limiting who we may call 12 Table of Contents and increasing our costs of compliance. As a result, we rely heavily on direct mail marketing and telephone follow-up with existing contacts. Additional laws or regulations limiting our ability to market through direct mail, over the telephone, through internet and e-mail advertising or door-to-door may make it difficult to identify potential customers, which could increase our costs of marketing. Both increases in marketing costs and restrictions on our ability to market effectively could reduce our revenues and could have an adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition, as well as our ability to make cash distributions to you. We are subject to environmental and health and safety regulations that may adversely affect our operating results. Our cemetery and funeral home operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local environmental and health and safety regulations. We may become subject to liability for the removal of hazardous substances and solid waste under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) and similar state laws. Under CERCLA and similar state laws, joint and several liability may be imposed on various parties, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal activity. Our funeral home, cemetery and crematory operations include the use of some materials that may meet the definition of “hazardous substances” under CERCLA and thus may give rise to liability if released to the environment through a spill or discharge. We cannot assure you that we will not face liability under CERCLA for any conditions at our properties, and we cannot assure you that these liabilities will not be material. Our cemetery and funeral home operations are subject to regulation of underground and above ground storage tanks and laws managing the disposal of solid waste. If new requirements under local, state or federal laws were to be adopted, and were more stringent than existing requirements, new permits or capital expenditures may be required. Our funeral home operations are generally subject to federal and state regulations regarding the disposal of medical waste, and are also subject to regulation by federal, state or local authorities under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA). We are required to maintain, and report, if applicable thresholds are met, a list of any hazardous materials we use under EPCRA to state, federal, and local agencies. Our crematory operations are subject to regulation under the federal Clean Air Act and any analogous state laws. If new regulations applicable to our crematory operations were to be adopted, they could require permits or capital expenditures that would increase our costs of operation and compliance. In 2006, a material weakness was identified in our internal controls over financial reporting. A material weakness or combination of significant deficiencies in our system of internal controls over financial reporting could result in our consolidated financial statements not being prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In 2006, we restated previously issued financial statements and material audit adjustments necessary to present the 2005 and third quarter 2006 financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The restatement related to our failure to recognize revenue at the time pre-need burial vaults were installed. Specifically, revenue should be recognized once vaults are installed, and management did not have controls in place to ensure that such revenue was recognized once the vault had been installed. Because of this material weakness, we concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 based on the criteria in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. To remediate the material weakness, we made changes to our automated revenue recognition systems which capture revenue recognition events that were previously excluded. Management believes that such procedures have remediated the material weaknesses associated with the restatements. 13 Table of Contents Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our general partner and its affiliates have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests to your detriment. As of December 31, 2007, CFSI LLC owned an aggregate 26.7% limited partner interest in us and owned all of the Class A units of our general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise between CFSI LLC and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of the unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • The board of directors of our general partner is elected by the owners of our general partner. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in good faith, the directors of our general partner also have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to the owners of our general partner. By purchasing common units, unitholders will be deemed to have consented to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law. • Our partnership agreement limits the liability of our general partner, reduces its fiduciary duties and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions that might, without the limitations, constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional limited partner interests and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders. • Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. • Our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates. • In some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds or sell assets outside of the ordinary course of business in order to permit the payment of distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to hasten the expiration of the subordination period. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors, which could reduce the price at which the common units will trade. Unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not select our general partner or elect the board of directors of our general partner and will have no right to select our general partner or elect its board of directors in the future. We are not required to have, and do not have, a majority of independent directors on our board. The board of directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, are chosen entirely by the owners of our general partner and not our unitholders. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than the general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of 14 Table of Contents directors of our general partner, cannot be voted on any matter. In addition, the partnership agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Our general partner can transfer its ownership interest in us without unitholder consent under certain circumstances, and the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in the partnership agreement on the ability of the owners of our general partner to transfer their ownership interest in the general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of the general partner with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. We may issue additional common units without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interests. During the subordination period, our general partner may cause us to issue up to 2,119,891 additional common units without your approval. Our general partner may also cause us to issue an unlimited number of additional common units or other equity securities of equal rank with the common units, without your approval, in numerous circumstances during the subordination period, including, but not limited to, in connection with an acquisition or an expansion capital improvement that increases cash flow from operations per unit on an estimated pro forma basis; if the proceeds of the issuance are used to repay indebtedness, the cost of which to service is greater than the distribution obligations associated with the units issued in connection with its retirement; or the redemption of common units or other equity interests of equal rank with the common units from the net proceeds of an issuance of common units or parity units, but only if the redemption price equals the net proceeds per unit, before expenses, to us. After the end of the subordination period, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of the unitholders. You will not have the right to approve our issuance at any time of equity securities ranking junior to the common units. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • your proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by the common unitholders will increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; Cost reimbursements due our general partner may be substantial and will reduce the cash available for distribution to you. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including CFSI LLC and the officers and directors of our general partner, for all expenses they incur on 15 Table of Contents our behalf. The reimbursement of expenses could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions to you. Our general partner determines the amount of these expenses. In addition, our general partner and its affiliates may provide us with other services for which we will be charged fees as determined by our general partner. In establishing cash reserves, our general partner may reduce the amount of available cash for distribution to you. The partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that it establishes to fund our future operating expenditures. The partnership agreement also permits the general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to you. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price. If, at any time, our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon the sale of your common units. You may be required to repay distributions that you have received from us. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Assignees who become substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership. However, assignees are not liable for obligations unknown to the assignee at the time the assignee became a limited partner if the liabilities could not be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders In addition to reading the following risk factors, you should read “Material Tax Considerations” included in our Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-144453) for a further discussion of the expected material federal income tax consequences of owning and disposing of common units. We may have tax liabilities related to periods before our initial public offering and less net operating losses available to reduce taxable income and therefore tax liabilities for future taxable periods. Because our business was conducted by an affiliated group of corporations during periods prior to the completion of our initial public offering, we may have federal and state income tax liabilities that relate to our prior operations and to transactions related to our formation. In addition, the amount of cash distributions we receive from our corporate subsidiaries over the next several years will depend in part upon the amount of net operating losses available to those subsidiaries to reduce the amount of income subject to federal income tax they would otherwise pay. These net operating losses will begin to expire in 2019 and are available to reduce future 16 Table of Contents taxable income that would otherwise be subject to federal income taxes. The amount of net operating losses available to reduce the income tax liability of our corporate subsidiaries in future taxable years could be reduced as a result of the prior operations and the transactions occurring immediately before our initial public offering. CFSI LLC has agreed to indemnify us against additional income tax liabilities, if any, that arise from our operations prior to our initial public offering, and income tax liabilities, if any, that arise from the consummation of the transactions related to our formation in excess of $600,000 if those liabilities are asserted by the IRS or any state taxing authority prior to the expiration of the applicable statutes of limitations for income taxes of Cornerstone, for its taxable period ending with the conversion of Cornerstone into CFSI LLC (generally, three years from the filing of the tax return for such period). Also, CFSI LLC has agreed to indemnify us against any liabilities we may be subject to in the future resulting from a reduction in our net operating losses as a result of such prior operations or as a result of such formation transactions in excess of that which is believed to result from them at the time of our initial public offering. We cannot assure you that we will not ultimately be responsible for any or all of these liabilities, if they occur. Any increase in the tax liabilities of our corporate subsidiaries because of a reduction in net operating losses not recouped under the indemnity will reduce our cash available for distribution. Changes in the ownership of our units, including the changes occurring as a result of our initial public offering may result in annual limitations on our use of net operating losses available to reduce taxable income, which could increase our tax liabilities and decrease cash available for distribution in future taxable periods. The use of the net operating losses by our corporate subsidiaries may be limited if the ownership of our units changes such that our corporate subsidiaries are deemed to have an “ownership change” under applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. In general, an ownership change will occur if the percentage of our units, based on the value of the units, owned by certain unitholders or groups of unitholders increases by more than fifty percentage points during a three-year period. For this purpose, the unitholders who acquired interests in us pursuant to our initial public offering will be treated as a single group, as will those persons who acquire units in this or any subsequent offering we may make. The public group that acquired units in our initial public offering acquired approximately 49% of the total partnership interests that were outstanding immediately after completion of the initial public offering. Those units likely constituted more than 50% of the value of all ownership interests in us. However, applicable Treasury Regulations provide generally that if in a public offering units are issued solely for cash, for purposes of calculating the percentage of ownership change resulting from the transaction, the acquiring unitholders will be deemed to acquire only up to 50% of the number of units they actually acquire. At the time of our initial public offering, our tax counsel opined that the initial public offering should not result in an ownership change. No ruling has been or will be requested from the IRS regarding this issue, and an opinion of counsel represents only the counsel’s legal judgment and does not bind the IRS or the courts. Thus there remains some risk that our initial public offering resulted in an ownership change. If an ownership change did occur, each of our corporate subsidiaries would be restricted annually in its ability to use its net operating losses to reduce its federal taxable income to an amount equal to the value of the corporation on the date of the ownership change multiplied by the applicable federal long-term tax-exempt rate in effect at such time. In the event that the initial public offering did not create an ownership change, our issuance of common units in November of 2005 likely created an ownership change with respect to the shares of our corporate subsidiaries for the purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. However, we do not believe this ownership change will have a material effect on the use by our corporate subsidiaries of their remaining net operating losses. Nonetheless, to the extent that an annual net operating loss limitation for any one year does restrict the ability of our corporate subsidiaries to use their remaining net operating losses, an increase in tax liabilities of our corporate subsidiaries could result, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to you. 17 Table of Contents Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS treats us as a corporation or we become subject to additional entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to you. The after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. If any of these states were to impose a tax on us, the cash available for distribution to you would be reduced. The partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. We have subsidiaries that will be treated as corporations for federal income tax purposes and subject to corporate-level income taxes. Some of our operations are conducted through subsidiaries that are organized as C corporations. Accordingly, these corporate subsidiaries are subject to corporate-level tax, which reduces the cash available for distribution to our partnership and, in turn, to you. If the IRS were to successfully assert that these corporations have more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation was enacted that increased the corporate tax rate, the cash available for distribution could be further reduced. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted, and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. You may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, you will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income even if you receive no cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. 18 Table of Contents Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price greater than your tax basis in those units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will take depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of the existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns We will adopt certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. 19 Table of Contents The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. Please read “Material Tax Considerations—Disposition of Common Units—Constructive Termination” for a discussion of the consequences of our termination for federal income tax purposes. You will likely be subject to state and local taxes and filing requirements in jurisdictions where you do not live as a result of an investment in units. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. You will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. Following the acquisition of SCI Assets, we will own assets or conduct business in a majority of states and in Puerto Rico. Most of these various jurisdictions currently impose, or may in the future impose, an income tax on individuals, corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or do business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in the common units. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, members of Congress are considering substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect certain publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations 20 Table of Contents thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Although the currently proposed legislation would not appear to affect our federal income tax treatment as a partnership, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury regulations, and, accordingly, our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 Table of Contents 