ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS ------------ The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Industry - ----------------------------- Failure of our schools to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for school operations could result in financial penalties, restrictions on our operations and loss of external financial aid funding, which could affect our revenues and impose significant operating restrictions on us. Our schools are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state governmental agencies and by accrediting commissions. In particular, the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder by the DOE, set forth numerous standards that our schools must satisfy to participate in various federal student financial assistance programs under Title IV Programs. In 2005, we derived approximately 80% of our revenues, calculated on a cash basis, from Title IV Programs. To participate in Title IV Programs, each of our schools must receive and maintain authorization by the applicable education agencies in the state in which each school is physically located, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by the DOE and be certified as an eligible institution by the DOE. These regulatory requirements cover the vast majority of our operations, including our educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations and financial condition. These regulatory requirements also affect our ability to acquire or open additional schools, add new educational programs, expand existing educational programs, and change our corporate structure and ownership. If any of our schools fails to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the school and its related main campus and/or additional locations could be subject to the loss of state licensure or accreditation, the loss of eligibility to participate in and receive funds under the Title IV Programs, the loss of the ability to grant degrees, diplomas and certificates, provisional certification, or the imposition of liabilities or monetary penalties, each of which could adversely affect our revenues and impose significant operating restrictions upon us. In addition, the loss by any of our schools of its accreditation, its state authorization or license, or its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs constitutes an event of default under our credit agreement, which we and our subsidiaries entered into with a syndicate of banks on February 15, 2005, which could result in the acceleration of all amounts then outstanding under our credit agreement. The various regulatory agencies periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements and restrictions. We cannot predict with certainty how any of these regulatory requirements will be applied or whether each of our schools will be able to comply with these requirements or any additional requirements instituted in the future. If we or our eligible institutions do not meet the financial responsibility standards prescribed by the DOE, as has occurred in the past, we may be required to post letters of credit or our eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs could be terminated or limited, which could significantly reduce our student population and revenues. To participate in Title IV Programs, an eligible institution must satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by the DOE or post a letter of credit in favor of the DOE and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV Programs. Any obligation to post one or more letters of credit would increase our costs of regulatory compliance. Our inability to obtain a required letter of credit or limitations on, or termination of, our participation in Title IV Programs could limit our students' access to various government-sponsored student financial aid programs, which could significantly reduce our student population and revenues. 23 Each year, based on the financial information submitted by an eligible institution that participates in Title IV Programs, the DOE calculates three financial ratios for the institution: an equity ratio, a primary reserve ratio and a net income ratio. Each of these ratios is scored separately and then combined into a composite score to measure the institution's financial responsibility. As a result of the corrections of certain errors, including accounting for advertising costs, a sale leaseback transaction, rent and certain other individually insignificant adjustments, in our prior financial statements, the DOE recomputed our consolidated composite scores for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2002 and concluded that the recomputed consolidated composite scores for those two years were below 1.0. In addition, we identified certain additional errors in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2003 relating to our accounting for stock-based compensation and accrued bonuses that did not result in a recomputation of our 2003 composite score. The DOE has informed us that as a result, for a period of three years effective December 30, 2004, all of our current and future institutions have been placed on "Heightened Cash Monitoring, Type 1 status," a less favorable Title IV fund payment system that requires us to credit student accounts before drawing down Title IV funds and to timely notify the DOE with respect to certain enumerated oversight and financial events. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may lose our eligibility for continued participation in Title IV Programs or may be required to post irrevocable letters of credit. We expect that the DOE will also consider our audited financial statements and composite scores for our most recent fiscal year as well as for other fiscal years after 2001 and 2002 when each of our institutions is next required to apply for recertification to participate in Title IV Programs. Additionally, since the DOE concluded that the previously computed composite scores for 2001 and 2002 were overstated, we agreed to pay $165,000 to the DOE pursuant to a settlement agreement with respect to compliance issues related to this matter. We paid this amount on March 3, 2005. Based on our calculation the 2005 financial statements reflect a composite score of 2.5. If we fail to demonstrate "administrative capability" to the DOE, our business could suffer. DOE regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite "administrative capability" to participate in Title IV Programs. These criteria require, among other things, that the institution: o Comply with all applicable Title IV regulations; o Have capable and sufficient personnel to administer Title IV Programs; o Have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its students;o Provide financial aid counseling to its students; o Provide financial aid counselling to its students; and o Submit in a timely manner all reports and financial statements required by the regulations. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria or any other DOE regulation, the DOE may: o Require the repayment of Title IV funds; o Impose a less favorable payment system for the institution's receipt of Title IV funds; o Place the institution on provisional certification status; or o Commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV Programs. If we are found not to have satisfied the DOE's "administrative capability" requirements, one or more of our institutions, including its additional locations, could be limited in its access to, or lose, Title IV Program funding. A decrease in Title IV funding could adversely affect our revenues, as we received approximately 80% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis of accounting) from Title IV Programs in 2005. We are subject to fines and other sanctions if we pay impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments to individuals involved in certain recruiting, admissions or financial aid activities, which could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations. A school participating in Title IV Programs may not provide any commission, bonus or other incentive payment based on success in enrolling students or securing financial aid to any person involved in any student recruiting or admission activities or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV Program funds. The law and regulations governing this requirement do not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances. If we are 24 found to have violated this law, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by the DOE or we could face litigation filed under the qui tam provisions of the Federal False Claims Act. If our schools do not maintain their state authorizations and their accreditation, they may not participate in Title IV Programs, which could adversely affect our student population and revenues. An institution that grants degrees, diplomas or certificates must be authorized by the appropriate education agency of the state in which it is located and, in some cases, other states. Requirements for authorization vary substantially among states. The school must be authorized by each state in which it is physically located in order for its students to be eligible for funding under Title IV Programs. Loss of state authorization by any of our schools from the education agency of the state in which the school is located would end that school's eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs and could cause us to close the school. A school must be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by the DOE in order to participate in Title IV Programs. Accreditation is a non-governmental process through which an institution submits to qualitative review by an organization of peer institutions, based on the standards of the accrediting agency and the stated aims and purposes of the institution, including achieving and maintaining stringent retention, completion and placement outcomes. Certain states require institutions to maintain accreditation as a condition of continued authorization to grant degrees. The Higher Education Act requires accrediting commissions recognized by the DOE to review and monitor many aspects of an institution's operations and to take appropriate disciplinary action when the institution fails to comply with the accrediting agency's standards. Loss of accreditation by any of our main campuses would result in the termination of eligibility of that school and all of its branch campuses to participate in Title IV Programs and could cause us to close the school and its branches. Our institutions would lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if the percentage of their revenues derived from those programs were too high, which could reduce our student population and revenues. Each of our institutions would immediately lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if it derived more than 90% of its revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from those programs in any fiscal year as calculated in accordance with DOE regulations. Any institution that violates this rule is ineligible to apply to regain its eligibility until the following fiscal year. Based on our calculations, none of our institutions received more than 90% of its revenues in fiscal year 2005, and our institution with the highest percentage received approximately 86.4% of its revenues, from Title IV Programs. If any of our institutions loses eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, that loss would cause an event of default under our credit agreement, which could result in the acceleration of any indebtedness then outstanding under our credit agreement, and would also adversely affect our students' access to various government-sponsored student financial aid programs, which could reduce our student population and revenues. These calculations are required to be made on a cash basis of accounting. Our institutions would lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if their former students defaulted on repayment of their federal student loans in excess of specified levels, which could reduce our student population and revenues. An institution of higher education, such as each of our institutions, loses its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV Programs if its former students default on the repayment of their federal student loans in excess of specified levels. If any of our institutions exceeds the official student loan default rates published by the DOE, it will lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs. That loss would adversely affect our students' access to various government-sponsored student financial aid programs, which could reduce our student population and revenues. We are subject to sanctions if we fail to correctly calculate and timely return Title IV Program funds for students who withdraw before completing their educational program, which could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and decrease our profit margin. An institution participating in Title IV Programs must correctly calculate the amount of unearned Title IV Program funds that have been credited to students who withdraw from their educational programs before completing them and must return those unearned funds in a timely manner, generally within 30 days of the date the institution 25 determines that the student has withdrawn. If the unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, we may have to post a letter of credit in favor of the DOE or may be otherwise sanctioned by the DOE, which could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations. One of our schools, Southwestern College, made late returns of Title IV Program funds in excess of the DOE's prescribed threshold. As a result, in accordance with DOE regulations, we submitted a letter of credit in favor of the DOE in the amount of $28,400. Another of our schools, Nashville Auto-Diesel College, made late returns of Title IV Program funds in excess of the DOE's prescribed threshold during periods that predated our acquisition of that school. As a result, in accordance with DOE regulations, we submitted a letter of credit in favor of the DOE in the amount of $327,000. Based on the absence of late returns of Title IV Program funds in excess of the DOE's prescribed thresholds in Nashville Auto-Diesel College's compliance audits for the 2002 fiscal year after our acquisition and for the 2003 fiscal year, we were allowed to have this letter of credit expire in accordance with its terms in March 2004. We could be required to provide letters of credit in favor of the DOE in the future if any of our institutions makes late returns of Title IV Program funds in excess of the DOE's prescribed thresholds, which could increase our cost of regulatory compliance. If regulators do not approve our acquisition of a school that participates in Title IV Programs, the acquired school would no longer be permitted to participate in Title IV Programs, which could impair our ability to operate the acquired school as planned or to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of that school. If we acquire a school that participates in Title IV Programs, we must obtain approval from the DOE and applicable state education agencies and accrediting commissions in order for the school to be able to continue operating and participating in Title IV Programs. An acquisition can result in the temporary suspension of the acquired school's participation in Title IV Programs unless we submit to the DOE a timely and materially complete application for recertification and the DOE issues a temporary provisional program participation agreement. If we were unable to timely re-establish the state authorization, accreditation or DOE certification of the acquired school, our ability to operate the acquired school as planned or to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of that school could be impaired. Southwestern College received an executed provisional program participation agreement from the DOE. In connection with our acquisition of New England Technical Institute, that institution received an executed temporary provision program participation agreement. We are in the process of obtaining final approval of that acquisition from the DOE. We expect the DOE approval issued to New England Technical Institute at the conclusion of the pending change in ownership approval process to be provisional. If regulators do not approve or delay their approval of transactions involving a change of control of our company or any of our schools, our ability to participate in Title IV Programs may be impaired. If we or any of our schools experience a change of control under the standards of applicable state education agencies, our accrediting commissions or the DOE, we or the affected schools must seek the approval of the relevant regulatory agencies in order for us or the acquired school to participate in Title IV Programs. Transactions or events that constitute a change of control include significant acquisitions or dispositions of our common stock or significant changes in the composition of our board of directors. Some of these transactions or events may be beyond our control. Our failure to obtain, or a delay in receiving, approval of any change of control from any state in which our schools are located or other states as the case may be, our accrediting commissions or the DOE could impair or result in the termination of our accreditation, state licensure or ability to participate in Title IV Programs. Our failure to obtain, or a delay in obtaining, approval of any change of control from any state in which we do not have a school but in which we recruit students could require us to suspend our recruitment of students in that state until we receive the required approval. The potential adverse effects of a change of control with respect to participation in Title IV Programs could influence future decisions by us and our stockholders regarding the sale, purchase, transfer, issuance or redemption of our stock. In addition, the adverse regulatory effect of a change of control also could discourage bids for your shares of our common stock and could have an adverse effect on the market price of your shares. 26 Congress may change the law or reduce funding for Title IV Programs, which could reduce our student population, revenues or profit margin. Congress periodically revises the Higher Education Act and other laws governing Title IV Programs and annually determines the funding level for each Title IV Program. Recently, Congress temporarily extended the provisions of the Higher Education Act, or HEA, pending completion of the formal reauthorization process. In February 2006, Congress enacted the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, which contained a number of provisions affecting Title IV Programs, including some provisions that had been in the HEA reauthorization bills. We believe that, in 2006, Congress will either complete the reauthorization of the HEA or further extend additional provisions of the HEA. Numerous changes to the HEA are likely to result from any further reauthorization and, possibly, from any extension of the remaining provisions of the HEA, but at this time we cannot predict all of the changes the Congress will ultimately make. Approximately 80% of our revenues in 2005 (calculated on a cash basis of accounting) were derived from Title IV programs. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces funding for Title IV Programs or the ability of our schools or students to receive funding through these programs could reduce our student population and revenues. Congressional action may also require us to modify our practices in ways that could result in increased administrative costs and decreased profit margin. In addition current requirements for student and school participation in Title IV Programs may change or one or more of the present Title IV Programs could be replaced by other programs with materially different student or school eligibility requirements. If we cannot comply with the provisions of the Higher Education Act, as they may be revised, or if the cost of such compliance is excessive, our revenues or profit margin could be adversely affected. Regulatory agencies or third parties may conduct compliance reviews, bring claims or initiate litigation against us. If the results of these reviews or claims are unfavorable to us, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we are subject to compliance reviews and claims of noncompliance and lawsuits by government agencies and third parties. If the results of these reviews or proceedings are unfavorable to us, or if we are unable to defend successfully against third-party lawsuits or claims, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, limitations on the operations of our business, loss of federal funding, injunctions or other penalties. Even if we adequately address issues raised by an agency review or successfully defend a third-party lawsuit or claim, we may have to divert significant financial and management resources from our ongoing business operations to address issues raised by those reviews or defend those lawsuits or claims. The DOE conducted a program review at DADC and issued an initial program review report in which it identified potential instances of noncompliance with DOE requirements. DADC has submitted an initial response to the report and is waiting for a response or determination from the DOE. Risks Related to Our Business - ----------------------------- If we fail to effectively manage our growth, we may incur higher costs and expenses than we anticipate in connection with our growth. We have experienced a period of significant growth since 1999. Our continued growth has strained and may in the future strain our management, operations, employees or other resources. We will need to continue to assess the adequacy of our staff, controls and procedures to meet the demands of our continued growth. We may not be able to maintain or accelerate our current growth rate, effectively manage our expanding operations or achieve planned growth on a timely or profitable basis. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively while maintaining appropriate internal controls, we may experience operating inefficiencies that likely will increase our expected costs. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquisitions into our business, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Since 1999, we have acquired a number of schools and we may continue to grow our business through acquisitions. The anticipated benefits of an acquisition may not be achieved unless we successfully integrate the acquired school or schools into our operations and are able to effectively manage, market and apply our business strategy to any 27 acquired schools. Integration challenges include, among others, regulatory approvals, significant capital expenditures, assumption of known and unknown liabilities and our ability to control costs. The successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the senior management of the acquired schools, which could decrease the time that they devote to the day-to-day management of our business. The difficulties of integration may initially be increased by the necessity of integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and corporate cultures. Management's focus on the integration of acquired schools and on the application of our business strategy to those schools could interrupt or cause loss of momentum in our other ongoing activities. Failure on our part to establish and operate additional schools or campuses or effectively identify suitable expansion opportunities could reduce our ability to implement our growth strategy. As part of our business strategy, we anticipate opening and operating new schools or campuses. Establishing new schools or campuses poses unique challenges and requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing expenses and devote other resources that are different, and in some cases greater than those required with respect to the operation of acquired schools. To open a new school or campus, we would be required to obtain appropriate state and accrediting commission approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. In addition, to be eligible for federal Title IV Program funding, a new school or campus would have to be certified by the DOE and would require federal authorization and approvals. In the case of entirely separate, freestanding U.S. schools, a minimum of two years' operating history is required to be eligible for Title IV Program funding. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify suitable expansion opportunities to maintain or accelerate our current growth rate or that we will be able to successfully integrate or profitably operate any new schools or campuses. Additionally, we began offering online degree completion courses in mid-2004 and we expect to launch our 100% online initiatives in June 2006. We have not previously offered courses online and, accordingly, these programs may not be successful. A failure by us to effectively identify suitable expansion opportunities and to establish and manage the operations of newly established schools or online offerings could slow our growth and make any newly established schools or our online programs unprofitable or more costly to operate than we had planned. Our success depends in part on our ability to update and expand the content of existing programs and develop new programs in a cost-effective manner and on a timely basis. Prospective employers of our graduates increasingly demand that their entry-level employees possess appropriate technological skills. These skills are becoming more sophisticated in line with technological advancements in the automotive, diesel, information technology, or IT, skilled trades and healthcare industries. Accordingly, educational programs at our schools must keep pace with those technological advancements. The expansion of our existing programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by our students, prospective employers or the technical education market. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as our competitors or as quickly as employers demand. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to financial constraints, unusually rapid technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired, our placement rates could suffer and our revenues could be adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to adequately anticipate the requirements of the employers we serve, we may offer programs that do not teach skills useful to prospective employers or students seeking a technical or career-oriented education which could affect our placement rates and our ability to attract and retain students, causing our revenues to be adversely affected. We may not be able to retain our key personnel or hire and retain the personnel we need to sustain and grow our business. Our success has depended, and will continue to depend, largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers who generally have significant experience within the post-secondary education industry. Our success also depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, school directors, administrators and corporate management. Due to the nature of our business, we face significant competition in the attraction and 28 retention of personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave us and subsequently compete against us. Furthermore, we do not currently carry "key man" life insurance on any of our employees. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could have an adverse effect on our ability to operate our business efficiently and to execute our growth strategy. If we are unable to hire, retain and continue to develop and train our employees responsible for student recruitment, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts would be adversely affected. In order to support revenue growth, we need to hire new employees dedicated to student recruitment and retain and continue to develop and train our current student recruitment personnel. Our ability to develop a strong student recruiting team may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to integrate and motivate our student recruiters; our ability to effectively train our student recruiters; the length of time it takes new student recruiters to become productive; regulatory restrictions on the method of compensating student recruiters; the competition in hiring and retaining student recruiters; and our ability to effectively manage a multi-location educational organization. If we are unable to hire, develop or retain our student recruiters, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts would be adversely affected. Competition could decrease our market share and cause us to lower our tuition rates. The post-secondary education market is highly competitive. Our schools compete for students and faculty with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities and other proprietary schools, many of which have greater financial resources than we do. Some traditional public and private colleges and universities, as well as other private career-oriented schools, offer programs that may be perceived by students to be similar to ours. Most public institutions are able to charge lower tuition than our schools, due in part to government subsidies and other financial resources not available to for-profit schools. Some of our competitors also have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have which may, among other things, allow our competitors to secure strategic relationships with some or all of our existing strategic partners or develop other high profile strategic relationships or devote more resources to expanding their programs and their school network, all of which could affect the success of our marketing programs. In addition, some of our competitors already have a more extended or dense network of schools and campuses than we do, enabling them to recruit students more effectively from a wider geographic area. If we are unable to compete effectively with these institutions for students, our student enrollments and revenues will be adversely affected. We may be required to reduce tuition or increase spending in response to competition in order to retain or attract students or pursue new market opportunities. As a result, our market share, revenues and operating margin may be decreased. We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to continue to develop awareness and acceptance of our programs among high school graduates and working adults looking to return to school. The awareness of our programs among high school graduates and working adults looking to return to school is critical to the continued acceptance and growth of our programs. Our inability to continue to develop awareness of our programs could reduce our enrollments and impair our ability to increase our revenues or maintain profitability. The following are some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing our programs: o Student dissatisfaction with our programs and services; o Diminished access to high school student populations; o Our failure to maintain or expand our brand or other factors related to our marketing or advertising practices; and o Our inability to maintain relationships with automotive, diesel, healthcare, skilled trades and IT manufacturers and suppliers. 29 If students fail to pay their outstanding balances, our profitability will be adversely affected. We offer a variety of payment plans to help students pay the portion of their education expense not covered by financial aid programs. These balances are unsecured and not guaranteed. Although we have reserved for estimated losses related to unpaid student balances, losses in excess of the amounts we have reserved for bad debts will result in a reduction in our profitability. An increase in interest rates could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students. Interest rates have reached historical lows in recent years, creating a favorable borrowing environment for our students. Much of the financing our students receive is tied to floating interest rates. Therefore, any future increase in interest rates will result in a corresponding increase in the cost to our existing and prospective students of financing their education, which could result in a reduction in our student population and revenues. Higher interest rates could also contribute to higher default rates with respect to our students' repayment of their education loans. Higher default rates may in turn adversely impact our eligibility for Title IV Program participation, which could result in a reduction in our student population. Seasonal and other fluctuations in our results of operations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our results of operations fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business, principally due to changes in total student population. Student population varies as a result of new student enrollments, graduations and student attrition. Historically, our schools have had lower student populations in our first and second quarters than in the remainder of the year because fewer new students start during the summer months. Our expenses, however, do not generally vary at the same rate as changes in our student population and revenues and, as a result, do not fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. We expect quarterly fluctuations in results of operations to continue as a result of seasonal enrollment patterns. Such patterns may change, however, as a result of acquisitions, new school openings, new program introductions and increased enrollments of adult students. These fluctuations may result in volatility or have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We cannot predict our future capital needs, and if we are unable to secure additional financing when needed, our operations and revenues would be adversely affected. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to fund our operations, expand our markets and program offerings or respond to competitive pressures or perceived opportunities. We cannot be sure that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available when required or on acceptable terms, we may be forced to cease our operations and, even if we are able to continue our operations, our ability to increase student enrollments and revenues would be adversely affected. Our schools' failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations governing our activities could result in financial penalties and other costs which could adversely impact our results of operations. We use hazardous materials at some of our schools and generate small quantities of waste, such as used oil, antifreeze, paint and car batteries. As a result, our schools are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and waste, and the clean-up of contamination at our facilities or off-site locations to which we send or have sent waste for disposal. In the event we do not maintain compliance with any of these laws and regulations, or are responsible for a spill or release of hazardous materials, we could incur significant costs for clean-up, damages, and fines or penalties which could adversely impact our results of operations. 30 Approximately 29% of our schools are concentrated in the states of New Jersey and Pennsylvania and a change in the general economic or regulatory conditions in these states could increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our revenues. As of December 31, 2005, we operated 34 campuses in 15 states. Ten of those schools are located in the states of New Jersey and Pennsylvania. As a result of this geographic concentration, any material change in general economic conditions in New Jersey or Pennsylvania could reduce our student enrollment in our schools located in these states and thereby reduce our revenues. In addition, the legislatures in the states of New Jersey and/or Pennsylvania could change the laws in those states or adopt regulations regarding private, for-profit post-secondary coeducation institutions which could place additional burdens on us. If we were unable to comply with any such new legislation, we could be prohibited from operating in those jurisdictions, which could reduce our revenues. The number of lenders and financial institutions that make federally guaranteed student loans and that guarantee Title IV loans is relatively small. The loss of any of these lenders or guarantors could cause a material adverse effect on our revenues. In 2005, seven lenders provided funding to more than 97% of the students at the schools we owned. While we believe that other lenders would be willing to make federally guaranteed student loans to our students if loans were no longer available from our current lenders, we cannot assure you that there are other lenders who would make federally guaranteed loans to our students. If such alternative lenders were not forthcoming, our enrollment and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the primary guarantors for the Title IV loans of our students are USA Group, a subsidiary of Sallie Mae, and New Jersey Higher Education Assistance Authority, an independent agency of the State of New Jersey. These two agencies currently guarantee a majority of the federally guaranteed student loans made to students enrolled at our schools. There are six other guaranty agencies that guarantee student loans made to students enrolled at our schools. We believe that other guaranty agencies would be willing to guarantee loans to our students if any of these guarantee agencies ceased guaranteeing those loans or reduced the volume of loans they guarantee; however, if we cannot find other guarantors, our enrollment and our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and New Jersey law could discourage a change of control that our stockholders may favor, which could negatively affect our stock price. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws and applicable provisions of the New Jersey Business Corporation Act may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. For example, applicable provisions of the New Jersey Business Corporation Act may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of five years after the person becomes an interested stockholder. Furthermore, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws: o authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; o prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow holders of less than a majority of stock to elect some directors; o require super-majority voting to effect amendments to certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation; o limit who may call special meetings of both the board of directors and stockholders; 31 o prohibit stockholder action by non-unanimous written consent and otherwise require all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; o establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholders' meetings; and o require that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly created directorships, be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office. We can issue shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval, which could adversely affect the rights of common stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation permits us to establish the rights, privileges, preferences and restrictions, including voting rights, of future series of our preferred stock and to issue such stock without approval from our stockholders. The rights of holders of our common stock may suffer as a result of the rights granted to holders of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, we could issue preferred stock to prevent a change in control of our company, depriving common stockholders of an opportunity to sell their stock at a price in excess of the prevailing market price. Our principal stockholder owns a large percentage of our voting stock which allows it to control substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval. Stonington Partners Inc. II, or Stonington, our principal stockholder, directly or indirectly holds approximately 72% of our outstanding shares. Accordingly, it controls us through its ability to determine the outcome of the election of our directors, to amend our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and to take other actions requiring the vote or consent of stockholders, including mergers, going private transactions and other extraordinary transactions, and the terms of any of these transactions. The ownership positions of this stockholder may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or a change in the composition of our board of directors. In addition, two members of our board of directors are partners of Stonington. As a result, Stonington has an added ability to influence certain matters, such as determining compensation of our executive officers. 32 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS ------------------------- Not applicable. 