ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Liquidity in the capital markets is essential to our businesses and future growth and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. We have limited liquidity and we may be required to pursue certain measures in order to maintain or enhance our liquidity. Liquidity is essential to our business and our ability to operate and grow and to fund existing obligations. A primary source of liquidity for us has been the equity and debt capital markets, including issuing common equity, perpetual preferred equity and trust preferred securities. We depend on external financing to fund the growth of our business mainly because, as a REIT, we are required under the Internal Revenue Code to distribute 90% of our taxable income to our stockholders, including taxable income where we do not receive corresponding cash. Our access to equity or debt financing depends on the willingness of third parties to make equity investments in us and provide us with corporate level debt. It also depends on conditions in the capital markets generally. Companies in the real estate industry, including us, are currently experiencing, and have at times historically experienced, limited availability of capital, and new capital sources may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our ability to raise capital could be impaired if the capital markets have a negative perception of our long-term and short-term financial prospects or the prospects for mortgage REITs and the commercial real estate market generally. We cannot be certain that sufficient funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. If we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, or at all, we will not be able to operate and/or grow our business, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In such an instance, a lack of sufficient liquidity would have a material adverse impact on our operations, cash flow, financial condition and our ability to continue as a going concern. Currently, we have limited liquidity. As of December 31, 2009, our unrestricted cash balance was $138.3 million. We currently do not have a corporate credit facility to draw against for liquidity purposes. We may be required to pursue certain measures in order to maintain or enhance our liquidity, including seeking the extension or replacement of our debt facilities, potentially selling assets at unfavorable prices and/or reducing our operating expenses. Sales of assets held in the CDOs do not generate unrestricted cash or further liquidity for us because proceeds from CDO asset sales are restricted and available only for reinvestment within the CDOs during the applicable reinvestment period and subject to compliance with various collateral qualification tests. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in measures to improve our liquidity. For information about our available sources of funds, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” and the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain of our outstanding mortgage and mezzanine loans in Gramercy Realty will mature in March 2011. There is no guarantee that we will be able to refinance all or any portion of indebtedness under these loans prior to maturity. In the event we are only able to refinance a portion of the loans, we would be required to pay a shortfall between the amount refinanced and the principal of the loans. We may not have sufficient capital to satisfy the shortfall, and failure to refinance the entire loans or satisfy the shortfall would subject us to risk of default or foreclosure of underlying property collateral which consists of substantially all of Gramercy Realty assets. Each of our $241.3 million mortgage loan with Goldman Sachs Commercial Mortgage Capital, L.P., or GSCMC, Citicorp North America, Inc., or Citicorp, and SL Green, or the Goldman Mortgage Loan, and our $553.5 million senior and junior mezzanine loans with GSCMC, Citicorp, KBS Real Estate Investment Trust, Inc. and SL Green, or the Goldman Mezzanine Loans, collateralized by substantially all the properties held by Gramercy Realty and our equity interest in the entities comprising our Gramercy Realty division, will mature in March 2011. These loans were extended from its original maturity in March 2010 when we entered into amendments to these loans. We likely will be unable to refinance the entire amount of indebtedness under the Goldman Mortgage Loan and the Goldman Mezzanine Loans prior to their final maturity. In the event we are unable to refinance the entire outstanding principal of the Goldman Mortgage Loan and the Goldman 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS Mezzanine Loans, we will be required to pay the shortfall between the amount we can refinance (if we can at all) and the principal balance. There is no guarantee we will be able to refinance these loans on favorable terms, or at all. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient capital to satisfy the shortfall, and failure to do so would subject us to risk of default under the Goldman Mortgage Loan and the Goldman Mezzanine Loans. A default could result in the foreclosure of the underlying collateral which consists of all of the Gramercy Realty properties and/or our equity interests in the entities that comprise our Gramercy Realty division collateralizing these loans, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A loss of the Gramercy Realty portfolio in such circumstances would trigger a substantial book loss to us and would likely result in our company having negative book value. We utilize a significant amount of debt to finance our portfolios of debt investments and real estate investments, which may subject us to an increased risk of loss, adversely affecting the return on our investments and reducing cash available for distribution. We utilize a significant amount of debt to finance our operations, which can compound losses and reduce the cash available for distributions to our stockholders. We generally leverage our portfolios through the use of securitizations, including the issuance of CDOs, mortgage and mezzanine borrowings and other borrowings. The leverage we employ varies depending on our ability to obtain financing, the loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios of our assets, the yield on our assets, the targeted leveraged return we expect from our portfolios and our ability to meet ongoing covenants related to our asset mix and financial performance. Currently, neither our charter nor our bylaws impose any limitations on the extent to which we may leverage our assets. Substantially all of our assets are pledged, as collateral for our secured borrowings. Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that we can derive from the assets we acquire. For example, we have purchased, and may purchase in the future, both subordinate classes of bonds and certain investment grade classes of bonds in our CDOs which represent leveraged investments in the collateral debt securities and other underlying assets. The use of leverage through such CDOs creates the risk for the holders of these classes of bonds of increased exposure to losses on a leveraged basis as a result of defaults with respect to such collateral debt securities. As a result, the occurrence of defaults with respect to only a small portion of the collateral debt securities could result in the complete loss of the investment of the holders of the subordinate classes of bonds and defaults with respect to larger or a material portion of the collateral debt securities could result in complete or partial losses of the investment of the holders of certain investment grade classes of bond. Our debt service payments, including payments in connection with any CDOs, reduce our net income available for distributions. Moreover, we may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy our debt obligations. Additionally, our ability to make scheduled payments of principal or interest on, or to refinance, our indebtedness depends on our future performance, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. In particular, the current credit crisis, which began in earnest in mid-2007 and spread throughout the global economy in 2008, 2009, and 2010 to date has materially impacted our business. The credit crisis has, among other things, increased our costs of funds, eliminated our access to the unsecured debt markets and adversely affected our results of operations. Our outstanding debt contains restrictive covenants relating to our operations. When we obtain financing, lenders may impose restrictions on us that affect our ability to incur additional debt, our capability to make distributions to stockholders and our flexibility to determine our operating policies. Loan documents may contain negative covenants that could limit, among other things, our ability to repurchase stock, distribute more than a certain amount of our funds from operations and employ leverage beyond certain amounts. Loan documents also may require compliance with various financial covenants, including minimum liquidity and net worth as well as specified financial ratios such as fixed charge coverage, unencumbered assets to unsecured indebtedness, leverage and debt service coverage. A breach of financial covenants could result in an acceleration of our debt if a waiver or modification is not agreed upon with the lenders, and our ability to continue as a going concern would be affected. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS As a result of the credit crisis, our financial performance and credit metrics have put pressure on our ability to meet financial covenants in certain of our mortgage and other debt financings. While we were in compliance with our covenants as of December 31, 2009, we cannot be certain we will continue to be in compliance in the future. Failure to comply with CDO coverage tests may have a negative impact on our liquidity and net cash flows. The terms of our CDOs include certain over-collateralization and interest coverage tests, which are used primarily to determine whether and to what extent principal and interest paid on the debt securities and other assets that serve as collateral underlying the CDOs may be used to pay principal and interest on the various classes of notes payable issued by the CDOs. If any of the various CDO tests are not satisfied, distributions that we currently receive with respect to our equity interests in the CDOs, interest and principal payments that we currently receive on certain of the tranches of CDO notes that we hold, as well as the subordinate management fees that we currently receive, will instead be redirected to pay principal on certain senior tranches of CDO notes that are not held by us. Because a material portion of our net cash flow in 2009 came from our CDOs, failure to satisfy the CDO tests could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and net cash flows. Our 2007 CDO failed its over-collaterization tests at the November 2009 distribution date and we do not expect it to regain compliance in 2010. Although our 2005 and 2006 CDOs were in compliance with their CDO tests as of December 31, 2009, the compliance margin, particularly with respect to the 2005 CDO, was thin and relatively small declines in performance and credit metrics could cause those CDOs to fall out of compliance in the future. We cannot be certain that the CDO tests will continue to be satisfied, and that we will continue to receive cash flows relating to our CDOs in the future. If the cash flow from both our 2005 and 2006 CDOs is redirected, our business, financial condition, and results of operations and our ability to continue as a going concern would be materially and adversely affected. Apart from over-collateralization and interest coverage tests, the operative documents for the CDOs provide for certain events of default, the occurrence of which would entitle a senior class or classes of notes payable to accelerate the notes payable of such CDO and, depending upon the circumstances, require a liquidation of the collateral under then-current market conditions, which could result in higher levels of losses on the collateral and the notes payable of such CDO than might otherwise occur. Additionally, we could, in certain instances, be removed as the collateral manager of our CDOs, which could result in a loss of the collateral management fees, which are remitted to us by our CDOs. If we were removed as collateral manager or as special servicer of our CDOs, a different collateral manager or special servicer appointed by the holders of the senior class or classes of notes may manage the CDO or service the notes in a manner that is not in our best interests as holder of the equity and subordinated classes of CDO securities. Our CDOs could continue to generate taxable income for us despite the fact that if in the future we are not receiving cash distributions on our equity and subordinated note holdings from these CDOs. Should this occur, taxable income would continue to be recognized on each underlying investment in the relevant CDO. We would continue to be required to distribute 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined with regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding net capital gain) from these transactions to continue to qualify as a REIT, despite the fact that we are not receiving cash distributions on our equity and subordinated note holdings from these CDOs. The reinvestment periods for our CDOs will expire in 2010, 2011 and 2012. The period during which we are permitted to reinvest principal payments on the underlying assets into qualifying replacement collateral for one of our CDOs will expire in July 2010 and will expire for our other two CDOs in July 2011 and August 2012, respectively. In the past, our ability to reinvest has been instrumental in maintaining compliance with the over-collateralization and interest coverage tests for our CDOs. Following the conclusion of the reinvestment period in one of our CDOs, our ability to maintain compliance with such tests for that CDO will be negatively impacted. Potential rating agency downgrades may adversely affect our ability to reinvest CDO proceeds. To date, rating agency downgrades and impairments of our loan investments and CMBS investments have not impeded our right to reinvest CDO proceeds as provided in the operative CDO documents. However, 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS there can be no assurance that our right to reinvest CDO proceeds will not be impaired by future rating agency downgrades or investment impairments and, in such event, the cash flows that otherwise would have been payable to us, as the holder of certain junior and senior tranches of notes payable issued by our CDOs, may, depending on circumstances, instead be redirected to pay principal and interest on the most senior tranches of notes payable issued by our CDOs, which are owned by third parties. As a result, such downgrades could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and business. Our mortgage and mezzanine loans contain cross-default provisions. Certain of our mortgage and mezzanine loan agreements contain cross-default provisions whereby a default under one agreement could result in a default and acceleration of indebtedness under other agreements. If a cross-default were to occur, we may not be able to pay our debts or access capital from external sources in order to refinance our debts. If some or all of our debt obligations default and it causes a default under other indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected and our ability to continue as a going concern would be affected. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds or obtain financing for future capital commitments, we may not be able to repay indebtedness or fund our other liquidity needs, which could have a material adverse effect on us. At December 31, 2009, we had future funding commitments of approximately $27.7 million related to real estate debt investments we held. Additionally, with respect to our owned real estate investments, our leases and debt agreements typically require us as landlord and borrower to maintain our properties in good operating condition, which often involves capital expenditures. Our ability to fund future capital commitments and capital expenditures will depend, to a certain extent, on general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that may be beyond our control. We cannot be certain that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that we will be able to raise funds in the capital markets or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient, if at all, to enable to us to fund our liquidity needs. Our inability to fund future commitments or required capital expenditures on our owned real estate investments may cause borrowers, tenants or lenders to take legal action against us, which could have a material adverse effect on us. For more information on our contractual commitments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Contractual Obligations” and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We presently have virtually no additional borrowing capacity. We currently do not have a corporate credit facility to draw against for liquidity purposes and substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral for our secured borrowings. As a result, we must fund future funding commitments and capital expenditures with existing liquidity, including unrestricted cash and cash in our CDOs, or future liquidity resulting from asset sales, which will have a significant impact on our liquidity position. If we are unable to meet future funding commitments or fund required capital expenditures, our borrowers or tenants may take legal action against us, which could have a material adverse effect. We have incurred substantial impairments of our assets and may incur significant loan loss reserves/impairments in the future. Due to a variety of factors, including current adverse market conditions affecting the real estate market, we have recorded substantial loan loss provisions. For the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we recorded approximately $517.8 million and $97.9 million, respectively, in loan loss provisions and impairment losses related to our investments. Our debt investments and real estate investments may suffer additional loan loss provisions/impairments in the future causing us to recognize significant losses. If we are unsuccessful in renegotiating, selling or otherwise resolving assets that are currently nonperforming or that we expect will become nonperforming, we may experience loss of principal or reduced income available for distributions. Investors and lenders alike could lose confidence in the quality and value of our assets. These impairments, or the perception that these impairments may occur, can depress our stock price, harm our liquidity and materially adversely impact our results of operations. We may be forced to sell substantial assets at a time when the market is depressed in order to support or enhance our liquidity. Despite our need to sell substantial 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS assets, we may be unable to make such sales on favorable terms or at all, further materially damaging our liquidity and operations. If we are unable to maintain adequate liquidity as a result of these impairments or otherwise, our ability to continue as a going concern would be affected and you could lose some or all of your investment. Our reserves for loan losses may prove inadequate, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We maintain and regularly evaluate financial reserves to protect against potential future losses. Our reserves reflect management’s judgment of the probability and severity of losses. We cannot be certain that our judgment will prove to be correct and that reserves will be adequate over time to protect against potential future losses because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific assets, borrowers, industries in which our borrowers operate or markets in which our borrowers or their properties are located. We must evaluate existing conditions on our debt investments to make determinations to take loan loss reserves on these specific investments. If our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate, we could suffer losses which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Higher loan loss reserves are expected if economic conditions do not improve. If the decline in the U.S. and global economies do not stabilize and reverse, we will likely continue to experience loan loss reserves, potential defaults and asset impairment charges in 2010. Borrowers may also be less able to pay principal and interest on loans if the economy continues to weaken and they continue to experience financial stress. Declining real property values also would increase loan-to-value ratios on our loans and, therefore, weaken our collateral coverage and increase the likelihood of higher loan loss reserves. Any sustained period of increased defaults and foreclosures would adversely affect our interest income, financial condition, business prospects and our cash flows. Loan loss reserves are particularly difficult to estimate in a turbulent economic environment. Our loan loss reserves are evaluated on a quarterly basis. Our determination of loan loss reserves requires us to make certain estimates and judgments, which are particularly difficult to determine during a recession where commercial real estate credit has been nearly shut off and commercial real estate transactions have dramatically decreased. Our estimates and judgments are based on a number of factors, including projected cash flows from the collateral securing our commercial real estate loans, loan structure, including the availability of reserves and recourse guarantees, likelihood of repayment in full at the maturity of a loan, potential for a refinancing market returning to commercial real estate in the future and expected market discount rates for varying property types. If our estimates and judgments are not correct, our results of operations and financial condition could be severely impacted. The current weakness in the financial markets could adversely affect us or one or more of our lenders, which could result in increases in our borrowing costs, reduction in our liquidity and reductions in the value of the investments in our portfolio. The continuing dislocations in the financial markets have adversely affected our counterparties providing funding for our loan or CMBS investments or real estate assets, and could cause such counterparties to be unwilling or unable to provide us with additional financing. This could potentially limit our ability to finance our investments and operations, increase our financing costs and reduce our liquidity. If one or more major market participants fails or withdraws from the market, it could negatively impact the marketability of all fixed income securities, and this could reduce the value of the securities in our portfolio, thus reducing our net book value. Furthermore, if our counterparties are unwilling to or unable to provide us with financing, we could be forced to sell our investments at a time when prices are depressed. If this were to occur, it could prevent us from complying with the REIT asset and income tests necessary to fulfill our REIT qualification requirements or could cause us not to qualify for an exemption from the Investment Company Act, and otherwise materially harm our results of operation and financial outlook. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS There can be no assurance that the actions of the U.S. government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets, or market response to those actions, will achieve the intended effect and our business may not benefit from, and may be adversely impacted by, these actions and further government or market developments could adversely impact us. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all assets classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in the financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. The decline in asset values has caused increases in margin calls for investors, requirements that derivatives counterparties post additional collateral and redemptions by mutual and hedge fund investors, all of which have creased the downward pressure on asset values and outflows of client funds across the financial services industry. In addition, the increased redemptions and unavailability of credit have required hedge funds and others to rapidly reduce leverage, which has increased volatility and further contributed to the decline of asset values. In response to the recent unprecedented financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or the EESA, was signed into law on October 3, 2008. The EESA provides the U.S. Secretary of Treasury with the authority to establish a Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, to purchase from financial institutions up to $700 billion of residential or commercial mortgages and any securities, obligations, or other instruments that are based on, or related to, such mortgages, that in each case was originated or issued on or before March 14, 2008. The ESSA also provides for a program that would allow companies to insure their troubled assets. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or ARRA, a $787 billion stimulus bill for the purpose of stabilizing the economy by creating jobs among other things. As of February 12, 2010, the U.S. Treasury is managing or overseeing the following programs under TARP: the Capital Purchase Program, the Systemically Failing Institutions Program, the Auto Industry Financing Program and the Homeowner Affordability, the Legacy Public-Private Investment Program, and Stability Plan, which is partially financed by TARP. These can be no assurance that the EESA, TARP or other programs will have a beneficial impact on the financial markets, including current extreme levels of volatility. In addition, the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are required to make a number of judgments in applying accounting policies and different estimates and assumptions in the application of these policies could result in changes to our reporting of financial condition and results of operations. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change relate to the determination for loan losses, the effectiveness of derivatives and other hedging activities, the fair value of certain financial instruments (debt obligations, CMBS, loan assets, securities, derivatives, and privately held investments), CTL investments, deferred income tax assets or liabilities, share-based compensation, and accounting for acquisitions, including the fair value determinations and the analysis of goodwill impairment. While we have identified those accounting policies that are considered critical and have procedures in place to facilitate the associated judgments, different assumptions in the application of these policies could result in material changes to our reports of financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. We rely on a small number of persons who comprise our existing senior management team to implement our business and investment strategies. While we have entered into employment agreements with certain member of our senior management team, they may nevertheless cease to provide services to us at any time. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS The loss of services of any of our key management personnel, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business. Quarterly results may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future quarterly performance. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate; therefore, you should not rely on past quarterly results to be indicative of our performance in future quarters. Factors that could cause quarterly operating results to fluctuate include, among others, variations in our investment origination volume, loan loss reserves or impairments, loan maturities, variations in the timing of prepayments, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exclusions and exemptions imposes limits on our operations. We believe that there are a number of exclusions and exemptions under the Investment Company Act that may be applicable to us and we have conducted and intend to continue to conduct our operations so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We will either be excluded from the definition of investment company under Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act, by owning or proposing to acquire “investment securities” having a value not exceeding 40% of the value of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. Government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis, or exempted by qualifying for the exemptions from registration provided by Sections 3(c)(5)(C) and/or 3(c)(6) of the Investment Company Act. For example, Section 3(c)(5)(C) exempts from the definition of “investment company” any person who is “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” Additionally, Section 3(c)(6) exempts from the definition of “investment company” any company primarily engaged, directly or through majority-owned subsidiaries, in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate. The assets that we have acquired and may acquire in the future, therefore, are limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the exclusions and exemptions on which we rely. In addition, we could, among other things, be required either (a) to change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (b) to register as an investment company, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business and our ability to pay dividends. To maintain our qualification for an exclusion from registration under the Investment Company Act pursuant to Sections 3(c)(5)(C) and 3(c)(6) at least 55% of our portfolio, or the assets of our majority-owned subsidiaries, must be comprised of qualifying assets under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, and 80% of our portfolio, or the assets of our majority-owned subsidiaries, must be comprised of qualifying assets and real estate-related assets under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act. In addition, we may not issue redeemable securities. To comply with the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exemption, we may from time to time buy RMBS and other qualifying assets. We generally expect that mortgage loans, junior (first loss) interests in whole pool CMBS, CTL and other real property investments, certain distressed debt securities and Tier 1 mezzanine loans to be qualifying assets under the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exemption from the Investment Company Act. Tier 1 mezzanine loans are loans granted to a mezzanine borrower that directly owns interests in the entity that owns the property being financed. The treatment of distressed debt securities as qualifying assets is, and will be, based on the characteristics of the particular type of loan, including its foreclosure rights. Junior (first loss) interests in CMBS pools may constitute qualifying assets under Section 3(c)(5)(C) provided that we have the unilateral right to foreclose, directly or indirectly, on the mortgages in the pool and that we may act as the controlling class or directing holder of the pool. Similarly, subordinate interests in whole loans may constitute qualifying assets under Section 3(c)(5)(C) provided that, among other things, approval rights in connection with any material decisions pertaining to the administration and servicing of the relevant mortgage loan and, in the event that the mortgage loan becomes non-performing, we have effective control over the remedies relating to the enforcement of the loan, including ultimate control of the foreclosure process. We generally do not treat non-Tier 1 mezzanine loans and preferred equity investments as qualifying assets. Although we monitor our portfolio periodically and prior to each origination or acquisition of a new asset or disposition of an existing asset, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain an exclusion or exemption from registration. Further, we may not be able to invest in sufficient qualifying and/or real estate-related assets and future revision or interpretations of the Investment Company Act may cause us to lose our exclusion or exemption or force us to re-evaluate our portfolio and our business strategy. Such 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS changes may prevent us from operating our business successfully. To the extent that the staff of the SEC provides more specific guidance regarding the treatment of assets as qualifying assets or real estate-related assets, we may be required to adjust our investment strategy accordingly. Any additional guidance from the staff of the SEC could provide additional flexibility to us, or it could further inhibit our ability to pursue the investment strategy we have chosen. In consultation with legal and tax advisors, we periodically evaluate our assets, and also evaluate prior to an acquisition or origination the structure of each prospective investment or asset, to determine whether we avoid coming within the definition of investment company in Section 3(a)(1)(C) and/or whether we believe the investment will be a qualifying asset for purposes of maintaining the exemptions found in Sections 3(c)(5)(C) and/or 3(c)(6) from registration under the Investment Company Act. We consult with counsel to verify such determination as appropriate. If we are obligated to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act, including limitations on capital structure, restrictions on specified investments prohibitions on transactions with affiliates, changes in the composition of our board of directors and compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly change our operations. Rapid changes in the values of our CMBS and other real estate related investments may make it more difficult for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT or exemption from the Investment Company Act. If the market value or income potential of our CMBS and other real estate-related investments declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates or other factors, we may need to increase our real estate investments and income and/or liquidate our non-qualifying assets in order to maintain our REIT qualification or exemption from the Investment Company Act. If the decline in real estate asset values and/or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish. This difficulty may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of many of our non-real estate assets. We may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the REIT and Investment Company Act considerations. We may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses. Recent market conditions have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. The models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. In times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. These types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. These changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. In these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. To the extent that we make investments that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. We may experience reductions in portfolio income which would reduce our ability to make distributions over time. Due to our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, if any, to stockholders. We may experience declines in the size of the investment portfolio over time. A 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS reduction in the size of our portfolio would also result in reduced income available for distribution and thereby lessen our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If we fail to achieve adequate operating cash flow, our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected. As a REIT, we must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, if any, to our stockholders, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. Our ability to make and sustain cash distributions is based on many factors, including the return on our investments, operating expense levels and certain restrictions imposed by Maryland law. Some of the factors are beyond our control and a change in any such factor could affect our ability to pay future dividends. No assurance can be given as to our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. The competitive pressures we face as a result of operating in a highly competitive market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The current state of the global credit markets has resulted in a lack of liquidity and significant volatility in the types of asset classes that we have historically invested. These disruptions are currently and are expected to continue to limit our ability and our competitors’ ability to execute on historical investment strategies. Upon the return of liquidity to the credit markets, we expect to continue to encounter significant competition in seeking investments. We have significant competition with respect to our acquisition and origination of assets with many other companies, including other REITs, insurance companies, commercial banks, private investment funds, hedge funds, specialty finance companies and other investors. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. The competitive pressures we face, if not effectively managed, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive origination and investment opportunities and therefore may not be able to identify and pursue opportunities that are consistent with our objectives. Competition may limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us. It may also result in higher prices, lower yields and a narrower spread of yields over our borrowing costs, making it more difficult for us to acquire new investments on attractive terms. In addition, competition for desirable investments could delay the investment in desirable assets, which may in turn reduce our earnings per share and negatively affect our ability to declare distributions to our stockholders. We may change our investment and operational policies without stockholder consent. We may change our investment and operational policies, including our policies with respect to investments, acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the types of investments described in this filing. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations, all of which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the market for our common stock, the industry in which we conduct our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may harm our results of operations and the stockholder’s investment. We cannot assure the stockholders that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the U.S. or U.S. businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact the property underlying our asset-based securities or the securities markets in general. Losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets and economy. Adverse economic conditions could harm the value of our properties, the property underlying our asset-backed securities or the securities markets in general which could harm our operating results and revenues and may result in the volatility of the value of our securities. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are highly dependent on information systems and third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems, some of which are provided by third parties. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Lack of diversification in number of investments increases our dependence on individual investments. If we acquire larger loans or property interests, our portfolio will be concentrated in a smaller number of assets, increasing the risk of loss to stockholders if a default or other problem arises. Alternatively, if through loan repayments, loan resolutions or property sales we reduce the aggregate amount of our debt investment portfolio or our property investment portfolio, and number of investments in either or each, our portfolio may become concentrated in larger assets, thereby reducing the benefits of diversification by geography, property type, tenancy or other measures. Risk Relating to Our Capital Structure and Access to Liquidity The recent downturn in the credit markets has increased the cost of borrowing and has made financing difficult to obtain, which has negatively impacted our business, and may have a material adverse effect on us. Beginning in 2007 and continuing during 2008, 2009 and 2010 to date, the credit and capital markets have been materially impacted. The commercial real estate and mortgage, the asset-backed, corporate and other credit and equity markets have experienced accelerated default rates and declining values. Volatility and risk premiums in most credit and equity markets have increased dramatically while liquidity has decreased. Increasing concerns regarding the U.S. and world economic outlook, such as large asset write-downs at banks, volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, are compounding these issues and risk premiums in most capital markets remain near historical all-time highs. The factors described above have resulted in substantially reduced commercial mortgage loan originations and securitizations, and are precipitating more generalized credit market dislocations and a significant contraction in available credit. As a result, most financial industry participants, including commercial real estate lenders and investors, are finding it difficult to obtain cost-effective debt capital to finance new investment activity or to refinance maturing debt. Due to these conditions, the commercial real estate finance market has experienced higher volatility, reduced liquidity and accelerating default rates. Credit has become more expensive and difficult to obtain for us and our competitors. The cost of financing as well as overall market-demanded risk premiums in commercial lending have increased. Most lenders are imposing more stringent restrictions on the terms of credit and there is a general reduction in the amount of credit available in the markets in which we conduct business. The negative impact on the tightening of the credit markets, further declines in real estate values in the U.S. and continuing credit and liquidity concerns have had a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, there is no assurance that the increased financing costs, financing with increasingly restrictive terms or the increase in risk premiums that are demanded by investors will not have a material impact on our future profitability measures. Our CDO financing agreements may limit our ability to make investments. Each CDO financing that we engage in contains certain eligibility criteria with respect to the collateral that we seek to acquire and sell to the CDO issuer. If the collateral does not meet the eligibility criteria for eligible collateral as set forth in the transaction documents of such CDO transaction, we may not be able to acquire and sell such collateral to the CDO issuer. The inability of the collateral to meet eligibility requirements with respect to our CDOs may limit our ability to execute our business plan. In the event that an investment that we believe is favorable to our company does not meet eligibility requirements for our CDOs, we may be unable to obtain alternative financing for such investment. 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may not be able to issue CDO securities on attractive terms or at all, which may require us to seek more costly financing for our investments or to liquidate assets. Conditions in the capital markets have made the issuance of a CDO unavailable to us. In recent years, we have relied, to a substantial extent, on CDO financings to obtain match funded financing for our investments. Unless and until the market for commercial real estate CDOs recovers, we may be unable to utilize CDOs to finance our investments and we may need to utilize less favorable sources of financing to finance our investments on a long-term basis, if available. If such other forms of long-term financing are unavailable, it may be necessary to fund our investments using shorter-term debt financing, in which case we would not meet our objective of match funding for substantially all of our investments. There can be no assurance as to whether or when demand for commercial real estate CDOs will return or the terms of such securities investors will demand or whether we will be able to issue CDOs to finance our investments on terms beneficial to us. If we issue senior securities we will be exposed to additional restrictive covenants and limitations on our operating flexibility, which could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends. If we decide to issue senior securities in the future, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Holders of senior securities may be granted specific rights, including but not limited to: the right to hold a perfected security interest in certain of our assets, the right to accelerate payments due under the indenture, rights to restrict dividend payments and rights to require approval to sell assets. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. We, and indirectly our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. We may not be able to access financing sources on favorable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and our ability to distribute dividends. We have financed our assets through a variety of means, including mortgages, mezzanine loans, repurchase agreements, secured and unsecured credit facilities, CDOs, other structured financings and junior subordinated debentures. We have also financed our investments in the past through the issuance of trust preferred securities. Our ability to execute this strategy depends on various conditions in the markets for financing in this manner which are beyond our control, including lack of liquidity and wider credit spreads. We cannot be certain that these markets, especially the structured finance markets, will provide an efficient source of long-term financing for our assets. Our ability to finance through CDOs is subject to a level of investor demand which has almost entirely been curtailed. If our strategy is not viable, we will have to attempt to find alternative forms of long-term financing for our assets, such as secured revolving credit facilities and repurchase facilities, if available. This could subject us to more recourse indebtedness and the risk that debt service on less efficient forms of financing would require a larger portion of our cash flows, to service our debt thereby reducing cash available for distribution to our stockholders, funds available for operations as well as for future business opportunities. In addition, we depend upon the availability of adequate financing sources and capital for our operations. As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, if any, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain, to our stockholders and are therefore not able to retain our earnings for new investments. We cannot be certain that any, or sufficient, funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. Furthermore, if the minimum dividend distribution required to maintain our REIT qualification becomes large relative to our cash flow due to our taxable income exceeding our cash flow from operations, then we could be forced to borrow funds, sell assets or raise capital on unfavorable terms, if we are able to at all, in order to maintain our REIT qualification. In the event that we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the market price of our common shares and our ability to distribute dividends. Interest rate fluctuations could reduce our ability to generate income on our investments. The yield on our investments in real estate securities and loans is sensitive to changes in prevailing interest rates and changes in prepayment rates. Changes in interest rates can affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning investments and the 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS interest expense we incur in financing these investments. We tend to price loans at a spread to either United States Treasury obligations, swaps or LIBOR. A decrease in these indexes will lower the yield on our investments, except to the extent certain of our loans contain floors below which the interest rate cannot decline. Conversely, if these indexes rise materially, borrowers may be unable to meet their debt service requirements and borrow the higher-leverage loans that we target. For more information on interest rate risk, see Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase while the interest we earn on our fixed-rate investments would not change, which would adversely affect our profitability. Our operating results depend in large part on differences between the income from our investments, net of financing costs. In most cases, for any period during which our investments are not match-funded, the income from such debt investments will respond more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of our borrowings. Consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may significantly influence our net income. Increases in these rates will tend to decrease our net income and market value of our investments. Interest rate fluctuations resulting in our interest expense exceeding our interest income would result in operating losses for us and may limit or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. For more information on interest rate risk, see Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If credit spreads widen before we obtain long-term financing for our assets, the value of our assets may suffer. We price our assets based on our assumptions about future credit spreads for financing of those assets. We have obtained, and may obtain in the future, longer term financing for our assets using structured financing techniques. Such issuances entail interest rates set at a spread over a certain benchmark, such as the yield on United States Treasury obligations, swaps or LIBOR. If the spread that investors are paying on our current structured finance vehicles and will pay on future structured finance vehicles we may engage in over the benchmark widens and the rates we are charging or will charge on our securitized assets are not increased accordingly, our income may be reduced or we could suffer losses, which could affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Investments Some of our portfolio investments may be recorded at fair value, as a result, there will be uncertainty as to the value of these investments. Changes in the market values of our investments in securities available for sale will be directly charged or credited to stockholders’ equity. As a result, a decline in values may reduce the book value of our assets. Moreover, if the decline in value of a security is other-than-temporary, such decline will reduce earnings. Any such charges may result in volatility in our reported earnings and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Some of our portfolio investments may be in the form of securities, including CMBS, that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We value these investments quarterly. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. We may not realize gains or income from our investments. We seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation. However, our investments may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value, and the debt securities we invest in may default on interest and/or principal payments. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains or income from our investments. Any gains that we do realize may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Any income that we realize may not be sufficient to offset our expenses. 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic changes in geographic areas where our properties are concentrated. Adverse conditions in the areas where our properties or the properties underlying our investments are located (including business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors) and local real estate conditions (such as oversupply of, or reduced demand for, office, industrial or retail properties) may have an adverse effect on the value of our properties. A material decline in the demand or the ability of tenants to pay rent for office, industrial or retail space in these geographic areas may result in a material decline in our cash available for distribution. Joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer’s financial condition. We co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. Therefore, we will not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding that property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals. These investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Consequently, actions by such partner, co-tenant or co-venturer might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. Some of our loans are participation interests in loans, or co-lender arrangements, in which we share the rights, obligations and benefits of the loan with other lenders. We may need the consent of these parties to exercise our rights under such loans, including rights with respect to amendment of loan documentation, enforcement proceedings in the event of default and the institution of, and control over, foreclosure proceedings. Similarly, a majority of the participants may be able to take actions to which we object but to which we will be bound if our participation interest represents a minority interest. We may be adversely affected by this lack of complete control. We may in the future enter, into joint venture agreements that contain terms in favor of our partners that may have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures. For example, we may be entitled under a particular joint venture agreement to an economic share in the profits of the joint venture that is smaller than our ownership percentage in the joint venture, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such profits and our partner may have rights to buy our interest in the joint venture, to force us to buy the partner’s interest in the joint venture or to compel the sale of the property owned by such joint venture. These rights may permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit from the value or profits of the joint venture than us, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our investment in the joint venture and on our financial condition and results of operations. Liability relating to environmental matters may impact the value of the properties that we may acquire or underlying our investments. Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on its property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or, was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. There may be environmental problems associated with our properties which we were unaware of at the time of acquisition. The presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect an owner’s ability to sell real estate or borrow using real estate as collateral. To the extent that an owner of a property underlying one of our debt investments becomes liable for removal costs, the ability of the owner to make debt payments to us 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS may be reduced. This, in turn, may adversely affect the value of the relevant mortgage asset held by us and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. The presence of hazardous substances, if any, on our properties may adversely affect our ability to sell an affected property and we may incur substantial remediation costs, thus harming our financial condition. In addition, although our leases, if any, will generally require our tenants to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising from a tenant’s activities on the property, we nonetheless would be subject to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interest for environmental liabilities created by such tenants, and we cannot ensure the stockholders that any tenants we might have would satisfy their indemnification obligations under the applicable sales agreement or lease. The discovery of material environmental liabilities attached to such properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot be assured that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, part of our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts that could require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances, e.g., the early termination of the derivative agreement caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the derivative contract. The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These economic losses will be reflected in our financial results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. Risks Relating Primarily to Gramercy Realty A significant portion of our properties are leased to financial institutions, making us more economically vulnerable in the event of a downturn in the banking industry. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from leases to financial institutions. Individual banks, as well as the banking industry in general, may be adversely affected by negative economic and market conditions throughout the United States or in the local economies in which regional or community banks operate, including negative conditions caused by the recent disruptions in the financial markets. In addition, changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws, including interest rate policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, may have an adverse impact on banks’ loan portfolios and 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS allowances for loan losses. As a result, we may experience higher rates of lease default or terminations in the event of a downturn in the banking industry than we would if our tenant base was more diversified. Certain tenants represent a significant portion of the revenue generated by our Gramercy Realty business and failure of these tenants to perform their obligations or renew their leases upon expiration may adversely affect our cash flow and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2009, Bank of America and Wachovia Bank represented approximately 41.7% and 15.7%, respectively, of Gramercy Realty’s portfolio base rental income and occupied approximately 44.2% and 17.7%, respectively, of our total rentable square feet. The default, financial distress or insolvency of Bank of America or Wachovia Bank, or the failure of any of these parties to renew their leases with us upon expiration, could cause interruptions in the receipt of lease revenue from these tenants and/or result in vacancies, which would reduce our revenue and increase operating costs until the affected properties are leased, and could decrease the ultimate value of the affected properties upon sale. We may be unable to lease the vacant property at a comparable lease rate or at all, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition as well as our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Certain of our leases permit our tenants to terminate their leases, in whole or in part, prior to their stated lease expiration dates, sometimes with little or no termination fee being paid to us. Certain of our leases, including our two large portfolio leases with Bank of America, which we refer to as the BBD 1 and BBD 2 Portfolios, our large portfolio lease with Wachovia Bank, which we refer to as the WBBD Portfolio, and our Dana Portfolio lease with Bank of America, permit our tenants to terminate their lease as to all or, in most cases, a portion of the leased premises prior to their stated lease expiration dates. Most such terminations can be effectuated by our tenants with little or no termination fee being paid to us. When tenants exercise early termination rights, our cash flow and earnings will be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to generate an equivalent amount of net rental income by leasing the vacated space to new third party tenants. Our tenants have noticed us that they will vacate 357,234 square feet of leased premises in 2010, and are contractually permitted to vacate an additional 23,536 square feet during 2010. The potential terminations constitute approximately 1.7% of the currently leased premises in our Gramercy Realty portfolio. Our cash flow will be reduced when Bank of America, as tenant under our Dana Portfolio lease, ceases making base rental payments in January 2011 and when significant rent step-downs occur in 2010 under the terms of a lease agreement with Regions Financial. Our Dana Portfolio consists of 13 office buildings and two parking facilities containing approximately 3.8 million square feet that we primarily lease to Bank of America pursuant to a lease that we acquired in the American Financial merger. Under the terms of that lease, which was originally entered into by Bank of America, as tenant, and Dana Commercial Credit Corporation, as landlord, as part of a larger bond-net lease transaction, Bank of America is required to make annual base rental payments of approximately $40.4 million in January 2010, and annual base rental payments of approximately $3.0 million in January 2011 and no annual base rental payments from 2012 through lease expiration in June 2022. The full 2010 rental payment of approximately $40.4 million was received in December 2009. Starting in January 2011, our cash flow will be reduced by Bank of America’s reduction in annual base rent under the Dana Portfolio lease to the extent that we are unable to generate an equivalent amount of net rent by leasing space vacated by Bank of America within the Dana Portfolio to new third party tenants. Additionally, under terms of the lease agreement with Regions Financial, rent for approximately 570,000 square feet will step down by approximately $5.1 million annually, beginning in July 2010. Rising operating expenses relating to our properties could reduce our cash flow and funds available for future distributions. Our properties are subject to operating risks common to real estate in general, any or all of which may negatively affect us. If the properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet expenses, including debt service, tenant improvements, leasing commissions and other capital expenditures, our cash flow will be negatively impacted and we may have to utilize our existing liquidity to cover these expenses or risk forfeiture of the assets if we default on any associated debt obligations. 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS With limited exceptions, we acquire properties on an “as is” basis and, therefore, the value of these properties may decline if we discover problems with the properties after we acquire them. We often acquire properties on an “as is” basis. We may receive limited representations, warranties and indemnities from the sellers and, in certain cases, we may be required to indemnify the sellers for certain matters, including environmental matters, in connection with our acquisition of such properties. In addition, we may purchase properties that have known or suspected environmental conditions, on the condition that the seller agrees, depending on the terms of the relevant purchase and sale contract, to either (i) investigate or remediate the environmental conditions, (ii) deduct the mutually agreed cost of remediation from the purchase price or (iii) indemnify us for the costs of investigating or remediating the environmental conditions, which indemnity may be limited. If we discover issues or problems related to the physical condition of a property, zoning, compliance with ordinances and regulations or other significant problems after we acquire the property, we typically have no recourse against the seller and the value of the property may be less than the amount we paid for such property. We may incur substantial costs in remediating or repairing a property that we acquire or in ensuring its compliance with governmental regulations. These capital expenditures would reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, we may be unable to rent these properties on terms favorable to us, or at all. The bankruptcy or insolvency of our tenants under their leases or delays by our tenants in making rental payments could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. Any bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of our tenants could bar us from collecting pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or its property, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from the bankruptcy court. A tenant bankruptcy could delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. Any unsecured claim we hold against a bankrupt entity may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. We may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims, which would harm our financial condition. Many of our tenants are banks that are not eligible to be debtors under the federal bankruptcy code, but would be subject to the liquidation and insolvency provisions of applicable banking laws and regulations. If the FDIC were appointed as receiver of a banking tenant because of a tenant’s insolvency, we would become an unsecured creditor of the tenant and be entitled to share with the other unsecured non-depositor creditors in the tenant’s assets on an equal basis after payment to the depositors of their claims. The FDIC has broad powers to reject any contract (including a lease) of a failed depository institution that the FDIC deems burdensome if the FDIC determines that such rejection is necessary to promise the orderly administration of the institution’s affairs. By federal statute, a landlord under a lease rejected by the FDIC is not entitled to claim any damages with respect to the disaffirmation, other than rent through the effective date of the disaffirmation. The amount paid on claims in respect of the lease would depend on, among other factors, the amount of assets of the insolvent tenant available for unsecured claims. We may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to stockholders at historical levels or at all. We have in the past acquired a substantial number of vacant bank branches, which are specialty-use properties and therefore may be more difficult to lease to non-banks. Bank branches are specialty-use properties that are outfitted with vaults, teller counters and other customary installations and equipment that require significant capital expenditures. Our revenue from and the value of the bank branches in our portfolio may be affected by a number of factors, including: • demand from financial institutions to lease or purchase properties that are configured to operate as bank branches • demand from non-banking institutions to make capital expenditures to modify the specialty-use properties to suit their needs; and • a downturn in the banking industry generally and, in particular, among smaller community banks. 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS These factors may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to stockholders, if financial institutions do not increase the number of bank branches they operate, do not find the locations of our bank branches desirable, or elect to make capital expenditures to materially modify other properties rather than pay higher lease or acquisition prices for properties already configured as bank branches. The sale or lease of these properties to entities other than financial institutions may be difficult due to the added cost and time of refitting the properties, which we do not expect to undertake. Certain of our mortgage loans that we assumed in connection with the American Financial merger impose “cash traps” when the financial performance of the property or the portfolio of properties securing such loans fails to meet certain pre-determined financial metrics, which if enforced could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. If the provisions relating to “cash traps” in our mortgage loans are triggered as a result of the failure of the mortgaged properties to meet certain financial performance metrics, we may be required to fund excess cash flow into reserve accounts with our mortgage lenders until compliance with the required metrics is achieved and, in such event, our liquidity will be negatively impacted and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We structure many of our real property acquisitions using complex structures often based on forecasted results for the acquisitions, and if the acquired properties underperform forecasted results, our financial condition and operating results may be harmed. We may acquire some of our properties under complex structures that we tailor to meet the specific needs of the tenants and/or sellers. For instance, we may enter into transactions under which a portion of the properties are vacant or will be vacant following the completion of the acquisition. If we fail to accurately forecast the leasing of such properties following our acquisition, our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to stockholders, may be adversely impacted. Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property. In addition, the presence of significant mold could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants and others if property damage or health concerns arise. Our properties may contain asbestos which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating asbestos. Certain laws and regulations govern the removal, encapsulation or disturbance of asbestos-containing materials, or ACMs, when those materials are in poor condition or in the event of building renovation or demolition, impose certain worker protection and notification requirements, and govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. These laws may also impose liability for a release of ACMs and may enable third parties to seek recovery against us for personal injury associated with ACMs. There are or may be ACMs at certain of our properties. We have either developed and implemented or are in the process of developing and implementing operations and maintenance programs that establish operating procedures with respect to ACMs. In March 2005, GAAP clarified that the term conditional asset retirement obligation as a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and (or) method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity. The obligation to perform the asset retirement activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists about the timing and (or) method of 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS settlement. Thus, the timing and (or) method of settlement may be conditional on a future event. Accordingly, an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. The fair value of a liability for the conditional asset retirement obligation is recognized when incurred — generally upon acquisition, construction, or development and (or) through the normal operation of the asset. To comply with GAAP we assessed the cost associated with our legal obligation to remediate asbestos in our properties known to contain asbestos. We believe that the majority of the costs associated with our remediation of asbestos have been identified and recorded in compliance with GAAP, however other obligations associated with asbestos in our properties may exist. Other obligations associated with asbestos in our properties will be recorded in our consolidated statement of operations in the future when/if the cost is incurred. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that adversely impact our ability to pay dividends to stockholders at historical levels or at all. All of our properties are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, or the ADA. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants or both. While the tenants to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ADA provisions with respect to their operations, we could be required to expend our own funds to achieve such compliance should our tenants fail to do so. In addition, we (and not our tenants) are generally required to comply with ADA provisions within the parking lots, access ways and other common areas of the properties we own and to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to pay dividends to stockholders at historical levels or at all. An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the policies on our properties could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties. Under the terms and conditions of the leases currently in force on our properties, tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons, air, water, land or property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted on the properties, except for claims arising from the negligence or intentional misconduct of us or our agents. Additionally, tenants are generally required, at the tenants’ expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies issued by companies holding general policyholder ratings of at least “A” as set forth in the most current issue of Best’s Insurance Guide. Insurance policies for property damage are generally in amounts not less than the full replacement cost of the improvements less slab, foundations, supports and other customarily excluded improvements and insure against all perils of fire, extended coverage, vandalism, malicious mischief and special extended perils (“all risk,” as that term is used in the insurance industry). Insurance policies are generally obtained by the tenant providing general liability coverage varying between $1.0 million and $10.0 million depending on the facts and circumstances surrounding the tenant and the industry in which it operates. These policies include liability coverage for bodily injury and property damage arising out of the ownership, use, occupancy or maintenance of the properties and all of their appurtenant areas. In addition to the indemnities and required insurance policies identified above, many of our properties are also covered by flood and earthquake insurance policies obtained by and paid for by the tenants as part of their risk management programs. Additionally, we have obtained blanket liability and property damage insurance policies to protect us and our properties against loss should the indemnities and insurance policies provided by the tenants fail to restore the properties to their condition prior to a loss. All of these policies may involve substantial deductibles and certain exclusions. In certain areas, we may have to obtain earthquake and flood insurance on specific properties as required by our lenders or by law. We have also obtained 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS terrorism insurance on some of our larger office buildings, but this insurance is subject to exclusions for loss or damage caused by nuclear substances, pollutants, contaminants and biological and chemical weapons. Should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to stockholders at historical levels or at all. Our real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property. We own both assets secured by real estate and real estate directly. Real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property, including: • acts of God, including earthquakes floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses; • acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks; • adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions, including the credit and securitization markets; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; • the perceptions of prospective tenants of the attractiveness of the properties; • costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions; and • the potential for uninsured or under-insured property losses. If any of these or similar events occur, it may reduce our return from an affected property or investment and reduce or eliminate our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our real estate investments may be illiquid, which could restrict our ability to respond rapidly to changes in economic conditions. The real estate and real estate-related assets in which we invest are generally illiquid. In addition, the instruments that we purchase in connection with privately negotiated transactions are not registered under the relevant securities laws, resulting in a prohibition against their transfer, sale, pledge or other disposition except in a transaction that is exempt from the registration requirements of, or is otherwise in accordance with, those laws. As a result, our ability to sell under-performing assets in our portfolio or respond to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited. CTL and real estate investments may generate losses. The value of our investments and the income from our real estate investments may be significantly adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • national, state and local economic climates; • real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of or a reduction in demand for real estate space in the area; • the perceptions of tenants and prospective tenants of the convenience, attractiveness and safety of our properties; • competition from comparable properties; • the occupancy rate of our properties; • the ability to collect on a timely basis all rent from tenants; • the effects of any bankruptcies or insolvencies of major tenants; • the expense of re-leasing space; 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funding; • the impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws; • cost of compliance with the American with Disabilities Act of 1990; • adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies; • civil unrest; • acts of nature, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters (which may result in uninsured losses); • acts of terrorism or war and; • adverse changes in zoning laws; and other factors which are beyond our control. We may experience losses if the creditworthiness of our tenants deteriorates and they are unable to meet their obligations under our leases. We own the properties leased to the tenants of our CTL and real estate investments and we receive rents from the tenants during the terms of our leases. A tenant’s ability to pay rent is determined by the creditworthiness of the tenant. If a tenant’s credit deteriorates, the tenant may default on its obligations under our lease and the tenant may also become bankrupt. The bankruptcy or insolvency of our tenants or other failure to pay is likely to adversely affect the income produced by our CTL and real estate investments. If a tenant defaults, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. If a tenant files for bankruptcy, we may not be able to evict the tenant solely because of such bankruptcy or failure to pay. A court, however, may authorize a tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. In such a case, our claim against the tenant for unpaid, future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent owed under the lease. In addition, certain amounts paid to us within 90 days prior to the tenant’s bankruptcy filing could be required to be returned to the tenant’s bankruptcy estate. In any event, it is highly unlikely that a bankrupt or insolvent tenant would pay in full amounts it owes us under a lease. In other circumstances, where a tenant’s financial condition has become impaired, we may agree to partially or wholly terminate the lease in advance of the termination date in consideration for a lease termination fee that is likely less than the agreed rental amount. Without regard to the manner in which the lease termination occurs, we are likely to incur additional costs in the form of tenant improvements and leasing commissions in our efforts to lease the space to a new tenant. In any of the foregoing circumstances, our financial performance, the market prices of our securities and our ability to pay dividends could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to relet or renew leases at the properties held by us on terms favorable to us. We are subject to risks that upon expiration or earlier termination of the leases for space located at our properties the space may not be relet or, if relet, the terms of the renewal or reletting (including the costs of required renovations or concessions to tenants) may be less favorable that current lease terms. Any of these situations may result in extended periods where there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by a property. If we are unable to relet or renew leases for all or substantially all of the spaces at these properties, if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected, or if our reserves for these purposes prove inadequate, we will experience a reduction in net income and may be required to reduce or eliminate distributions to our stockholders. Lease defaults or terminations or landlord-tenant disputes may adversely reduce our income from our leased property portfolio. Lease defaults or terminations by one or more of our significant tenants may reduce our revenues unless a default in cured or a suitable replacement tenant is found promptly. In addition, disputes may arise between the landlord and tenant that result in the tenant withholding rent payments, possibly for an extended period. These disputes may lead to litigation or other legal procedures to secure payment of the rent withheld or to evict the tenant. Any of these situations may result in extended periods during which there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by the property. If this were to occur, it could adversely affect our results of operations. 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Relating Primarily to Gramercy Finance Our borrowers may increasingly be unable to achieve their business plans due to the economic environment and strain on commercial real estate, which may cause stress in our commercial real estate loan portfolio. Many of our commercial real estate loans were made to borrowers who had a business plan to improve the collateral property. The current economic environment has created a number of obstacles to borrowers attempting to achieve their business plans, including lower occupancy rates and lower lease rates across all property types, which continues to be exacerbated by high unemployment and overall financial uncertainty. If borrowers are unable achieve their business plans, the related commercial real estate loans could go into default and severely impact our operating results and cash flows. A prolonged economic slowdown, a lengthy or severe recession, a reduction in liquidity, or declining real estate values could harm our operations. We believe the risk associated with our business is more severe during periods of economic slowdown or recession, such as we are experiencing, if these periods are accompanied by declining real estate values. Declining real estate values will likely reduce our level of new mortgage loan originations, since borrowers often use increases in the value of their existing properties to support the purchase or investment in additional properties. Borrowers may also be less able to pay principal and interest on our loans if the real estate economy weakens. Further, declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that we will incur losses on our loans in the event of default because the value of our collateral may be insufficient to recover the carrying value of the loan. A reduction in capital markets liquidity may cause difficulties for borrowers seeking to refinance existing loans at or prior to maturity, even in instances of satisfactory property cash flow and collateral value. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect both our net interest income from loans in our portfolio as well as our ability to originate, sell and securitize loans, which would significantly harm our revenues, results of operations, financial condition, business prospects and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Markets have experienced, and may continue to experience, periods of high volatility accompanied by reduced liquidity. Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating investment portfolio losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. Severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and we could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to occur, such as the recent conditions in the global financial markets and global economy. Many of our commercial real estate loans are funded with interest reserves and our borrowers may be unable to replenish those interest reserves once they are depleted. Given the transitional nature of many of our commercial real estate loans, we required borrowers to pre-fund reserves to cover interest and operating expenses until the property cash flows were projected to increase sufficiently to cover debt service costs. We also generally required the borrower to replenish reserves if they became deficient due to underperformance or if the borrower wanted to exercise extension options under the loan. Despite low interest rates, revenues on the properties underlying any commercial real estate loan investments will likely decrease in the current economic environment, making it more difficult for borrowers to meet their payment obligations to us. We expect that in the future some of our borrowers may have difficulty servicing our debt and will not have sufficient capital to replenish reserves, which could have a significant impact on our operating results and cash flow. We currently have certain loans that permit interest to be accrued until the loans’ maturity or refinancing. We currently have several loans that provide for interest accrual, in whole or in part, through loan maturity or refinancing. For loans of this type, often referred to as PIK loans, the time period between interest accrual and collection (as additional loan principal) may extend for 12 months or longer, depending on the term of the PIK loan. 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS Loan repayments are unlikely in the current market environment. In the past, a source of liquidity for us was the voluntary repayment of loans. Because the commercial real estate asset-backed markets remain closed, and banks and life insurance companies have drastically curtailed new lending activity, real estate owners are having difficulty refinancing their assets at maturity. If borrowers are not able to refinance loans at their maturity, the loans could go into default and the liquidity that we would receive from such repayments will not be available. Furthermore, without a functioning commercial real estate finance market, borrowers that are performing on their loans will almost certainly extend such loans if they have that right, which will further delay our ability to access liquidity through repayments. The loans we invest in and the commercial mortgage loans underlying the CMBS we invest in are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss. Commercial mortgage loans are secured by commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss. CMBS evidence interests in or are secured by a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans. These risks of loss are greater than similar risks associated with loans made on the security of single-family residential property. The ability of a borrower to pay principal and interest on a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of the property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by a number of conditions beyond our control, including: • tenant mix; • success of tenant businesses; • property management decisions; • property location and condition; • competition from comparable types of properties; • changes in laws that increase operating expense or limit rents that may be charged; • any need to address environmental contamination at the property; • the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property; • changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments; • declines in regional or local real estate values; • declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates; • increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses; and • changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. Any of these factors could have an adverse affect on the ability of the borrower to make payments of principal and interest in a timely fashion, or at all, on the mortgage loans in which we invest and could adversely affect the cash flows we intend to receive from these investments. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear the risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest on the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to the borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process which could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. The subordinate interests in whole loans in which we invest may be subject to additional risks relating to the privately negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may result in losses to us. A subordinate interest in a whole loan is a mortgage loan typically (i) secured by a whole loan on a single large commercial property or group of related properties and (ii) subordinated to a senior interest secured by the same whole loan on the same collateral. As a result, if a borrower defaults, there may not be sufficient funds remaining for subordinate interest owners after payment to the senior interest owners. Subordinate interests reflect similar credit risks to comparably rated CMBS. However, since each transaction is privately negotiated, subordinate interests can vary in their structural characteristics and risks. For example, the rights of holders of subordinate interests to control the process following a borrower default may be limited in certain investments. We cannot predict the terms of each subordinate investment. Further, subordinate interests typically are secured by a single property, and so reflect the increased risks associated with a single property compared to a pool of properties. Subordinate interests also are less liquid than CMBS, thus we may be unable to dispose of underperforming or non-performing investments. The higher risks associated with our subordinate position in these investments could subject us to increased risk of losses. Investments in mezzanine loans involve greater risks of loss than senior loans. Investments in mezzanine loans are secured by a pledge of the ownership interests in the entity that directly or indirectly owns the property. These types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than a senior mortgage loan because the investment may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. Frequently, senior loans mature simultaneously and unless extended, the investments in the mezzanine loans may be severely impaired. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the property owning entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to satisfy our mezzanine loan. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in losses. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan to value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. We evaluate the collectability of both interest and principal of each of our loans, if circumstances warrant, to determine whether they are impaired. A loan is impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the existing contractual terms. When a loan is impaired, the amount of the loss provision is calculated by comparing the carrying amount of the investment to the value determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at the loan’s effective interest rate or, as a practical expedient, to the value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. We cannot be certain that our estimates of collectible amounts will not change over time or that they will be representative of the amounts we actually collect, including amounts we would collect if we chose to sell these investments before their maturity. If we collect less than our estimates, we will record charges which could be material. Investment in non-conforming and non-investment grade loans may involve increased risk of loss. We have acquired or originated, and may continue to acquire or originate in the future, certain loans that do not conform to conventional loan criteria applied by traditional lenders and are not rated or are rated as non-investment grade (for example, for investments rated by Moody’s Investors Service, ratings lower than Baa3, and for Standard & Poor’s, BBB- or below). The non-investment grade ratings for these loans typically result from the overall leverage of the loans, the lack of a strong operating history for the properties underlying the loans, the borrowers’ credit history, the properties’ underlying cash flow or other factors. As a result, these loans have a higher risk of default and loss than conventional loans. Any loss we incur may reduce distributions to our stockholders. There are no limits on the percentage of unrated or non-investment grade assets we may hold in our portfolio. 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS Bridge loans involve a greater risk of loss than traditional mortgage loans. We provide bridge loans secured by first lien mortgages on a property to borrowers who are typically seeking short-term capital to be used in an acquisition or renovation of real estate. The borrower has usually identified an undervalued asset that has been under-managed or is located in a recovering market. If the market in which the asset is located fails to recover according to the borrower’s projections, or if the borrower fails to improve the quality of the asset’s management or the value of the asset, the borrower may not receive a sufficient return on the asset to satisfy the bridge loan, and we may not recover some or all of our investment. In addition, owners usually borrow funds under a conventional mortgage loan to repay a bridge loan. We may therefore be dependent on a borrower’s ability to obtain permanent financing to repay our bridge loan, which could depend on market conditions and other factors. Bridge loans are also subject to risks of borrower defaults, bankruptcies, fraud, losses and special hazard losses that are not covered by standard hazard insurance. In the event of any default under bridge loans held by us, we bear the risk of loss of principal and non-payment of interest and fees to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the mortgage collateral and the principal amount of the bridge loan. To the extent we suffer such losses with respect to our investments in bridge loans, the value of our company and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Preferred equity investments involve a greater risk of loss than traditional debt financing. Preferred equity investments are subordinate to debt financing and are not secured. Should the issuer default on our investment, we would only be able to proceed against the entity that issued the preferred equity in accordance with the terms of the preferred security, and not any property owned by the entity. Furthermore, in the event of bankruptcy or foreclosure, we would only be able to recoup our investment after any lenders to the entity are paid. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in losses. We may make investments in assets with lower credit quality, which will increase our risk of losses. Substantially all of our securities investments have explicit ratings assigned by at least one of the three leading nationally-recognized statistical rating agencies. However, we may invest in unrated securities or participate in unrated or distressed mortgage loans. An economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality investments and securities because the ability of the obligors of mortgages, including mortgages underlying CMBS, to make principal and interest payments may be impaired. If this were to occur, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these investments and securities. We have not established and do not currently plan to establish any investment criteria to limit our exposure to these risks for future investments. Our investments in subordinate loans and subordinated CMBS are subject to losses. We acquire subordinated loans and may invest in subordinated CMBS. In the event a borrower defaults on a loan and lacks sufficient assets to satisfy our loan, we may suffer a loss of principal or interest. In the event a borrower declares bankruptcy, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the borrower, or the assets of the borrower may not be sufficient to satisfy the loan. In addition, certain of our loans may be subordinate to other debt of the borrower. If a borrower defaults on our loan or on debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full. Where debt senior to our loan exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies (through “standstill periods”) and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. In general, losses on a mortgage loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the equity holder of the property, then by a cash reserve fund or letter of credit, if any, and then by the “first loss” subordinated security holder. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit and any classes of securities junior to those in which we invest, we will not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities we purchase. Likewise, we may not be able to recover some or all of our investment in certain subordinated loans in which we obtain interests. In addition, if the underlying mortgage 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS portfolio has been overvalued by the originator, or if the value subsequently declines and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related CMBS, the securities in which we invest may effectively become the “first loss” position behind the more senior securities, which may result in significant losses to us. An economic slowdown or recession, such as we are experiencing, could increase the risk of loss on our investments in subordinated CMBS. The prices of lower credit-quality securities, such as the subordinated CMBS in which we may invest, are very sensitive to adverse economic downturns or individual property developments. An economic downturn or a projection of an economic downturn could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors of mortgages underlying CMBS to make principal and interest payments may be impaired. In such event, existing credit support to a securitized structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these securities. Our due diligence may not reveal all of a borrower’s liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in its business. Before making a loan to a borrower, we assess the strength and skills of such entity’s management and other factors that we believe are material to the performance of the investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly subjective with respect to newly organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. There can be no assurance that our due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. We may be required to repurchase loans that we have sold or to indemnify holders of our CDOs. If any of the loans we originate or acquire and sell or securitize do not comply with representations and warranties that we make about certain characteristics of the loans, the borrowers, and the underlying properties, we may be required to repurchase those loans (including from a trust vehicle used to facilitate a structured financing of the assets through CDOs) or replace them with substitute loans. In addition, we may elect to repurchase loans from our CDOs, although we are not required to do so. In the case of loans that we have sold instead of retained, we may be required to indemnify persons for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty. Repurchased loans typically require a significant allocation of working capital to carry on our balance sheet, and our ability to borrow against such assets is limited. Any significant repurchases or indemnification payments could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We are subject to the risk that provisions of our loan agreements may be unenforceable. Our rights and obligations with respect to our loans are governed by written loan agreements and related documentation. It is possible that a court could determine that one or more provisions of a loan agreement are unenforceable, such as a loan prepayment provision or the provisions governing our security interest in the underlying collateral. If this were to happen with respect to a material asset or group of assets we could be adversely affected. The CMBS market has been severely impacted by the current economic turbulence, which has had a negative impact on the CMBS that we own. Because the CMBS markets remain illiquid and other participants in the commercial real estate lending have drastically curtailed new lending activity, real estate owners are having difficulty refinancing their assets. Property values have also decreased over the past year because of scarcity of financing, which, when it is available, has terms generally at much lower leverage and higher cost than available in prior years. Uncertainty regarding future economic conditions and higher returning investment opportunities available in other asset classes have also negatively impacted commercial real estate values. These conditions, together with wide-spread downgrades of CMBS by the rating agencies, significantly higher risk premiums required by investors and uncertainty surrounding commercial real estate generally, have had a negative impact on CMBS and have significantly decreased the current market value of most of the CMBS that we own. 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS Recent market conditions and the risk of continued market deterioration have caused and may continue to cause uncertainty in valuing our real estate securities. The continued market volatility and the lack of liquidity has made the valuation process pertaining to certain of our assets extremely difficult, particularly our CMBS assets for which there is very little market activity. Historically, our estimate of the value of these investments was primarily based on active new issuance and the secondary trading market of such securities as compiled and reported by securities dealers and independent pricing agencies. The current market environment is absent new issuances and there has been reduced secondary trading of CMBS. Therefore, our estimate of fair value may require significant judgment and consideration of other indicators of value such as current interest rates, relevant market indices, broker quotes, expected cash flows and other relevant market and security-specific data as appropriate. The amount that we could obtain if we were forced to liquidate our securities portfolio into the current market could be materially different than management’s best estimate of fair value. Credit ratings assigned to our CMBS investments are subject to ongoing evaluation and we cannot assure you that the ratings currently assigned to our investments will not be downgraded or that they accurately reflect the risks associated with those investments. Some of the CMBS securities in which we invest are rated by S&P, Moody’s and/or Fitch. Rating agencies rate these investments based upon their assessment of the perceived safety of the receipt of principal and interest payments from the issuers of such debt securities. Credit ratings assigned by the rating agencies may not fully reflect the true risks of an investment in such securities. Also, rating agencies may fail to make timely adjustments to credit ratings based on recently available data or changes in economic outlook or may otherwise fail to make changes in credit ratings in response to subsequent events, so that our investments may in fact be better or worse than the ratings indicate. We try to reduce the impact of the risk that a credit rating may not accurately reflect the risks associated with a particular debt security by not relying solely on credit ratings as the indicator of the quality of an investment. We make our acquisition decisions after factoring in other information, such as the discounted value of a CMBS security’s projected future cash flows, and the value of the real estate collateral underlying the mortgage loans owned by the issuing Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduit, or REMIC, trust. However, our assessment of the quality of a CMBS investment may also prove to be inaccurate and we may incur credit losses in excess of our initial expectations. Credit rating agencies may also change their methods of evaluating credit risk and determining ratings on securities backed by real estate loans and securities. These changes have increased in frequency over the past year and in the future may occur quickly and often. Downgrades of CMBS could result in subsequent downgrades in the CDO liabilities issued by our CDOs. The commercial real estate mortgage finance, real estate and capital markets’ ability to understand and absorb these changes, and the impact to the securitization market in general, are difficult to predict, and such downgrades could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We may not be able to find suitable replacement investments for CDOs within reinvestment periods. Our CDOs have periods where principal proceeds received from assets securing the CDO can be reinvested only for a defined period of time, commonly referred to as a reinvestment period, and only if we are in compliance with certain collateral quality tests as set forth in the operative documents for each of our CDOs. The reinvestment period on our 2005 CDO will end in July 2010. Our ability to find suitable investments during the reinvestment period that meet the criteria set forth in the CDO documentation and by rating agencies may determine the success of our CDO investments. Our potential inability to find suitable investments may cause, among other things, lower returns, interest deficiencies, hyper-amortization of the senior CDO securities and may cause us to reduce the life of our CDOs and accelerate the amortization of certain fees and expenses. Our investments in debt securities are subject to specific risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities and to the general risks of investing in subordinated real estate securities. Our investments in debt securities involve special risks. REITs generally are required to invest substantially in real estate or real estate-related assets and are subject to the inherent risks associated with real 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS estate-related investments discussed in this filing. Our investments in debt are subject to the risks described above with respect to mortgage loans and CMBS and similar risks, including: • risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss in the event thereof; • the dependence upon the successful operation of and net income from real property; • risks generally incident to interests in real property; and • risks that may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property. Debt securities may be unsecured and may also be subordinated to other obligations of the issuer. We may also invest in debt securities that are rated below investment grade. As a result, investments in debt securities are also subject to risks of: • limited liquidity in the secondary trading market; • substantial market price volatility resulting from changes in prevailing interest rates or credit spreads; • subordination to the prior claims of banks and other senior lenders to the issuer; • the operation of mandatory sinking fund or call/redemption provisions during periods of declining interest rates that could cause the issuer to reinvest premature redemption proceeds in lower yielding assets; • the possibility that earnings of the debt security issuer may be insufficient to meet its debt service; and • the declining creditworthiness and potential for insolvency of the issuer of such debt securities during periods of rising interest rates and economic downturn. These risks may adversely affect the value of outstanding debt securities and the ability of the issuers thereof to repay principal and interest. Our mortgage loans, mezzanine loans, participation interests in mortgage and mezzanine loans, real estate securities and preferred equity investments have been and may continue to be adversely affected by widening credit spreads, and if spreads continue to widen, the value of our loan and securities portfolios would decline further. Our investments in commercial real estate loans and real estate securities are subject to changes in credit spreads. When credit spreads widen, the economic value of our existing loans decrease. If a lender were to originate a similar loan today, such loan would carry a greater credit spread than the existing loan. Even though a loan may be performing in accordance with its loan agreement and the underlying collateral has not changed, the economic value of the loan may be negatively impacted by the incremental interest foregone from the widened credit spread. The economic value of our commercial real estate loan portfolio and our real estate securities portfolio has been significantly impacted, and may continue to be significantly impacted, by credit spread widening. Our hedging transactions may limit our gains or result in losses. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we use a variety of derivative instruments that are considered conventional “plain vanilla” derivatives, including interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors, in our risk management strategy to limit the effects of changes in interest rates on our operations. The value of our derivatives may fluctuate over time in response to changing market conditions, and will tend to change inversely with the value of the risk in our liabilities that we intend to hedge. Hedges are sometimes ineffective because the correlation between changes in value of the underlying investment and the derivative instrument is less than was expected when the hedging transaction was undertaken. Our hedging transactions, which are intended to limit losses, may actually limit gains and increase our exposure to losses. The use of derivatives to hedge our liabilities carries certain risks, including the risk that losses on a hedge position will reduce the cash available for distribution to stockholders and that these losses may exceed the amount invested in such instruments. A hedge may not be effective in eliminating all of the risks inherent in any particular position and 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS could result in higher interest rates than we would otherwise have. In addition, there will be various market risks against which we may not be able to hedge effectively. Moreover, no hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates, and our qualification as a REIT may limit our ability to effectively hedge our interest rate exposure. Our profitability may be adversely affected during any period as a result of the use of derivatives. Also, mark-to-market adjustments on our hedging transactions may require us to post additional collateral or make a cash deposit that reduces our available liquidity. Certain of our assets may be subject to purchase rights or rights of first offer in favor of SL Green, which could reduce their marketability or value. Our agreements with SL Green in connection with our commercial property investments in 885 Third Avenue and Two Herald Square contain a buy-sell provision that can be triggered by us in the event we and SL Green are unable to agree upon a major decision that would materially impair the value of the assets. Such major decisions involve the sale or refinancing of the assets, any extensions or modifications to the leases with the tenant therein or any material capital expenditures. These rights may make it more difficult to sell such assets because third parties may not want to incur the expenses and/or efforts to bid on these assets when they perceive that SL Green may acquire them at the lower of the terms proposed by the third party or par value. As a result, we may not receive the same value on the sale of such assets as we might receive from an independent third party submitting an offer through a competitive bidding process. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price. Under Maryland law, certain “business combinations” between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or asset transfers or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as: • any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation’s shares; or • an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our board of directors approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: • 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation; and • two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or by the interested stockholder’s affiliates or associates, voting together as a single group. The business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. We have opted out of these provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, with respect to its business combination provisions and its control share provisions by resolution of our board of directors and a provision in our bylaws, respectively. However, in the future our board of directors may 45 TABLE OF CONTENTS reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the MGCL’s business combination provisions, or amend our bylaws and elect to opt in to the MGCL’s control share provisions. Additionally, Title 8, Subtitle 3 of the MGCL permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which we do not have. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the stockholders with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. Our authorized but unissued preferred stock may prevent a change in our control which could be in the stockholders’ best interests. Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock. Any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders’ interests. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board of directors may establish a series of preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our staggered board of directors and other provisions of our charter and bylaws may prevent a change in our control. Our board of directors is divided into three classes of directors. The current terms of the directors expire in 2010, 2011 and 2012. Directors of each class are chosen for three-year terms upon the expiration of their current terms, and each year one class of directors is elected by the stockholders. The staggered terms of our directors may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interest of our stockholders. In addition, our charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common stock depends on various market conditions which may change from time to time. Among the market conditions that may affect the value of our common stock are the following: • the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; • our financial performance; and • general stock and bond market conditions. The market value of our common stock is based primarily upon the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions. Consequently, our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. If our future earnings or cash dividends are less than expected, it is likely that the market price of our common stock will diminish. An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of our common stock is our distribution rate as a percentage of our share price relative to market interest rates. If the market price of our common stock is based primarily on the earnings and return that we derive from our investments and income with respect to our investments and our related distributions to stockholders, and not from the market value of the investments themselves, then interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions will likely affect the market price of our common stock. For instance, if market rates rise without an increase in our distribution rate, the market price of our common stock could decrease as potential investors may require 46 TABLE OF CONTENTS a higher distribution yield on our common stock or seek other securities paying higher distributions or interest. In addition, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on our variable rate debt, thereby adversely affecting cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and pay distributions. We may not pay the dividends on our outstanding Series A preferred stock on April 15, 2010, which would be the sixth consecutive quarter in which the dividends payable to the Series A preferred stock are in arrears. Should this occur, the holders would be entitled, under the articles supplementary of the Series A preferred stock, to elect one additional director to our board of directors at the next annual meeting of stockholders or at any special meeting called for such purpose, until full dividends accrued on the Series A preferred stocks have been paid in full or declared and set apart for payment. We currently have 4,600,000 shares of the Series A preferred stock outstanding. Our board of directors has elected not to pay the Series A preferred stock dividends since the fourth quarter of 2008. Pursuant to the articles supplementary of the Series A preferred stock, if and when six or more quarterly dividends (whether or not consecutive) payable on the Series A preferred stock are in arrears, the holders of the Series A preferred stock, voting together as a single class, will be entitled to elect one additional director to our board of directors at any annual meeting of stockholders or any properly called special meeting for such purpose, until all arrears in dividends on the Series A preferred stock then outstanding have been paid and full dividends thereon for the current quarterly dividend period have been paid or declared and set apart for payment. In the event we are unable to pay the dividends on the Series A preferred stock on April 15, 2010, we may be required to add one additional member to our board of directors if and when the holders of the Series A preferred stock exercise their right to elect one additional director. Risks Related to Our Taxation as a REIT Our failure to qualify as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduced cash available for stockholders. We intend to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our continued qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution and stockholder ownership requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy some of the asset tests depends upon the fair market values of our assets, some of which are not able to be precisely determined and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, and certain statutory relief provisions were not available, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. Unless entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity. In order to qualify as a REIT, each year we must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, if any, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction, and not including any net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed net taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal tax laws. When necessary, we intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT distribution requirements and avoid corporate income tax and/or excise tax. However, differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement or avoid corporate income or excise tax. We may own assets that generate mismatches between taxable income and available cash. These assets may include (a) securities that have been financed through financing structures which require some or all of available cash flows to be used to service borrowings, (b) loans or CMBS we hold that have been issued at a discount and require the accrual of taxable economic interest in advance of 47 TABLE OF CONTENTS receipt in cash and (c) distressed debt on which we may be required to accrue taxable interest income even though the borrower is unable to make current debt service payments in cash. As a result, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our net taxable income could cause us to: (a) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (b) borrow on unfavorable terms or (c) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt to comply with REIT requirements. Further, amounts distributed will not be available to fund investment activities. We expect to fund our investments by raising equity capital and through borrowings from financial institutions and the debt capital markets. If we fail to obtain debt or equity capital in the future, it could limit our ability to grow, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The existing REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to hedge our operations. Except to the extent provided by Treasury regulations, (i) for transactions entered into on or prior to July 30, 2008, any income from a hedging transaction we enter into in the normal course of our business primarily to manage risk of interest rate or price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made, or ordinary obligations incurred or to be incurred, to acquire or carry real estate assets, including gain from the sale or disposition of such a transaction, will not constitute gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test (and will generally constitute non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test) and (ii) for transactions entered into after July 30, 2008, any income from a hedging transaction where the instrument hedges interest rate risk on liabilities used to carry or acquire real estate or hedges risk of currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain that would be qualifying income under the 75% or 95% gross income tests will be excluded from gross income for purposes of the 75% and 95% gross income tests. To qualify under either (i) or (ii) of the preceding sentence, the hedging transaction must be clearly identified as specified in Treasury regulations before the close of the day on which it was acquired, originated or entered into. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. In addition, we must limit our aggregate income from non-qualified hedging transactions, from our provision of services and from other non-qualifying sources, to less than 5% of our annual gross income (determined without regard to gross income from qualified hedging transactions). As a result, we may have to limit our use of certain hedging techniques or implement those hedges through TRSs. This could result in greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to incur or could increase the cost of our hedging activities. If we fail to satisfy the 75% or 95% limitations, we could lose our REIT qualification for U.S. federal income tax purposes, unless our failure was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect, and we meet certain other technical requirements. Even if our failure was due to reasonable cause, we might incur a penalty tax. We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case you may be required to pay income taxes in excess of the cash dividends you receive. We may in the future distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and shares of our common stock at the election of each stockholder. Under IRS Revenue Procedure 2010 – 12, up to 90% of any such taxable dividend for 2010 and 2011 could be payable in our stock. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for United States federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. Further, while Revenue Procedure 2010 – 12 applies only to taxable dividends payable in cash or stock in 2010 and 2011, it is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to pay taxable dividends in cash and 48 TABLE OF CONTENTS stock in later years. Moreover, various aspects of such a taxable cash/stock dividend are uncertain and have not yet been addressed by the IRS. No assurance can be given that the IRS will not impose additional requirements in the future with respect to taxable cash/stock dividends, including on a retroactive basis, or assert that the requirements for such taxable cash/stock dividends have not been met. The stock ownership limit imposed by the Internal Revenue Code for REITs and our charter may inhibit market activity in our stock and may restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% of the aggregate value of the outstanding shares of our stock. Our board of directors may not grant such an exemption to any proposed transferee whose ownership of in excess of 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares would result in the termination of our status as a REIT. Our board of directors has waived this provision in connection with SL Green’s purchase of our shares. We have also granted waivers to two other purchasers in connection with their purchase of our shares in a previous private placement. These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. The tax on prohibited transactions will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing loans and selling our loans and real estate properties, that may be treated as sales for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, as we have succeeded to any potential tax liability of American Financial in the merger, we may be subject to this tax on certain of its past dispositions. If the Internal Revenue Service were to successfully characterize those past dispositions as prohibited transactions, the resulting tax liability could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A REIT’s gain from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans and real estate, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were to sell or securitize loans or dispose of loans or real estate in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans or real estate for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans or real estate and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. It may be possible to reduce the impact of the prohibited transaction tax by engaging in securitization transactions treated as sales and loan and real estate dispositions through one or more of our TRSs, subject to certain limitations. Generally, to the extent that we engage in securitizations treated as sales or dispose of loans or real estate through one or more TRSs, the income associated with such activities would be subject to full corporate income tax at standard rates. Prior to our merger with American Financial, American Financial disposed of properties that it deemed to be inconsistent with the investment parameters for its portfolio or for other reasons it deemed appropriate. If American Financial believed that a sale of a property would likely be subject to the prohibited transaction tax if sold by the parent REIT, it disposed of that property through its TRS, in which case the gain from the sale was subject to corporate income tax at standard rates but not the 100% prohibited transaction tax. We intend to continue to sell real estate in a manner similar to American Financial. If the Internal Revenue Service were to successfully characterize American Financial’s past dispositions (including the dispositions through its TRS) as prohibited transactions, we, as successor to American Financial’s tax liabilities and property disposition procedures, could be subject to a 100% tax on the gain from those dispositions, and the resulting tax liability could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we may be liable for the 100% prohibited transaction tax if the Internal Revenue Service were to successfully challenge our future dispositions of loans and real estate. 49 TABLE OF CONTENTS The “taxable mortgage pool” rules may limit the manner in which we effect future securitizations and may subject us to U.S. federal income tax and increase the tax liability of our stockholders. Certain of our current and future securitizations, such as our CDOs, could be considered to result in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a REIT, so long as we or another private subsidiary REIT own 100% of the equity interests in a taxable mortgage pool, our qualification as a REIT would not be adversely affected by the characterization of the securitization as a taxable mortgage pool. We would generally be precluded, however, from holding equity interests in such securitizations through our operating partnership (unless held through a private subsidiary REIT), selling to outside investors equity interests in such securitizations or from selling any debt securities issued in connection with such securitizations that might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes. These limitations will preclude us from using certain techniques to maximize our returns from securitization transactions. Furthermore, we are taxable at the highest corporate income tax rate on a portion of the income arising from a taxable mortgage pool that is allocable to the percentage of our shares held by “disqualified organizations,” which are generally certain cooperatives, governmental entities and tax-exempt organizations that are exempt from unrelated business taxable income. We expect that disqualified organizations will own our shares from time to time. In addition, if we realize excess inclusion income and allocate it to stockholders, this income cannot be offset by net operating losses of our stockholders. If the stockholder is a tax-exempt entity and not a disqualified organization, then this income would be fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income under Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. If the stockholder is a foreign person, it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding on this. Nominees or other broker/dealers who hold our stock on behalf of disqualified organizations are subject to tax at the highest corporate income tax rate on a portion of our excess inclusion income allocable to the stock held on behalf of disqualified organizations. If the stockholder is a REIT, a regulated investment company, or RIC, common trust fund, or other pass-through entity, its allocable share of our excess inclusion income could be considered excess inclusion income of such entity and such entity will be subject to tax at the highest corporate tax rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to their owners that are disqualified organizations. Accordingly, such investors should be aware that a portion of our income may be considered excess inclusion income. Finally, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, our taxable mortgage pool securitizations will be treated as separate taxable corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We may be unable to generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses and to pay distributions to our stockholders. As a REIT, we are generally required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, if any, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and not including net capital gains, each year to our stockholders. To qualify for the tax benefits accorded to REITs, we have and intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts such that we distribute all or substantially all our net taxable income each year, subject to certain adjustments. However, our ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the event of a downturn in our operating results and financial performance or unanticipated declines in the value of our asset portfolio, we may be unable to declare or pay quarterly distributions or make distributions to our stockholders. The timing and amount of distributions are in the sole discretion of our board of directors, which considers, among other factors, our earnings, financial condition, debt service obligations and applicable debt covenants, REIT qualification requirements and other tax considerations and capital expenditure requirements as our board may deem relevant from time to time. Although our use of TRSs may be able to partially mitigate the impact of meeting the requirements necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT, our ownership of and relationship with our TRSs will be limited and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT qualification and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS generally may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS 50 TABLE OF CONTENTS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25% (20% for tax years commencing before January 1, 2009) of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Our TRSs, including GKK Trading Corp., GIT Trading Corp. and American Financial TRS, Inc., will pay U.S. federal, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution to us but will not be required to be distributed to us. We anticipate that the aggregate value of TRS securities owned by us will be less than 25% of the value of our total assets (including such TRS securities). Furthermore, we will monitor the value of our respective investments in our TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the rule that no more than 25% (20% for tax years commencing before January 1, 2009) of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of TRS securities (which is applied at the end of each calendar quarter). In addition, we will scrutinize all of our transactions with our TRSs for the purpose of ensuring that they are entered into on arm’s-length terms in order to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. The value of the securities that we hold in our TRSs may not be subject to precise valuation. Accordingly, there can be no complete assurance that we will be able to comply with the 25% (20% for tax years commencing before January 1, 2009) limitation discussed above or avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above. While we believe that American Financial qualified as a REIT prior to the merger, there is no guaranty the Internal Revenue Service will not successfully challenge such characterization. In the event American Financial did not qualify as a REIT, we as successor to American Financial’s tax liabilities could be subject to significant corporate tax on American Financial’s income prior to the merger. If such a tax were imposed, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A corporation which qualifies as a REIT is entitled to a deduction for dividends that it pays and, therefore, will not be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax to the extent such corporation’s net income is currently distributed to its stockholders. However, should the corporation cease to qualify as a REIT it would no longer be entitled to a deduction for dividends paid and would therefore be required to pay U.S. federal corporate level tax on its net income regardless of any dividends paid. While we believe that American Financial qualified as a REIT prior to the merger, should the Internal Revenue Service successfully challenge such characterization, American Financial would not have been eligible to deduct any dividends paid to its stockholders and it would have been subject to full U.S. federal corporate taxes on its net income. As successor to American Financial’s tax liabilities, we would be liable for any such tax imposed. If such taxes were imposed, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information This report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking expressions such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “project,” “continue,” or any negative or other variations on such expressions. Forward-looking statements include information concerning possible or assumed future results of our operations, including any forecasts, projections, plans and objectives for future operations. Although we believe that our plans, intentions and expectations as reflected in or suggested by those forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that the plans, intentions or expectations will be achieved. We have listed below some important risks, uncertainties and contingencies which could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the forward-looking statements we make in this report. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies include, but are not limited to, the following: • reduction in cash flows received from our investments, in particular our CDOs and our Gramercy Realty portfolio; 51 TABLE OF CONTENTS • the success or failure of our efforts to implement our current business strategy; • economic conditions generally and in the commercial finance and real estate markets and the banking industry specifically; • the performance and financial condition of borrowers, tenants, and corporate customers; • the actions of our competitors and our ability to respond to those actions; • the cost and availability of our financings, which depends in part on our asset quality, the nature of our relationships with our lenders and other capital providers, our business prospects and outlook and general market conditions; • the availability, terms and deployment of short-term and long-term capital; • availability of, and ability to retain, qualified personnel; • availability of investment opportunities on real estate assets and real estate-related and other securities; • the resolution of our non-performing and sub-performing assets and any losses we might recognize in connection with such investments; • our ability to renegotiate the terms of the Goldman Mortgage Loan and the senior and Goldman Mezzanine Loan; • our ability to comply with financial covenants in our debt instruments, but specifically in our loan agreement with PB Capital Corporation; • our ability to satisfy all covenants in our CDOs; • the adequacy of our cash reserves, working capital and other forms of liquidity; • changes to our management and board of directors; • unanticipated increases in financing and other costs, including a rise in interest rates; • our ability to maintain compliance with over-collateralization and interest coverage tests in our CDOs; • the timing of cash flows, if any, from our investments; • our ability to lease-up assumed leasehold interests above the leasehold liability obligation; • demand for office space; • risks of real estate acquisitions; • our ability to maintain our current relationships with financial institutions and to establish new relationships with additional financial institutions; • our ability to identify and complete additional property acquisitions; • our ability to profitably dispose of non-core assets; • risks of structured finance investments; • changes in governmental regulations, tax rates and similar matters; • legislative and regulatory changes (including changes to laws governing the taxation of REITs or the exemptions from registration as an investment company); • environmental and/or safety requirements; • our ability to satisfy complex rules in order for us to qualify as a REIT, for federal income tax purposes and qualify for our exemption under the Investment Company Act, our operating partnership’s ability to satisfy the rules in order for it to qualify as a partnership for federal income 52 TABLE OF CONTENTS tax purposes, and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to qualify as REITs and certain of our subsidiaries to qualify as taxable REIT subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes, and our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to operate effectively within the limitations imposed by these rules; • the continuing threat of terrorist attacks on the national, regional and local economies; and • other factors discussed under Item IA Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and those factors that may be contained in any filing we make with the SEC, including Part II, Item 1A of the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. We assume no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. In evaluating forward-looking statements, you should consider these risks and uncertainties, together with the other risks described from time-to-time in our reports and documents which are filed with the SEC, and you should not place undue reliance on those statements. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report may include additional factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. 53 TABLE OF CONTENTS SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING EXHIBITS In reviewing the agreements included as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, please remember they are included to provide you with information regarding their terms and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure information about our company or the other parties to the agreements. The agreements contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement and: • should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk tone of the parties if those statements provide to be inaccurate; • have been qualified by disclosures that were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable agreement, which disclosures are not necessarily reflected in the agreement; • may apply standards of materiality in a way that is different from what may be viewed as material to you or other investors; and • were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement and are subject to more recent developments. Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time. Additional information about our company may be found elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings, which are available without charge through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. See “Item 1. Business — Corporate Governance and Internet Address; Where Readers Can Find Additional Information.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As part of a periodic review by the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2009, June 30, 2009 and September 30, 2009, and the definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed on April 30, 2009, we received and responded to comments from the Staff of the SEC, or Staff. However, to date, the Staff has not provided their conclusion to our responses. 54 TABLE OF CONTENTS 