Item 1A. Risk Factors Stockholders and prospective purchasers of our common stock should carefully consider the risks described below before making a decision to buy our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. When determining whether to buy our common stock, 26 Table of Contents stockholders and prospective purchasers should also refer to the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to Our Business We are dependent on external sources of financing, and if we are unable to maintain adequate financing sources, our earnings and our financial position will suffer and jeopardize our ability to continue operations. We require substantial cash to support our operating activities and growth plans in our taxable REIT subsidiaries. Our primary sources of cash for our mortgage loan origination activities are our warehouse and aggregation credit facilities, our asset-backed commercial paper facility and the proceeds from the sales and securitizations of our mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2005, we had twelve short-term warehouse and aggregation credit facilities and our asset-backed commercial paper facility that provided us with approximately $13.1 billion of committed and $3.0 billion of uncommitted borrowing capacity to fund mortgage loan originations and purchases pending the pooling and sale of such mortgage loans. From time to time, we finance our residual interests in securitization transactions through the sale of net interest margin securities, or NIMS. During volatile times in the capital and secondary markets, access to warehouse, aggregation and NIMS financing as well as to the securitization and secondary markets for the sale of our mortgage loans has been severely constricted. If we cannot maintain or replace these facilities on comparable terms and conditions, we may incur substantially higher interest expense that would reduce our profitability. We also require substantial cash in order for our REIT to purchase and hold mortgage loans through securitizations structured as financings and to engage in hedging transactions. Our sources of cash for purchasing mortgage loans to be held for investment are the capital markets, borrowings from our taxable REIT subsidiaries or releases of over-collateralization accounts from prior securitizations structured as financings. If we have inadequate cash at the REIT, we may not be able to grow or maintain our REIT portfolio size, which may harm our ability to maintain or grow our REIT dividend. Likewise, a large margin call on our hedging instruments could negatively affect our liquidity position. In addition, we require substantial cash to pay our required REIT dividends. To qualify as a REIT under the Code, we generally are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding net capital gains). After-tax earnings generated by our taxable REIT subsidiaries and not distributed to us are not subject to these distribution requirements and may be retained by such subsidiaries to provide for future growth, subject to the limitations imposed by REIT tax rules. We conduct a substantial amount of our business through our taxable REIT subsidiaries. We cannot be certain that we will have access to funds to meet the REIT distribution and other qualification requirements. We may be required to borrow funds from one of our corporate subsidiaries or a third party on a short-term basis or liquidate investments to meet the distribution requirements that are necessary to qualify as a REIT, even if management believes that it is not in our best interests to do so. If we do not have access to the necessary funds, we may have to raise capital at inopportune times or borrow funds on unfavorable terms. However, if we are unable to maintain adequate financing or other sources of capital are not available, we would be forced to suspend or curtail our operations, which would harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Similarly, we may be required to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as selling assets, refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness or selling additional debt or equity securities. We face intense competition that could harm our market share and our revenues. We face intense competition from finance and mortgage banking companies, Internet-based lending companies and large financial institutions. Over the past year, we have experienced severe pricing competition from lenders who are offering interest rates lower than those we charge. Currently, we do not intend to compete solely on the basis of loan pricing. If the other features of our mortgage loans do not provide enough advantages to induce our potential wholesale 27 Table of Contents and retail customers to choose our mortgage loan products, our mortgage loan production volume could decrease, which could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. In addition, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are also expanding their participation in the subprime mortgage industry. These government-sponsored entities have a size and cost-of-funds advantage that allows them to purchase mortgage loans with lower rates or fees than we may be willing to offer. While the government-sponsored entities presently do not have the legal authority to originate mortgage loans, including subprime mortgage loans, they do have the authority to buy mortgage loans. A material expansion of their involvement in the market to purchase subprime mortgage loans could change the dynamics of the subprime industry by virtue of their sheer size, pricing power and the inherent advantages of a government charter. In addition, if as a result of their purchasing practices, these government-sponsored entities experience significantly higher-than-expected losses, such experience could harm the overall investor perception of the subprime mortgage industry. Certain large finance companies and conforming mortgage originators also originate subprime mortgage loans to customers similar to the borrowers we serve. Competitors with lower costs of capital have a competitive advantage over us. In addition, establishing a wholesale lending operation such as ours requires a relatively small commitment of capital and human resources. This low barrier to entry permits new competitors to enter our markets quickly and compete with our wholesale lending business. If these competitors are able to attract some of our key employees and disrupt our broker relationships, it could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Some thrifts, national banks and their operating subsidiaries are also expanding their mortgage lending activities. By virtue of their charters, these institutions are exempt from complying with many of the state and local laws that affect our operations. For example, they are permitted to offer mortgage loans with prepayment charges in many jurisdictions where we cannot. If more of these federally chartered institutions are able to use their preemptive ability to provide more competitive pricing and terms than we can offer, it could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. In addition, to the extent we purchase mortgage loans or mortgage-related assets from third parties, we will compete with other REITs, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, insurance companies, other lenders and other entities that purchase mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities, many of which have greater financial resources than we do. As a result, we may not be able to acquire sufficient mortgage-related assets with favorable yields over our borrowing costs, which could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. The intense competition in the mortgage industry has also led to rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards and frequent releases of new products and enhancements. As mortgage products are offered more widely through alternative distribution channels, such as the Internet, we may be required to make significant changes to our current wholesale and retail structures and information systems to compete effectively. Our inability to continue enhancing our current Internet capabilities, or to adapt to other technological changes in the industry, could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. A prolonged economic slowdown or a lengthy or severe recession could harm our operations, particularly if it results in a decline in the real estate market. The risks associated with our business are more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession because these periods may be accompanied by decreased demand for consumer credit and declining real estate values. Declining real estate values reduce the ability of borrowers to use home equity to support borrowings because they reduce the LTV of the home equity collateral. In addition, because we make a substantial number of mortgage loans to credit-impaired borrowers, the actual rates of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on these mortgage loans could be higher during economic slowdowns. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could harm our ability to sell mortgage loans, the prices we receive for our mortgage loans, or the values of our mortgage loans held for investment or our residual interests in securitizations, which could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. 28 Table of Contents Our earnings may decrease because of increases or decreases in interest rates. Our profitability may be directly affected by changes in interest rates. The following are some of the risks we face as a result of interest rate increases: • When we securitize mortgage loans, the income we receive and the value of the residual interests we retain from the securitizations structured as financings are based primarily on the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate, or LIBOR. This is because the interest on the underlying mortgage loans is based on fixed rates payable on the underlying mortgage loans for the first two or three years from origination while the holders of the applicable securities are generally paid based on an adjustable LIBOR-based yield. Therefore, an increase in LIBOR reduces the net income we receive from, and the value of, these mortgage loans and residual interests. • Our adjustable-rate mortgage loans have periodic and lifetime interest rate caps above which the interest rate on the mortgage loans may not rise. In the event of general interest rate increases, the rate of interest on these mortgage loans could be limited, while the rate payable on the senior certificates representing interests in a securitization trust into which these mortgage loans are sold may be uncapped. This would reduce the amount of cash we receive over the life of the mortgage loans in securitizations structured as financings and our residual interests, and could require us to reduce the carrying value of our residual interests. • Changes in interest rates may affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on our mortgage loans or mortgage-related assets and the interest expense that we incur in financing our assets through debt, including securitizations. We rely primarily on short-term borrowings to acquire assets with long-term maturities. Accordingly, increases in short-term interest rates as compared to long-term interest rates may negatively affect the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of mortgage loans we originate for resale, which will ultimately affect our earnings. In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase in different amounts and at different rates and times than the interest that we earn on our assets. If the net differential between our interest income on our mortgage loan assets and our interest expense to carry such mortgage loans was reduced, our net interest income would be reduced. Interest rate fluctuations resulting in our interest expense exceeding our interest income could result in operating losses for us and may limit or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. • A substantial and sustained increase in interest rates could harm our mortgage loan origination volume because refinancings of existing mortgage loans, including cash-out refinancings and interest rate-driven refinancings, would be less attractive and qualifying for a purchase mortgage loan may be more difficult. Lower origination volume may harm our earnings by reducing origination income, net interest income and gain on sale of mortgage loans. • During periods of rising interest rates, the value and profitability of our mortgage loans may be harmed between the date of origination or purchase until the date we sell or securitize the mortgage loans. • An increase in interest rates could increase the delinquency and default rates on the adjustable-rate mortgage loans that we originate and hold because the borrowers’ monthly payments under such mortgage loans may increase beyond the borrowers’ ability to pay. Our portfolio of mortgage-related assets includes a significant number of mortgage loans that were originated in 2004 and 2005 that are adjustable-rate mortgage loans. Due to significant increases in interest rates since those mortgage loans were originated, the borrowers may be facing a larger-than-expected payment increase once the initial two or three-year fixed period ends. This may result in higher delinquencies and/or faster prepayment speeds, both of which could harm our profitability. High delinquencies or losses may decrease our cash flows or impair our ability to sell or securitize mortgage loans in the future, which could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We are also subject to risks from decreasing interest rates. For example, a significant decrease in interest rates could increase the rate at which mortgage loans are prepaid, which also could require us to reduce the carrying value of our residual interests. Moreover, if prepayments are greater than expected, the cash we 29 Table of Contents receive over the life of our residual interests would be reduced. Higher-than-expected prepayments could also harm the value of our servicing portfolio. Therefore, any such changes in interest rates could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Our reliance on cash-out refinancings as a significant source of our origination volume increases the risk that our earnings will be harmed if the demand for this type of refinancing declines. During the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 48.4% of our mortgage loan production volume consisted of cash-out refinancings. This concentration increases the risk that our earnings will be reduced if interest rates rise and the prices of homes decline, which would reduce the demand and production volume for this type of refinancing. A substantial and sustained increase in interest rates could significantly reduce the number of borrowers who would qualify or elect to pursue a cash-out refinancing and result in a decline in that origination source. Similarly, a decrease in home prices would reduce the amount of equity available to be borrowed against in cash-out refinancings and result in a decrease in our mortgage loan production volume from that origination source. Therefore, our reliance on cash-out refinancings as a significant source of our origination volume could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations, and they may require management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. We have identified several accounting policies as being “critical” to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they require management to make particularly subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be recorded under different conditions or using different assumptions. These critical accounting policies relate to, without limitation, securitizations structured as financings, allowance for losses on mortgage loans held for investment, residual interests in securitizations, allowance for repurchase losses, gain on sale of mortgage loans, income taxes and derivative instruments designated and documented as hedges. Because of the inherent uncertainty of the estimates associated with these critical accounting policies, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not make significant subsequent adjustments to the related amounts recorded. For more information, please refer to the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies” section in this Report. Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with interest rates. We use various derivative financial instruments to provide a level of protection against interest rate changes, but no hedging strategy can protect us completely. When rates change, we expect to record a gain or loss on derivatives, which would be offset by an inverse change in the value of mortgage loans or residual interests. Additionally, from time to time, we may enter into hedging transactions in connection with our holdings of mortgage-backed securities and government securities with respect to one or more of our assets or liabilities. Our hedging activities may include derivative financial instruments such as Euro Dollar futures contracts, interest rate cap agreements, interest rate swap agreements, Treasury futures and options on interest rates as well has hedging instruments such as mortgage derivative securities. Currently, we intend to primarily use Euro Dollar futures contracts, interest rate cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements to manage the interest rate risk of our portfolio of adjustable-rate mortgages; however, we may change our hedging strategy in the future depending on market factors. Under our current strategy, any significant decrease in interest rates could result in a significant margin call, which would require us to provide the counterparty with additional cash collateral. Any such margin call could harm our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. The derivative financial instruments we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risk. There have been periods, and it is likely that there will be periods in the future, during which we will incur losses after accounting for our derivative financial instruments. In addition, the nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of these strategies. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually increase our risk and losses. Our hedging strategies also involve 30 Table of Contents transaction and other costs. We cannot assure you that our hedging strategy and the derivatives that we use will adequately offset the risk of interest rate volatility or that our hedging transactions will not result in losses, which losses could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. An increase in mortgage loan prepayments may negatively affect the yields on our assets. The value of the mortgage loans and any underlying securitization retained interests that we may hold will be affected by prepayment rates on those mortgage loans. Prepayment rates on mortgage loans are influenced by changes in interest rates and a variety of economic, geographic and other factors beyond our control. As a result, we are unable to predict prepayment rates with any certainty. In periods of declining mortgage loan interest rates, prepayments on mortgage loans generally increase. We likely would reinvest the proceeds that we receive from those prepayments in mortgage loans and other assets with lower yields than the yields on the mortgage loans that were prepaid. As interest rates decline, the market value of fixed-income assets generally increases. However, because of the risk of prepayment, the market value of any mortgage loan or mortgage-related asset does not increase to the same extent as fixed-income securities in an environment of declining interest rates. Conversely, in periods of rising interest rates, prepayments on mortgage loans generally decrease, in which case we would not have the prepayment proceeds available to invest in assets with higher yields. Under certain interest rate and prepayment scenarios, we may fail to recoup fully our costs. The mortgage loans that we hold are subject to the risks of delinquency and foreclosure loss, which could result in losses to us. Our mortgage loans are secured by residential properties and are subject to risks of loss from delinquencies and foreclosures. The ability of a borrower to repay a mortgage loan secured by residential property typically is dependent primarily upon the income or assets of the borrower. In addition, the ability of borrowers to repay their mortgage loans may be affected by, among other things: • property location and condition; • competition and demand for comparable properties; • changes in zoning laws for the property or its surrounding area; • environmental contamination at the property; • the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property; • changes in national, regional or local economic conditions; • declines in regional or local real estate values; • increases in interest rates or real estate taxes; • availability and costs of municipal services; • changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation and changes in tax laws; and • acts of God, war or other conflict, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances and natural disasters, such as hurricanes. In the event of a default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral that we can realize upon foreclosure and sale, and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan and the cost of foreclosing on the related property. Losses resulting from mortgage loan defaults and foreclosures could have a material adverse effect on our income and cash flow from operations and could limit the funds that we have available for distribution to our stockholders. We are exposed to greater risks of loss where we make both a first and second lien mortgage loans on the same property and do not have the benefits of private mortgage insurance. Our 31 Table of Contents underlying subordinated tranches in securitizations would also be affected adversely by losses on our mortgage loans that have been included in the related securitizations. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the related mortgage loan will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy, as determined by the bankruptcy court. The lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process that can have a substantial negative effect on our originally anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. Residential mortgage-backed securities evidence interests in, or are secured by, pools of residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, the subordinated tranches in the mortgage-backed securities that we hold are subject to all of the risks of the related mortgage loans. In addition, to the extent that the mortgage loans we originate experience relatively high rates of delinquency and/or foreclosure, then we may be unable to securitize our mortgage loans on terms that are attractive to us, if at all. The geographic concentration of our mortgage loan originations increases our exposure to economic and natural hazard risks specific to those areas. Over-concentration of our mortgage loan originations in any one geographic area increases our exposure to the economic and natural hazard risks associated with that area. For example, in the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 37.4% of the aggregate principal amount of our mortgage loans was secured by properties located in California. Certain parts of California have experienced an economic downturn in the past and have suffered the effects of certain natural hazards. Declines in the residential real estate markets in which we are concentrated may reduce the values of the properties collateralizing our mortgages, increase the risk of delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy or losses and could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Furthermore, if borrowers are not insured for natural disasters, which are typically not covered by standard hazard insurance policies, then they may not be able to repair the property or may stop paying their mortgages if the property is damaged. A natural disaster, such as Hurricane Katrina, that results in a significant number of delinquencies would cause increased foreclosures and decrease our ability to recover losses on properties affected by such disasters and would harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Likewise, the secondary market pricing for pools of mortgage loans that are not geographically diverse is typically less favorable than for a diverse pool. Our inability to originate or purchase geographically diverse pools of mortgage loans could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. An interruption or reduction in the securitization and whole loan markets would harm our financial position. We are dependent on the securitization market for the sale of our mortgage loans because we securitize mortgage loans directly and many of our whole loan buyers purchase our mortgage loans with the intention to securitize them. The securitization market is dependent upon a number of factors, including general economic conditions, conditions in the securities market generally and conditions in the asset-backed securities market specifically. In addition, poor performance of our previously securitized mortgage loans could harm our access to the securitization market. Accordingly, a decline in the securitization market or a change in the market’s demand for our mortgage loans could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We may not realize all of the expected benefits of, and we may incur additional costs related to, the acquisition of a mortgage origination platform from RBC Mortgage. On September 2, 2005, we acquired a mortgage origination platform from RBC Mortgage. It is too early to conclude whether we will realize the anticipated benefits of this acquisition, including expanded depth and breadth of our mortgage product offerings, expanded retail presence on a nationwide basis and expanded 32 Table of Contents channels of distribution, including into the realtor and builder channels. Moreover, our management has limited experience operating the recently acquired RBC Mortgage platform and integrating recently acquired businesses. At the same time, the ultimate costs associated with this acquisition may be higher than expected. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired business may result in operating difficulties, compliance errors and unanticipated expenditures and may require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of other aspects of our business. If we make any additional acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize the anticipated benefits. If appropriate opportunities become available, we may attempt to acquire businesses that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. We currently have no agreements to consummate any material acquisitions. If we pursue any such transaction, the process of negotiating the acquisition and integrating an acquired business may result in operating difficulties and expenditures and may require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business, whether or not any such transaction is ever consummated. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Our earnings from holding mortgage-backed securities or government securities may be harmed by changes in the level of interest rates, changes to the difference between short- and longer- term interest rates, changes to the difference between interest rates for these securities compared to other debt instruments, and an absence of or reduction in the availability, at favorable terms, of repurchase financing and other liquidity sources typically utilized by mortgage REITs. From time to time, we may purchase mortgage-backed securities or government securities from third parties in order to comply with the income and asset tests necessary to maintain our REIT status. The value of, and return on, the mortgage-backed securities and government securities we hold will be affected by changes in the marketplace for such securities, as well as prepayment speeds in the case of mortgage-backed securities, and may be volatile and significantly different than anticipated. The securities that we hold may produce large losses instead of the income that we expect. The impact of changes in the marketplace for these securities on our results may be magnified because these holdings could be highly leveraged. Additionally, much of the financing we will use to hold these securities may be cancelable by our lenders on short notice. If our lenders cease providing financing to us on favorable terms, we would be forced to liquidate some or all of these securities, possibly at a substantial loss, which could harm our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. A material difference between the assumptions used in the determination of the value of our residual interests and our actual experience could harm our financial position. As of December 31, 2005, the value on our balance sheet of our residual interests from securitization transactions was $234.9 million. The value of these residual interests is a function of the delinquency, loss, prepayment speed and discount rate assumptions we use. It is extremely difficult to validate the assumptions we use in valuing our residual interests. In the future, if our actual experience differs materially from these assumptions, our cash flow, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects may be harmed. We may be required to conform to the standards of the recent Ameriquest settlement, which could harm our business. In January 2006, ACC Capital Holding Corporation and its subsidiaries Ameriquest Mortgage Company, Town & Country Credit Corporation and AMC Mortgage Services Inc., formerly known as Bedford Home Loans, which we refer to collectively as “Ameriquest,” reached a settlement with various state Attorneys General resolving some of the regulatory complaints and consumer claims made against Ameriquest related to predatory home mortgage lending. By the terms of the settlement, the second largest federal consumer 33 Table of Contents protection settlement in history, Ameriquest agreed to implement certain new standards and to pay $325 million to the states, with most of the money to be used to pay restitution to consumers who obtained mortgage loans from Ameriquest between January 1999 and December 2005. In the settlement, Ameriquest denied all allegations but agreed to implement certain new standards and practices meant to prevent a recurrence of its alleged abuses and unfair and deceptive practices. Many of the settlement’s requirements far exceed any express requirements of existing lending laws. Although we believe our historical controls and practices have operated effectively to mitigate the risk of the abuses alleged in the Ameriquest settlement, in many cases our controls and policies are not identical to those prescribed by the Ameriquest settlement. However, some Attorneys General have made public statements that the conduct required by the Ameriquest settlement should be seen as new standards applicable to the entire industry and that they may pursue actions against lenders who do not adhere the new standards. If the Attorneys General seek to apply these standards to the entire industry or our company in particular, some of our own practices could be called into question and our revenues, business, results of operations and profitability could be harmed. In addition, if it becomes accepted practice that settlements entered with Attorneys General establish new standards for the industry as a whole and supercede existing express legislative requirements, the standards by which we are governed will become less predictable and the risks associated with our business will increase. New legislation could restrict our ability to make mortgage loans, which could harm our earnings. Several states and cities are considering or have passed laws, regulations or ordinances aimed at curbing predatory lending practices. The federal government is also considering legislative and regulatory proposals in this regard. In general, these proposals involve lowering the existing federal Homeownership and Equity Protection Act thresholds for defining a “high-cost” mortgage loan and establishing enhanced protections and remedies for borrowers who receive such mortgage loans. However, many of these laws and rules extend beyond curbing predatory lending practices to restrict commonly accepted lending activities, including some of our activities. For example, some of these laws and rules prohibit any form of prepayment charge or severely restrict a borrower’s ability to finance the points and fees charged in connection with the borrower’s mortgage loan. In addition, some of these laws and regulations provide for extensive assignee liability for warehouse lenders, whole loan buyers and securitization trusts. Because of enhanced risk and for reputational reasons, many whole loan buyers elect not to purchase any mortgage loan labeled as a “high cost” mortgage loan under any local, state or federal law or regulation. Accordingly, these laws and rules could severely constrict the secondary market for a significant portion of our mortgage loan production. This would effectively preclude us from continuing to originate mortgage loans that fit within the newly defined thresholds. Some of our competitors who are, or are owned by, national banks or federally chartered thrifts may not be subject to these laws and may, therefore, be able to capture market share from us and other lenders. Passage of such state and local laws could increase compliance costs and reduce fee income and origination volume, all of which would harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Lawsuits challenging our business practices, our competitors and other companies are pending and more may be filed in the future. We are named as a defendant in a number of lawsuits challenging various aspects of our business operations and seeking significant monetary damages. These cases allege violations of the Fair Credit Reporting Act, or FCRA, failure to pay overtime wages, the making of mortgage loans with fees greater than permitted by law and advertising practices and interference with broker relationships, among other matters. Additional litigation may be filed against us or disputes may arise in the future concerning these or other business practices. In addition, lawsuits have been filed, and other lawsuits may be filed in the future, against our competitors and other businesses, and although we are not a party to such litigation, the results of such lawsuits may create additional risks for, or impose additional costs or limitations on, our business operations. As courts resolve individual or class action litigation related to our industry, regulations and standards could emerge necessitating material increases in our costs of doing business or preventing us from participating 34 Table of Contents in certain business activities in which we currently engage. For instance, if claims by various plaintiffs that prescreened offers of credit do not qualify as firm offers of credit under the FCRA, and thus that we are not authorized to access certain consumer credit reports in relation to such offers, prevail, our business practices and ability to offer and close certain lines of credit would be impaired and our revenues, results of operations, business and profitability could be harmed. The outcome of litigation and other legal matters is always uncertain. One or more legal matters could result in losses material to our financial condition, results of operations, business and profitability. A description of material legal actions in which we are involved is included under “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3. The scope of our lending and servicing operations exposes us to risks of noncompliance with an increasing and inconsistent body of complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels. Because we are authorized to originate and service mortgage loans in all 50 U.S. states, we must comply with the laws and regulations, as well as judicial and administrative decisions, in all of these jurisdictions, as well as an extensive body of federal law and regulations. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years, and individual cities and counties have begun to enact laws that restrict mortgage loan origination and servicing activities. The laws and regulations of each of these jurisdictions are different, complex and, in some cases, in direct conflict with each other. Moreover, plaintiffs are beginning to attack the legality of origination and servicing practices that are customary in the mortgage loan industry. As our operations continue to grow, it may be more difficult to comprehensively identify, accurately interpret and properly program our technology systems and effectively train our personnel with respect to all of these laws and regulations, thereby potentially increasing our exposure to the risks of noncompliance with these laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with these laws can lead to: • civil and criminal liability; • loss of licensure; • damage to our reputation in the industry; • inability to sell or securitize our mortgage loans; • demands for indemnification or mortgage loan repurchases from purchasers of our mortgage loans; • fines and penalties and litigation, including class action lawsuits; or • administrative enforcement actions. Any of these results could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Our interest-only mortgage loans may have a higher risk of default than our fully-amortizing mortgage loans and, therefore, may be considered less valuable than other types of mortgage loans in the sales and securitization process. During the year ended December 31, 2005, originations of interest-only mortgage loans totaled $17.3 billion, or 30.7%, of total originations. Until the fourth quarter of 2005, most of these interest only mortgage loans required the borrower to make monthly payments only of accrued interest for the first two or three years, corresponding to the initial fixed-rate period of these mortgage loans. Since then, we changed our product design to provide for interest only payments for at least the first 5 years following origination. The interest-only feature may reduce the likelihood of prepayment during the interest-only period due to the smaller monthly payments relative to a fully-amortizing mortgage loan. However, upon expiration of the interest-only payment, the borrower’s payment will increase to cover the fully amortizing payment. The adjustment to the higher payment amount increases the risk that the borrower will default or prepay the mortgage loan. Because no principal payments may be made on such mortgage loans for an extended period following origination, if the borrower defaults, the unpaid principal balance of the related mortgage loan will be greater than otherwise would be the case, increasing the risk of loss in that situation. For those reasons, 35 Table of Contents among others, these interest-only mortgage loans may be less valuable in the secondary market and may result in lesser proceeds to us when sold or securitized as compared to fully amortizing mortgage loans. We may incur losses on our mortgage loans even if the mortgage loans are insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the Veterans Administration. Originations in connection with our recently acquired RBC Mortgage platform include mortgage loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration and mortgage loans guaranteed by the Veterans Administration. While those insured mortgage loans and guaranteed mortgage loans are generally subject to a lower risk of default than mortgage loans that are not insured or guaranteed, there can be no assurance that our insured mortgage loans and guaranteed mortgage loans will not be subject to credit losses. The Federal Housing Administration only insures against foreclosure and the Veterans Administration only partially guarantees the losses that we incur as a result of foreclosure. Moreover, neither the insurance nor the guarantees take into account the interest rate risks, prepayment risks, extension risks or other risks associated with mortgage loans. In addition, the insurance and the guarantees do not protect us against a reduction in the market value of the mortgage loans. As a result, while we attempt to mitigate our exposure to credit risk for certain of our mortgage loans by obtaining insurance from the Federal Housing Administration and guarantees from the Veterans Administration, we cannot eliminate all such credit risks and remain subject to other risks related to mortgage loans and may suffer losses, which may harm the market price of our securities. The loss of our exemption under the Investment Company Act would harm us and the market price of our shares of common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We are not currently regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act, and we intend to operate so as to not become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. For example, we intend to qualify for an exemption under the Investment Company Act that is available to companies that are “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” Specifically, we intend to invest at least 55% of our assets in mortgage loans or mortgage-related assets securities that represent the entire ownership in a pool of mortgage loans and at least an additional 25% of our assets in mortgages, mortgage-related assets securities, securities of REITs and other real estate-related assets. As of December 31, 2005, 61.7% of our assets consisted of mortgage loans or mortgage-related assets that represent the entire ownership in a pool of mortgage loans and another 30.8% of our assets were invested in mortgages, mortgage-related assets, securities of REITs and other real estate-related assets. If we fail to qualify for that exemption, we may be required to restructure our activities. For example, if the market value of our investments in equity securities were to increase by an amount that caused less than 55% of our assets to be invested in mortgage loans or mortgage-related assets that represent the entire ownership in a pool of mortgage loans, we might have to sell equity securities in order to qualify for an exemption under the Investment Company Act. In the event we must restructure our activities, such restructuring could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Our inability to realize cash proceeds from mortgage loan sales and securitizations in excess of the loan acquisition cost could harm our financial position. The net cash proceeds received from mortgage loan sales consist of the premiums we receive on sales of mortgage loans in excess of the outstanding principal balance, plus the cash proceeds we receive from securitizations structured as sales, minus the discounts on mortgage loans that we have to sell for less than the outstanding principal balance. If we are unable to originate mortgage loans at a cost lower than the cash proceeds realized from mortgage loan sales, such inability could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. 36 Table of Contents Our credit facilities are subject to margin calls based on the lender’s opinion of the value of our mortgage loan collateral. An unanticipated large margin call could harm our liquidity. The amount of financing we receive under our credit facilities depends in large part on the lender’s valuation of the mortgage loans that secure the financings. Each such facility provides the lender the right, under certain circumstances, to reevaluate the mortgage loan collateral that secures our outstanding borrowings at any time. In the event the lender determines that the value of the mortgage loan collateral has decreased, it has the right to initiate a margin call. A margin call would require us to provide the lender with additional collateral or to repay a portion of the outstanding borrowings. Any such margin call could harm our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Our origination and servicing systems depend significantly on automated controls and any failure of these systems could harm our business. We are increasingly dependent on automated systems and technology to operate our business, enhance customer service and achieve low operating costs. Our origination and servicing systems rely heavily on automated controls. The performance and reliability of our automated systems are critical to our ability to operate our business and compete effectively. Given our high volume of transactions, certain errors in our automated systems may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully corrected. If we misinterpret or incorrectly implement a legal standard in our automated systems, the error may be replicated numerous times before it is fixed. In addition, technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of our automated systems may result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also face the risk that the design of our controls and procedures prove inadequate or are circumvented, thereby causing delays in detection or errors in information. In addition, we are exposed to the risk that our external vendors may not fulfill their contractual obligations to us. Our automated systems cannot be completely protected against events that are beyond our control, including natural disasters, computer viruses or telecommunications failures. Our business continuity and data security systems may prove inadequate to allow us to resume operations in the event of a disruption to our operations. There can be no assurance that we will not suffer losses from operational risks in the future that may be material in amount. Substantial or sustained system failures could impact customer service. Any disruptions in these systems due to internal failures of technology or large-scale external interruptions in technology infrastructure, such as power, telecommunications or the internet, could result in the loss of revenue or important data, increase our expenses and generally harm our business. Our efforts to increase our servicing activities may be unsuccessful and a decline in the quality of servicing could lower the value of our residual interests and our ability to sell or securitize mortgage loans and could harm the cash flows from our securitizations structured as financings. We have devoted a significant amount of our resources and expenditures in recent periods to expanding our servicing capabilities. During the past two years, we have completed several servicing platform technology initiatives and moved our servicing platform to a new larger facility to allow for increased servicing capacity and growth of our servicing activity. We may not realize the expected benefits from these initiatives and the expected benefits we do realize may not occur until future periods. If we are unable to realize the expected benefits of the expansion of our servicing capabilities, our revenues, business, results of operations and profitability could suffer and we would have less funds available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, a weakened ability to service mortgage loans could disadvantage us against our competitors in the market for sales and securitizations of mortgage loans in the secondary market and harm our ongoing business relationships, and ability to effect repeat business, with borrowers in need of new mortgage loans or seeking to refinance existing mortgage loans. A decline in the quality of servicing we provide could lead to higher levels of delinquencies, realized losses, interest expenses and subordination levels of our securitizations. In addition, our historical delinquency, bankruptcy, foreclosure or default estimates may ultimately prove inaccurate, which would prevent us from 37 Table of Contents accurately predicting the future delinquency and loss experience of the mortgage loans we service. The effectiveness of our loss mitigation strategies may suffer as a result and any higher default rate resulting from delinquencies may harm our revenues, business, results of operations and profitability. High costs and significant funding required to maintain large subordinated interests in securitizations would reduce our profitability and growth and harm our financial condition. We are subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of mortgage loan applicants, mortgage brokers, other vendors and our employees. When we originate mortgage loans, we rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in the mortgage loan application, property appraisal, title information and employment and income documentation. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to loan funding, the value of the mortgage loan may be significantly lower than expected. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the mortgage loan applicant, the mortgage broker, another third party or one of our employees, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. A mortgage loan subject to a material misrepresentation is typically unsaleable or subject to repurchase if it is sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation, and the persons and entities involved are often difficult to locate and it is often difficult to collect any monetary losses that we have suffered from them. We have controls and processes designed to help us identify misrepresented information in our mortgage loan origination operations. However, no degree of controls can provide assurance that we have detected or will detect all misrepresented information in our mortgage loan originations. We may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent brokers. The mortgage brokers from whom we obtain mortgage loans have parallel and separate legal obligations to which they are subject. While these laws may not explicitly hold the originating lenders responsible for the legal violations of mortgage brokers, increasingly federal and state agencies have sought to impose such liability on parties that take assignments of such mortgage loans. The United States Justice Department in the past has sought to hold a mortgage lender responsible for the pricing practices of its mortgage brokers, alleging that the mortgage lender was directly responsible for the total fees and charges paid by the borrower under the Fair Housing Act even if the lender neither dictated what the mortgage broker could charge nor kept the money for its own account. Accordingly, we may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent mortgage brokers. We are dependent upon third parties for many of our significant administrative and financial processes. To lower our costs and provide more competitive products for our customers, we are shifting various administrative and financial processes, particularly in the areas of human resources, accounts payable and procurement, to Accenture LLP and other third party vendors. Our inability to properly transfer administrative and financial processes or any failed or less than optimal execution by a third party vendor, including any disruptions, delays or failure in service, could harm our revenues, business, results of operations and profitability, be costly and disruptive to our business and decrease the funds we would have available for distribution to our shareholders. Delays in the implementation of Accenture’s business process outsourcing capabilities or in the effective use of other third party vendors could harm our ability to meet our cost reduction goals. Should Accenture or any of our other third party vendors wish to terminate or modify our arrangements with them, we would incur transition costs, which would likely be significant, to switch to another vendor. A change in vendors may require significant lead-time. A prolonged inability to obtain these processes could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. 38 Table of Contents Changes in the volume and cost of mortgage loans originated by our Wholesale Division may decrease our mortgage loan production and decrease our earnings. We depend primarily on independent mortgage brokers and, to a lesser extent, on correspondent lenders for the origination and purchase of our wholesale mortgage loans, which constitute the majority of our mortgage loan production. These independent mortgage brokers have relationships with multiple lenders and are not obligated by contract or otherwise to do business with us. We compete with these lenders for the independent brokers’ business on pricing, service, loan fees, costs and other factors. Competition from other lenders and purchasers of mortgage loans could negatively affect the volume and pricing of our wholesale mortgage loans, which could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. If many of our borrowers become subject to the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act of 2003, our cash flows from our residual securities and our securitizations structured as financings may be harmed. Under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, which in 2003 re-enacted the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act of 1940, a borrower who enters military service after the origination of the borrower’s mortgage loan generally may not be charged interest above an annual rate of 6% during the period of the borrower’s active duty status. The Act also applies to a borrower who was on reserve status and is called to active duty after origination of the mortgage loan. A prolonged, significant military mobilization as part of the war on terrorism or the war in Iraq could increase the number of the borrowers in our securitized pools who are subject to the Act and thereby reduce the interest payments collected from those borrowers. To the extent the number of borrowers who are subject to the Act is significant, the cash flows we receive from mortgage loans underlying our securitizations structured as financings and from our residual interests would be reduced, which could cause us to reduce the carrying value of our residual interests and could decrease our earnings. In addition, the Act imposes limitations that would impair the ability of the servicer to foreclose on an affected mortgage loan during the borrower’s period of active duty status, and, under certain circumstances, during an additional three month period thereafter. Any such reduction in our cash flows or impairment in our performance could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. The inability to attract and retain qualified employees could significantly harm our business. We depend on our wholesale account executives and retail mortgage loan officers to attract borrowers by, among other things, developing relationships with financial institutions, other mortgage companies and brokers, real estate agents, borrowers and others. We believe that these relationships lead to repeat and referral business. The market for skilled account executives and mortgage loan officers is highly competitive and historically has experienced a high rate of turnover. In addition, if a manager is no longer employed by us, there is an increased likelihood that other members of his or her team will leave our employ as well. Competition for qualified account executives and mortgage loan officers may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. If we are unable to attract or retain a sufficient number of skilled account executives at manageable costs, we will be unable to continue to originate quality mortgage loans that we are able to sell for a profit, which would harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. An interruption in or breach of our information systems may result in lost business. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of our information systems or the third-party information systems on which we rely could cause underwriting or other delays and could result in fewer mortgage loan applications being received, slower processing of applications and reduced efficiency in mortgage loan servicing. We are required to comply with significant federal and state regulations with respect to the handling of customer information, and a failure, interruption or breach of our information systems could result in regulatory action and litigation against us. We cannot assure you that such failures or interruptions will not occur or if they do occur that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. 39 Table of Contents The success and growth of our business will depend upon our ability to adapt to and implement technological changes. Our mortgage loan origination business is currently dependent upon our ability to effectively interface with our brokers, borrowers and other third parties and to efficiently process mortgage loan applications and closings. The origination process is becoming more dependent upon technological advancement, such as the ability to process applications over the Internet, accept electronic signatures and provide process status updates instantly and other customer-expected conveniences that are cost-efficient to our process. In addition, we have recently implemented a new mortgage loan origination system. Becoming proficient with the new mortgage loan origination system and other new technology will require significant financial and personnel resources. There is no guarantee that the implementation of our new mortgage loan origination system or other new technology will be successful. To the extent that we become reliant on any particular technology or technological solution, we may be harmed to the extent that such technology or technological solution (i) becomes non-compliant with existing industry standards, (ii) fails to meet or exceed the capabilities of our competitors’ equivalent technologies or technological solutions, (iii) becomes increasingly expensive to service, retain and update, or (iv) becomes subject to third-party claims of copyright or patent infringement. Any failure to acquire technologies or technological solutions when necessary could limit our ability to remain competitive in our industry and could also limit our ability to increase the cost-efficiencies of our operating model, which would harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify investors if we breach representations and warranties, which could harm our earnings. When we sell mortgage loans, we are required to make customary representations and warranties about such mortgage loans to the purchaser. Our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach a representation or warranty given to the mortgage loan purchaser or make a misrepresentation during the mortgage loan origination process. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default on a mortgage loan. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. The remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans are generally broader than those available to us against the originating broker or correspondent. Further, if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to enforce the remedies we have against the sellers. The repurchased mortgage loans typically can only be financed at a steep discount to their repurchase price, if at all. They are also typically sold at a significant discount to the unpaid principal balance. Significant repurchase activity could harm our cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to residential properties and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation, and cleanup costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and business prospects could be harmed. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our financial performance could be harmed. In recent years, we have experienced rapid growth that has placed, and will continue to place, certain pressures on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. As of December 31, 2000, we had approximately 1,500 employees and by December 31, 2005, we had approximately 7,200 employees. Many of these employees have a limited understanding of our systems and controls. The increase 40 Table of Contents in the size of our operations may make it more difficult for us to ensure that we originate quality mortgage loans and that we service them effectively. We will need to attract and hire additional sales and management personnel in an intensely competitive hiring environment in order to preserve and increase our market share. At the same time, we will need to continue to upgrade and expand our financial, operational and managerial systems and controls. We may change our policies in ways that harm our financial condition or results of operations. Our investment and financing policies and our policies with respect to other activities, including our growth, debt capitalization, distributions, REIT status and operating policies are determined by our board of directors. Our board of directors may change these policies at any time without a vote of our stockholders. A change in these policies might harm our financial condition, results of operations or business prospects. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and proposed and recently enacted changes in securities laws and regulations are likely to increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NYSE have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices for public companies, including ourselves. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee. Risks Related to New Century Securities The stock price and trading volume of New Century common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for stockholders and harm our ability to access the capital markets in the future. The market price of New Century common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations that are unrelated to our operating performance. In addition, the trading volume in New Century common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of New Century common stock include: • general market and economic conditions; • actual or anticipated changes in our future financial performance; • changes in market interest rates; • competitive developments, including announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services or significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or capital commitments; • the operations and stock performance of our competitors; • developments in the mortgage lending industry or the financial services sector generally; • the impact of new state or federal legislation or court decisions restricting the activities of lenders or suppliers of credit in our market; • fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • additions or departures of senior management and key personnel; and • actions by institutional stockholders. We cannot assure you that the market price of New Century common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. In addition, the stock market in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations. This volatility may make it difficult for us to access the capital markets through 41 Table of Contents additional secondary offerings of New Century common stock, regardless of our financial performance, and such difficulty may preclude us from being able to take advantage of certain business opportunities or meet our obligations, which could, in turn, harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Future sales of shares of New Century common stock, including shares of common stock by our insiders, may depress the price of New Century common stock. Any sales of a substantial number of shares of New Century common stock, or the perception that those sales might occur, may cause the market price of New Century common stock to decline. We are unable to predict whether significant numbers of shares will be sold in the open market in anticipation of or following a sale by insiders. Our board of directors may authorize the issuance of additional securities that may cause dilution and may depress the price of New Century securities. Our charter permits our board of directors, without our stockholders’ approval, to: • authorize the issuance of additional common stock or preferred stock in connection with future equity offerings or acquisitions of securities or other assets of companies; and • classify or reclassify any unissued common stock or preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares, including the issuance of shares of preferred stock that have preference rights over the common stock and existing preferred stock with respect to dividends, liquidation, voting and other matters or shares of common stock that have preference rights over common stock with respect to voting. The issuance of additional shares of New Century securities could be substantially dilutive to our existing stockholders and may depress the price of New Century securities. Future offerings of debt securities, which would be senior to New Century common stock and preferred stock in liquidation, or equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders’ interests and may be senior to New Century common stock or existing preferred stock for the purposes of distributions, may harm the market price of New Century securities. We will continue to seek to access the capital markets from time to time by making additional offerings of debt and/or equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes, preferred stock or common stock. We are not precluded by the terms of our charter from issuing additional indebtedness. Accordingly, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service obligations that could harm our ability to make expected distributions to stockholders and in an increased risk of default on our obligations. If we were to liquidate, holders of our debt and lenders with respect to other borrowings would receive a distribution of our available assets before the holders of New Century common stock and preferred stock. Additional equity offerings by us may dilute our existing stockholders’ interest in us or reduce the market price of existing New Century securities. Our Series A Preferred Stock has, and our other preferred stock, if issued, could have, a preference on distribution payments that could limit our ability to make a distribution to holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. Thus, our existing stockholders will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of New Century securities and diluting their ownership interest in us. 42 Table of Contents The stock ownership limit imposed by our charter may inhibit market activity in our stock and may restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year after our first REIT taxable year. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT and provide that, unless exempted by our board of directors, no single stockholder, or any group of affiliated stockholders, may beneficially own more than 9.8%, as such percentage may be modified by our board of directors from time to time, in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our capital stock. Our board of directors also has authority under our charter to impose a similar ownership limitation as to any separate class or series of preferred stock we may issue in the future. Our board of directors may grant an exemption from that ownership limit in its sole discretion, subject to such conditions, representations and undertakings as it may determine and as are consistent with ensuring compliance with the REIT provisions of the Code. Our charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in us losing our REIT status. If you or anyone else acquires shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the Code for REITs, we: • will consider the transfer to be null and void; • will not reflect the transaction on our books; • may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction; • will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares; • will not recognize any voting rights for those shares; and • will consider the shares held in trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary as designated by us. The trustee shall sell the shares held in trust and the owner of the excess shares will be entitled to the lesser of: (1) the price paid by the transferee; (2) if the transferee did not purchase the excess shares, the closing price for the shares on the national securities exchange on which the New Century securities are listed or quoted on the day of the event causing the shares to be held in trust; or (3) the price received by the trustee from the sale of the shares. This ownership limit could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for New Century common stock or otherwise be in your best interest and may result in the entrenchment of our board of directors and management regardless of performance. Certain provisions of Maryland law and our charter and bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control. Certain provisions of Maryland law and our charter and bylaws could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control of us, and may have the effect of entrenching our management and members of our board of directors, regardless of performance. These provisions include the following: • Classified board of directors. Our board of directors is divided into three classes with staggered terms of office of three years each. The classification and staggered terms of office of our directors make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board of directors. At least two annual meetings of 43 Table of Contents stockholders, instead of one, generally would be required to effect a change in a majority of our board of directors. • Removal of directors. Under our charter, subject to the rights of one or more classes or series of preferred stock to elect one or more directors, a director may be removed only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all votes entitled to be cast by our stockholders generally in the election of directors. • Number of directors, board vacancies, term of office. Under our bylaws, we have elected to be subject to certain provisions of Maryland law which vest in the board of directors the exclusive right to determine the number of directors and the exclusive right, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, to fill vacancies on the board of directors even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum. These provisions of Maryland law, which are applicable even if other provisions of Maryland law or the charter or bylaws provide to the contrary, also provide that any director elected to fill a vacancy shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred, rather than the next annual meeting of stockholder as would otherwise be the case, and until his or her successor is elected and qualified. • Limitation on stockholder requested special meetings. Our bylaws provide that our stockholders have the right to call a special meeting only upon the written request of our stockholders entitled to cast not less than a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast by our stockholders at such meeting. • Advance notice provisions for stockholder nominations and proposals. Our bylaws require advance written notice for our stockholders to nominate persons for election as directors at, or to bring other business before, any meeting of our stockholders. This bylaw provision limits the ability of our stockholders to make nominations of persons for election as directors or to introduce other proposals unless we are notified in a timely manner prior to the meeting. • Exclusive authority of our board to amend our bylaws. Our bylaws provide that the board of directors has the exclusive power to adopt, alter or repeal any provision of our bylaws or to make new bylaws. Thus, our stockholders may not effect any changes to our bylaws. • Preferred stock. Under our charter, the board of directors has authority to issue preferred stock from time to time in one or more series and to establish the terms, preferences and rights of any such series of preferred stock, all without approval of our stockholders. • Duties of directors with respect to unsolicited takeovers. Maryland law provides protection for Maryland corporations against unsolicited takeovers by limiting, among other things, the duties of the directors in unsolicited takeover situations. The duties of directors of Maryland corporations do not require them to (i) accept, recommend or respond to any proposal by a person seeking to acquire control of the corporation, (ii) authorize the corporation to redeem any rights under, or modify or render inapplicable, any stockholders rights plan, (iii) make a determination under the Maryland Business Combination Act or the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, or (iv) act or fail to act solely because of the effect of an act or failure to act may have on an acquisition or potential acquisition of control of the corporation or the amount or type of consideration that may be offered or paid to the stockholders in an acquisition. Moreover, under Maryland law the act of the directors of a Maryland corporation relating to or affecting an acquisition or potential acquisition of control is not subject to any higher duty or greater scrutiny than is applied to any other act of a director. Maryland law also contains a statutory presumption that an act of a director of a Maryland corporation satisfies the applicable standards of conduct for directors under Maryland law. • Ownership limit. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT and provide that, unless exempted by our board of directors, no single stockholder, or any group of affiliated stockholders, may beneficially owning more than 9.8%, as such percentage may be modified by the Board of Directors from time to time, in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of any 44 Table of Contents class or series of our capital stock. Our board of directors also has authority under our charter to impose a similar ownership limitation as to any separate class or series of preferred stock we may issue in the future. Our board of directors may grant an exemption from that ownership limit in its sole discretion, subject to such conditions, representations and undertakings as it may determine and as are consistent with ensuring compliance with the REIT provisions of the Code. • Maryland Business Combination Act. The Maryland Business Combination Act provides that unless exempted, a Maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations, including mergers, dispositions of 10% or more of its assets, certain issuances of shares of stock and other specified transactions, with an “interested stockholder” or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria are met. An interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding stock of a Maryland corporation. Our board of directors has adopted a resolution exempting it from this statute. However, our board of directors may repeal or modify this resolution in the future, in which case the provisions of the Maryland Business Combination Act will be applicable to business combinations between us and other persons. • Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. Maryland law provides that “control shares” of a corporation acquired in a “control share acquisition” shall have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes eligible to be cast on the matter under the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. “Control shares” means shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock previously acquired by the acquiror, would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of the voting power: one tenth or more but less than one third, one third or more but less than a majority or a majority or more of all voting power. A “control share acquisition” means the acquisition of control shares, subject to certain exceptions. If voting rights or control shares acquired in a control share acquisition are not approved at a stockholders’ meeting, then subject to certain conditions and limitations, the issuer may redeem any or all of the control shares for fair value. If voting rights of such control shares are approved at a stockholders’ meeting and the acquiror becomes entitled to vote a majority of the shares of stock entitled to vote, all other stockholders may exercise appraisal rights. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting acquisitions of our shares from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. However, our board of directors may amend our bylaws in the future to repeal or modify this exemption, in which case any control shares acquired in a control share acquisition will be subject to the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. We may be contractually prohibited from paying dividends. Several of our credit agreements contain prohibitions against our payment of any dividend at any time when there is a default under those credit agreements. A default for this purpose includes a failure to comply with various covenants, including reporting obligations and other nonmonetary obligations, as well as financial conditions that may be beyond our control. A default for this purpose occurs as soon as the failure occurs, even if the credit agreement allows a period for curing the failure. If one of these defaults has occurred and is continuing on the day when a dividend is otherwise payable on New Century’s common stock, we will be unable to pay the dividend unless the lenders on these credit agreements waive the prohibition, or until we cure the default. Failure to pay dividends could also jeopardize our continued qualification as a REIT. Federal Income Tax Risks and Risks Associated with Being a REIT We strongly urge you to consult with your own tax advisor concerning the effects of federal, state and local income tax law on an investment in New Century common stock and on your individual tax situation. 45 Table of Contents If we fail to qualify as a REIT, it could adversely affect our stockholders. We elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2004. To maintain REIT status, we must meet a number of highly technical requirements on a continuing basis. Those requirements seek to ensure, among other things, (i) that the gross income and investments of a REIT are largely real estate related (including mortgages secured by real estate), (ii) that a REIT distributes substantially all its ordinary taxable income to its stockholders on a current basis and (iii) that the REIT’s equity ownership is not overly concentrated. Due to the complex nature of these rules, the available guidance concerning interpretation of the rules, the importance of ongoing factual determinations and the possibility of adverse changes in the law, administrative interpretations of the law and changes in our business, no assurance can be given that we will qualify as a REIT for any particular year. For a summary of these technical requirements, see “Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations.” If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will be taxed as a regular corporation, and distributions to our stockholders will not be deductible in computing our taxable income. The resulting corporate income tax liabilities could materially reduce the distributable cash flow to our stockholders and funds available for reinvestment. Moreover, we might not be able to elect to be treated as a REIT for the next four taxable years after the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT. In addition, if we later re-qualified as a REIT, we might be required to pay a full corporate-level tax on any unrealized gains in our assets as of the date of re-qualification and to make distributions to our stockholders equal to any earnings accumulated during the period of non-REIT status. If we do not maintain our status as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to our stockholders. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our stockholders. To maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, we must annually distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, exclusive of the income of our taxable REIT subsidiaries and excluding the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gains, if any. This requirement limits our ability to accumulate capital. We may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the distribution requirements. Difficulties in meeting the distribution requirements might arise due to competing demands for our funds or to timing differences between tax reporting and cash receipts and disbursements, because income may have to be reported before cash is received, because expenses may have to be paid before a deduction is allowed or because deductions may be disallowed or limited, or the IRS may make a determination that adjusts reported income. In those situations, we might be required to borrow funds on adverse terms in order to meet the distribution requirements and interest and penalties could apply. If we fail to make a required distribution, we would cease to be taxed as a REIT. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities, including certain acquisitions. In order to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must satisfy tests concerning, among other things, our sources of income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may also be required to make distributions to our stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with REIT requirements may cause us to forego opportunities, including certain acquisitions, we would otherwise pursue. The tax imposed on REITs engaging in “prohibited transactions” will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing mortgage loans, that would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property but including any mortgage loans held in inventory primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were, at the REIT level, to sell a mortgage loan or securitize the loans in a manner 46 Table of Contents that was treated as a sale of such inventory for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of mortgage loans other than through our taxable REIT subsidiaries and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial for us. In addition, this prohibition may limit our ability to restructure our portfolio of mortgage loans from time to time even if we believe it would be in our best interest to do so. We will incur excess inclusion income that will increase the tax liability of our stockholders. Excess inclusion income that is allocated to our tax-exempt stockholders will be fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income under Section 512 of the Code. If a stockholder is foreign, it generally will be subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding on the excess inclusion income without reduction pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. U.S. stockholders will not be able to offset such income with net operating losses. Excess inclusion income is generated when we issue debt obligations with two or more maturities and the terms of the payments on these obligations bear a relationship to the payments that we received on our mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities securing those debt obligations. Since electing to be taxed as a REIT, we have engaged in non-REMIC CMO securitizations. These CMO securitizations have been structured so that these borrowings will give rise to excess inclusion income, and it is probable that future CMO securitizations will be structured in a similar manner. We may also enter into various repurchase agreements that have differing maturity dates and afford the lender the right to sell any pledged mortgage securities if we default on our obligations. Excess inclusion income could also result if we were to hold a residual interest in a REMIC. Finally, we may invest in equity securities of other REITs and it is possible that we might receive excess inclusion income from those investments. The amount of excess inclusion income in any given year from these activities, transactions and investments could be significant. Even if we continue to qualify as a REIT, the income earned by our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be subject to federal income tax and we could be subject to an excise tax on non-arm’s-length transactions with our taxable REIT subsidiaries. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries, including New Century TRS and its subsidiaries, expect to earn income from activities that are prohibited for REITs, and will owe income taxes on the taxable income from these activities. For example, we expect that New Century TRS and its subsidiaries will earn income from our mortgage loan origination and sales activities, as well as from other origination and servicing functions, which would generally not be qualifying income for purposes of the gross income tests applicable to REITs or might otherwise be subject to adverse tax liability if the income were generated by a REIT. New Century TRS and its subsidiaries will be taxable as C corporations and will be subject to federal, state and local income tax at the applicable corporate rates on their taxable income, notwithstanding our qualification as a REIT. In the event that any transactions between us and New Century TRS and its subsidiaries are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis, we could be subject to an excise tax on certain amounts from such transactions. We believe that all such transactions will be conducted on an arm’s-length basis, but there can be no assurance that the IRS will not successfully contest the arm’s-length nature of such transactions or that we will otherwise be able to avoid application of the excise tax varying in an amount equal to 20% to 100% of the gross adjustment to the taxable portion of the intercompany transaction depending on the character of the income or expense event. Any such tax could affect our overall profitability and the amounts of distributions to our stockholders. We may, at some point in the future, borrow funds from one or more of our corporate subsidiaries. Although any such intercompany borrowings will be structured so as to constitute indebtedness for all tax purposes, no assurance can be given that the IRS will not challenge such arrangements, in which case the borrowing may be re-characterized as a dividend distribution to us by our subsidiary. Any such re-characterization may cause us to fail one or more of the REIT requirements. 47 Table of Contents We may be harmed by changes in tax laws applicable to REITs, or the reduced 15% tax rate on certain corporate dividends. Changes to the laws and regulations affecting us, including changes to securities laws and changes to the Code applicable to the taxation of REITs may harm our business. New legislation may be enacted into law or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, any of which could harm us and our stockholders, potentially with retroactive effect. Generally, dividends paid by REITs are not eligible for the 15% U.S. federal income tax rate on certain corporate dividends, with certain exceptions. The more favorable treatment of regular corporate dividends could cause domestic non-corporate investors to consider stocks of other corporations that pay dividends as more attractive than stocks of REITs. It is not possible to predict whether the reduced 15% tax rate on certain corporate dividends will affect the market price of our common stock or what the effect will be. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 