Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K, with respect to any investment in our common stock. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Potential writedowns or losses with respect to three portfolio investments that are on our credit “watch list,” or on other portfolio investments, existing and to be made in the future could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, dividend level, net asset value and stock price. As of the date of this filing, loans we have made to Unity Virginia Holdings LLC (“Unity”), Whymore Coal Company (“Whymore”) and Worcester Energy Partners, Inc. (“Worcester”) are on our credit “watch list” due to existing or potential payment and existing or potential covenant defaults under the contracts governing such investments. Unity has filed a voluntary bankruptcy petition under Chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy Code and is currently in default under the contract governing the investment. Unity is in the process of liquidating its assets. Our security interest in Unity’s assets is a second priority lien, and the net proceeds from the sale or liquidation of Unity’s assets may not satisfy in full the debt owed to the holder of the first priority lien on Unity’s assets. Our lack of control over the liquidation of Unity’s assets, our second lien security position in such assets and the prospect that Unity’s assets have substantially decreased in value could result in our losing our entire investment in Unity. In addition, if the bankruptcy court were to set aside as preferential payments or we were otherwise deemed not to have recognized any amounts previously paid to us by Unity, our net investment income could be materially adversely affected. As of June 30, 2006, Unity was valued at $2.8 million, which represented 2.5% of the net asset value of the fund. Whymore and Worcester have experienced liquidity problems, and the Investment Adviser believes both portfolio companies could continue to experience covenant and/or payment defaults under the contracts governing our investments in those companies. We have provided, and may in the future provide, additional capital to Whymore and Worcester to provide liquidity to those portfolio companies, to enable them to pay operating expenses, including debt service, and for capital expenditures. While we have a first priority security interest in the assets of both Whymore and Worcester, the net realizable value of such collateral may be substantially less than the balances outstanding on the loans to those entities. Moreover, either of those portfolio companies may fail to pay principal and/or interest on their outstanding debts to us. Upon further analysis of the values of these investments, we could determine that the fair value of these investments should be reduced substantially, possibly to zero. If any of these events were to occur, our results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected, our net asset value could be substantially reduced, our dividend could be reduced or limited and the market price for our stock could be substantially adversely affected. 18 Risks Relating To Our Business And Structure We are dependent upon Prospect Management’s key management personnel for our future success. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the senior management of Prospect Management. We also depend, to a significant extent, on our Investment Adviser’s access to the investment professionals and the information and deal flow generated by these investment professionals in the course of their investment and portfolio management activities. For a description of the senior management team, see “Management.” The senior management team evaluates, negotiates, structures, closes, monitors and services our investments. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of the senior management team, particularly John F. Barry III and M. Grier Eliasek. The departure of any of the senior managers of Prospect Management or termination of the management agreement could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. In addition, we can offer no assurance that Prospect Management will remain our Investment Adviser or that we will continue to have access to its investment professionals or its information and deal flow. Our Investment Adviser and its senior management have limited experience managing a business development company under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies. For example, business development companies are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets primarily in securities of privately held or thinly traded U.S. public companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. Our Investment Adviser’s and its senior management’s limited experience in managing a portfolio of assets under such constraints may hinder their ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and, as a result, achieve our investment objective. In addition, our investment strategies differ in some ways from those of other investment funds that have been managed in the past by our Investment Adviser’s investment professionals. We are a relatively new company with limited operating history. We were incorporated in April 2004 and have conducted investment operations since July 2004. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise, including the risk that we may not achieve our investment objective and that the value of your investment in us could decline substantially or fall to zero. We completed our initial public offering on July 27, 2004. As of June 30, 2006, we continue to pursue our investment strategy with approximately 123.7% of our net assets or about $134.0 million invested in fifteen long-term portfolio investments and 1.5% of our net assets invested in a money market fund. The remaining (25.2%) of our net assets represents liabilities in excess of other assets. If we do not realize yields in excess of our expenses, we may incur operating losses and the market price of our shares may decline. If our primary investments are deemed not to be qualifying assets, we could lose our status as a business development company or be precluded from investing according to our current business plan. In order to maintain our status as a business development company, we must not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. If we acquire mezzanine loans or dividend-paying equity securities from an issuer that has outstanding marginable securities at the time we make an investment, these acquired assets cannot be treated as qualifying assets. See “Regulation — Qualifying Assets” in the accompanying document. This result follows the definition of “eligible portfolio company” under the 1940 Act, which in part looks to whether a company has outstanding marginable securities. 19 Amendments promulgated in 1998 by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to Regulation T under the Exchange Act expanded the definition of marginable security to include any non-equity security. These amendments have raised questions as to whether a private company that has outstanding debt securities would qualify as an eligible portfolio company. We believe that the mezzanine loans and equity instruments that we have acquired and expect to continue to acquire should constitute qualifying assets because the privately held companies to which we lend do not, at the time of our investment, have outstanding marginable securities. Until the questions raised by the amendments to Regulation T have been clarified through SEC rulemaking or addressed by legislative, administrative or judicial action, we intend to treat as qualifying assets only those mezzanine loans that are not investment grade, do not have a public secondary market, and are issued by a private issuer that does not have outstanding a class of margin eligible securities at the time of our investment. Likewise, we treat equity securities issued by a portfolio company as qualifying assets only if such securities are issued by a private company that has no marginable securities outstanding at the time we purchase such securities. To date, we do not believe that either the SEC or its staff has taken any position with respect to our analysis of the issues discussed above and neither the SEC or its staff has indicated that they concur with our analysis. We intend to adjust our investment focus as needed to comply with and/or take advantage of any future administrative position, judicial decision or legislative action. If there were a court ruling or regulatory decision that conflicts with our interpretations, we could lose our status as a business development company or be precluded from investing in the manner described in this document, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “— Regulations governing our operation as a business development company affect our ability to raise, and the way in which we raise, additional capital” in the accompanying document. Such a ruling or decision also may require that we dispose of investments that we made based on our interpretation of Regulation T. Such dispositions could have a material adverse effect on us and our stockholders. We may need to dispose of such investments quickly, which would make it difficult to dispose of such investments on favorable terms. In addition, because these types of investments will generally be illiquid, we may have difficulty in finding a buyer and, even if we do find a buyer, we may have to sell the investments at a substantial loss. See “— The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business” in the accompanying document. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to manage our future growth effectively. Prospect Management has been registered as an investment adviser since March 31, 2004, and Prospect Energy has been organized as a closed-end investment company since April 13, 2004. Each entity is subject to the business risks and uncertainties associated with any young business enterprise, including the limited experience in managing or operating a business development company under the 1940 Act. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our ability to grow, which depends, in turn, on our Investment Adviser’s ability to continue to identify, analyze, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our Investment Adviser’s structuring of investments, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us and our access to financing on acceptable terms. As we grow, we and Prospect Management need to continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. Failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make in middle market energy companies. We compete with other business development companies, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks and commercial financing companies. Additionally, because competition for investment opportunities generally has increased among alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds, those entities have begun to invest in areas in which they have not traditionally invested, including investments in middle-market companies. As a result of these new entrants, competition for investment opportunities in middle-market companies has intensified, and we expect that trend to continue. Many of our existing and potential competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of existing and increasing competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. We do not seek to compete primarily based on the interest rates that we offer. We believe that some of our competitors make loans with interest rates that are comparable to or lower than the rates we offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. If we match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit loss. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company affect our ability to raise, and the way in which we raise, additional capital. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a business development company, to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments or sell additional shares of common stock and, depending on the nature of our leverage, to repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. In addition, issuance of additional securities could dilute the percentage ownership of our current stockholders in us. As a business development company regulated under provisions of the 1940 Act, we are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below the current net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of our common stock in a rights offering to our stockholders or if (1) our board of directors determines that such sale is in the Company’s best interests and our stockholders, (2) our stockholders approve the sale of our common stock at a price that is less than the current net asset value, and (3) the price at which our common stock is to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any sales load). In addition, we may in the future seek to securitize our loans to generate cash for funding new investments. To securitize loans, we may create a wholly owned subsidiary and contribute a pool of loans to such subsidiary. This could include the sale of interests in the subsidiary on a non-recourse basis to purchasers who we would expect to be willing to accept a lower interest rate to invest in investment grade loan pools. We would retain a portion of the equity in the securitized pool of loans. An inability to successfully securitize our loan portfolio could limit our ability to grow our business and fully execute our business strategy, and could decrease our earnings, if any. Moreover, the successful securitization of our loan portfolio might expose us to losses because the residual loans in which we do not sell interests may tend to be those that are riskier and more likely to generate losses. 21 If we fail to qualify as a RIC, we will have to pay corporate-level taxes on our income and our income available for distribution would be reduced. To maintain our qualification as a RIC under the Code, and obtain RIC tax treatment, we must meet certain source of income, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to our stockholders on an annual basis. Because we expect to use debt financing in the future, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify for RIC tax treatment. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax. To maintain our qualification as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments are in private companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason or become subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution, and the actual amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our shares. For additional information regarding asset coverage ratio and RIC requirements, see “Regulation — Senior securities” and “Material U.S. federal income tax considerations.” We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For federal income tax purposes, we include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, or payment-in-kind interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such original issue discount, which could be significant relative to our overall investment activities, or increases in loan balances as a result of payment-in-kind arrangements, are included in our income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we do not receive in cash. While we focus primarily on investments that will generate a current cash return, our investment portfolio may also include securities that do not pay some or all of their return in periodic current cash distributions. The income incentive fee payable by us is computed and paid on income that may include interest that has been accrued but not yet received in cash. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan that is structured to provide accrued interest, it is possible that accrued interest previously used in the calculation of the income incentive fee will become uncollectible. Since in some cases we may recognize taxable income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement to distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to maintain RIC tax treatment. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. See “Material U.S. federal income tax considerations — Taxation as a RIC” in the accompanying document. If we issue senior securities, including debt, you will be exposed to additional risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage. You will be exposed to increased risk of loss if we incur debt to make investments. If we do incur debt, a decrease in the value of our investments or in our revenues would have a greater negative impact on the value of our common stock than if we did not use debt. 22 Our ability to pay dividends would be restricted if our asset coverage ratio were not at least 200% and any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for dividends to our common stockholders. It is likely that any debt we incur will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. We and you will bear the cost of issuing and servicing our senior securities. Any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net investment income. We expect that a significant portion of our debt investments will bear interest at fixed rates and the value of these investments could be negatively affected by increases in market interest rates. In addition, an increase in interest rates would make it more expensive to use debt to finance our investments. As a result, a significant increase in market interest rates could both reduce the value of our portfolio investments and increase our cost of capital, which would reduce our net investment income. We need to raise additional capital to grow because we must distribute most of our income. We need additional capital to repay borrowings under our revolving credit facility and to fund new investments. A reduction in the availability of new capital could limit our ability to grow. We must distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to our shareholders to maintain our RIC status. As a result, such earnings are not available to fund investment originations. We have sought additional capital by borrowing from financial institutions and may issue debt securities or additional equity securities. If we fail to obtain funds from such sources or from other sources to fund our investments, it could limit our ability to grow, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. In addition, as a business development company, we are generally required to maintain a ratio of at least 200% of total assets to total borrowings, which may restrict our ability to borrow in certain circumstances. Most of our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors and, as a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. A large percentage of our portfolio investments consist of securities of privately held or thinly traded public companies. The fair value of these securities is often not readily determinable. The determination of fair value, and thus the amount of unrealized gains or losses we may incur in any year, is to a degree subjective, and the Investment Adviser has a conflict of interest in making the determination. We value these securities quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors based on input from our Investment Adviser, a third party independent valuation firm and our audit committee. Our board of directors utilizes the services of an independent valuation firm to assist in determining the fair value of any securities. Certain factors that may be considered in determining the fair value of our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s earnings, cash flows and ability to make payments, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, the valuations may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates the assumptions underlying which are erroneous. The determinations of fair value by our board of directors may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if the determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. 23 The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We generally make investments in private companies. Substantially all of these securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or are otherwise less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we or our Investment Adviser has material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest or dividend rates payable on the debt or equity securities we acquire, the default rate on debt securities, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, the seasonality of the energy industry, weather patterns, world events, changes in energy prices and general economic conditions. Several of these factors are outside our control. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Potential conflicts of interest could impact our investment returns. Our executive officers and directors, and the executive officers of our Investment Adviser may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or related lines of business as we do or of investment funds managed by our affiliates. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. It is possible that new investment opportunities that meet our investment objective may come to the attention of one these entities in connection with another investment advisory client or program, and, if so, such opportunity might not be offered, or otherwise made available, to us. However, as an investment adviser, Prospect Management has a fiduciary obligation to act in the best interests of its clients, including us. To that end, if Prospect Management or its affiliates manage any additional investment vehicles or client accounts in the future, Prospect Management will endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner over time so as not to discriminate unfairly against any client. If Prospect Management chooses to establish another investment fund in the future, when the investment professionals of Prospect Management identify an investment, they will have to choose which investment fund should make the investment. In the course of our investing activities, under the Investment Advisory Agreement we pay base management and incentive fees to Prospect Management, and reimburse Prospect Management for certain expenses it incurs. As a result of the Investment Advisory Agreement, there may be times when the management team of Prospect Management has interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict. Prospect Management receives a quarterly income incentive fee based, in part, on our pre-incentive fee net investment income, if any, for the immediately preceding calendar quarter. This income incentive fee is subject to a quarterly hurdle rate before providing an income incentive fee return to the Investment Adviser. To the extent we or Prospect Management are able to exert influence over our portfolio companies, the income incentive fee may provide Prospect Management with an incentive to induce our portfolio companies to accelerate or defer interest or other obligations owed to us from one calendar quarter to another. If our Investment Adviser terminates its voluntary agreement to have the income incentive fee be subject to a fluctuating hurdle rate, the hurdle rate would be fixed. Thus, if interest rates rise, it would become easier for our investment income to exceed the hurdle rate and, as a result, more likely that our Investment Adviser will receive an income incentive fee than if interest rates on our investments remained constant or decreased. Subject to the receipt of any requisite shareholder approval under the 1940 Act, our board of directors may readjust the hurdle rate by amending the Investment Advisory Agreement. 24 The income incentive fee payable by Prospect Energy is computed and paid on income that may include interest that has been accrued but not yet received in cash. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan that has a deferred interest feature, it is possible that interest accrued under such loan that has previously been included in the calculation of the income incentive fee will become uncollectible. If this happens, our Investment Adviser is not required to reimburse us for any such income incentive fee payments. If we do not have sufficient liquid assets to pay this incentive fee or distributions to stockholders on such accrued income, we may be required to liquidate assets in order to do so. This fee structure could give rise to a conflict of interest for our Investment Adviser to the extent that it may encourage the Investment Adviser to favor debt financings that provide for deferred interest, rather than current cash payments of interest. In addition, the amount of the Investment Adviser’s compensation under the incentive fee, is due, in part to the amount of unrealized depreciation accrued by the Company. We have entered into a royalty-free license agreement with Prospect Management. Under this agreement, Prospect Management agrees to grant us a non-exclusive license to use the name “Prospect Energy.” Under the license agreement, we have the right to use the “Prospect Energy” name for so long as Prospect Management or one of its affiliates remains our Investment Adviser. In addition, we rent office space from Prospect Administration, an affiliate of Prospect Management, and pay Prospect Administration our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by Prospect Administration in performing its obligations as Administrator under the administration agreement, including rent and our allocable portion of the costs of our chief financial officer and chief compliance officer and their respective staffs. This may create conflicts of interest that our board of directors monitors. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state and federal levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, changes in these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. For additional information regarding the regulations we are subject to, see “Regulation” in the accompanying document. Risks Related To Our Investments We may not realize gains or income from our investments. We seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation. However, the securities we invest in may not appreciate and, in fact, may decline in value, and the issuers of debt securities we invest in may default on interest and/or principal payments. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our investments, and any gains that we do realize may not be sufficient to offset any losses we experience. Our portfolio is concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies in the energy industry, which subjects us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations under any of the securities that we hold or if the energy industry experiences a downturn. As of September 27, 2006, we held investments in 17 portfolio companies. A consequence of this lack of diversification is that the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if a small number of such investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Beyond our income tax diversification requirements, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments are concentrated in relatively few portfolio companies. We estimate that, once we have invested substantially all of the net proceeds of our recent equity offering and fully utilized our credit facility, we will have invested in approximately 25 to 35 portfolio companies, depending on the availability of appropriate investment opportunities consistent with our investment objective and market conditions. In addition, we concentrate on making investments in the energy industry and will invest, under normal circumstances, at least 80% of the value of our net assets (including the amount of any borrowings for investment purposes) in energy companies. As a result, a downturn in the energy industry could materially adversely affect us. 25 The energy industry is subject to many risks. We concentrate our investments in the energy industry. Our definition of energy, as used in the context of the energy industry, is broad, and different sectors of the energy industry may be subject to various risks and economic pressures. As a result, it is difficult to anticipate the impact of changing economic and political conditions on our portfolio companies and, as a result, our financial results. The revenues, income (or losses) and valuations of energy companies can fluctuate suddenly and dramatically due to any one or more of the following factors, among others: Commodity Pricing Risk. While we generally do not invest in companies that accept completely unhedged commodity risk, energy companies in general are directly affected by energy commodity prices, such as the market prices of crude oil, natural gas and wholesale electricity, especially for those who own the underlying energy commodity. In addition, the volatility of commodity prices can affect other energy companies due to the impact of prices on the volume of commodities transported, processed, stored or distributed and on the cost of fuel for power generation companies. The volatility of commodity prices can also affect energy companies’ ability to access the capital markets in light of market perception that their performance may be directly tied to commodity prices. Historically, energy commodity prices have been cyclical and exhibited significant volatility. Currently, crude oil prices are near record high levels. Although we require adherence to strict risk controls, including appropriate commodity and other hedges, by each of our portfolio companies, some of our portfolio companies may not engage in hedging transactions to minimize their exposure to commodity price risk. For those companies that engage in such hedging transactions, they remain subject to market risks, including market liquidity and counterparty creditworthiness. Regulatory Risk. The profitability of energy companies could be adversely affected by changes in the regulatory environment. The businesses of energy companies are heavily regulated by federal, state and local governments in diverse manners, such as the way in which energy assets are constructed, maintained and operated and the prices energy companies may charge for their products and services. Such regulation can change over time in scope and intensity. For example, a particular by-product of an energy process may be declared hazardous by a regulatory agency, which can unexpectedly increase production costs. Moreover, many state and federal environmental laws provide for civil and criminal penalties as well as regulatory remediation, thus adding to the potential liability an energy company and its officers may face. In addition, the deregulation of energy markets and the unresolved regulatory issues related to some power markets create uncertainty in the regulatory environment as rules and regulations may be adopted on a transitional basis. We cannot assure you that the deregulation of energy markets will continue and if it continues, whether its impact on energy companies’ profitability will be positive. Production Risk. The profitability of energy companies may be materially impacted by the volume of crude oil, natural gas or other energy commodities available for transporting, processing, storing, distributing or power generation. A significant decrease in the production of natural gas, crude oil, coal or other energy commodities, due to the decline of production from existing facilities, import supply disruption, depressed commodity prices, political events, OPEC actions or otherwise, could reduce revenue and operating income or increase operating costs of energy companies and, therefore, their ability to pay debt or dividends. In recent months, OPEC has announced changes in production quotas in response to changing market conditions, including near record high oil prices in the United States. Demand Risk. A sustained decline in demand for crude oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products and electricity could materially affect revenues and cash flows of energy companies. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand include a recession or other adverse economic conditions, an increase in the market price of the underlying commodity, higher taxes or other regulatory actions that increase costs, or a shift in consumer demand for such products. 26 Depletion and Exploration Risk. A portion of any one energy company’s assets may be dedicated to natural gas, crude oil and/or coal reserves and other commodities that naturally deplete over time. Depletion could have a material adverse impact on such company’s ability to maintain its revenue. Further, estimates of energy reserves may not be accurate and, even if accurate, reserves may not be fully utilized at reasonable costs. Exploration of energy resources, especially of oil and gas, is inherently risky and requires large amounts of capital. Weather Risk. Unseasonable or extreme weather patterns could result in significant volatility in demand for energy and power. This volatility may create fluctuations in earnings of energy companies. Operational Risk. Energy companies are subject to various operational risks, such as failed drilling or well development, unscheduled outages, underestimated cost projections, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses, failure to obtain the necessary permits to operate and failure of third-party contractors (for example, energy producers and shippers) to perform their contractual obligations. In addition, energy companies employ a variety of means of increasing cash flow, including increasing utilization of existing facilities, expanding operations through new construction, expanding operations through acquisitions, or securing additional long-term contracts. Thus, some energy companies may be subject to construction risk, acquisition risk or other risk factors arising from their specific business strategies. Competition Risk. The progress in deregulating energy markets has created more competition in the energy industry. This competition is reflected in risks associated with marketing and selling energy in the evolving energy market and a competitor’s development of a lower-cost energy or power source, or of a lower cost means of operations, and other risks arising from competition. Valuation Risk. Since mid-2001, excess power generation capacity in certain regions of the United States has caused substantial decreases in the market capitalization of many energy companies. While such prices have recovered to some extent, we can offer no assurance that such decreases in market capitalization will not recur, or that any future decreases in energy company valuations will be insubstantial or temporary in nature. Terrorism Risk. Since the September 11th attacks, the United States government has issued public warnings indicating that energy assets, specifically those related to pipeline infrastructure, production facilities and transmission and distribution facilities, might be specific targets of terrorist activity. The continued threat of terrorism and related military activity will likely increase volatility for prices of natural gas and oil and could affect the market for products and services of energy companies. In addition, any future terrorist attack or armed conflict in the United States or elsewhere may undermine economic conditions in the United States in general. Financing Risk. Some of our portfolio companies rely on the capital markets to raise money to pay their existing obligations. Their ability to access the capital markets on attractive terms or at all may be affected by any of the risks associated with energy companies described above, by general economic and market conditions or by other factors. This may in turn affect their ability to satisfy their obligations with us. Our investments in prospective portfolio companies may be risky, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We invest in companies in the energy industry, most of which have relatively short or no operating histories. These companies are and will continue to be subject to all of the risks and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise, including the risk that these companies may not reach their investment objective or the value of our investment in them may decline substantially or fall to zero. 27 In addition, investment in the middle market energy companies that we are targeting involves a number of other significant risks, including: these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of their equity securities or of any collateral with respect to debt securities and a reduction in the likelihood of our realizing on any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; they may have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; because many of these companies are privately held companies, public information is generally not available about these companies. As a result, we will depend on the ability of our Investment Adviser to obtain adequate information to evaluate these companies in making investment decisions. If our Investment Adviser is unable to uncover all material information about these companies, it may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments; they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; and they may have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in changing businesses with products subject to a risk of obsolescence and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In addition, our executive officers, directors and our Investment Adviser could, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from proposed investments or from our investments in the portfolio companies. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. Our portfolio companies will generally be affected by the conditions and overall strength of the national, regional and local economies, including interest rate fluctuations, changes in the capital markets and changes in the prices of their primary commodities and products. These factors also impact the amount of residential, industrial and commercial growth in the energy industry. Additionally, these factors could adversely impact the customer base and customer collections of our portfolio companies. As a result, many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans or meet other obligations during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase, and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease, during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize a portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt or preferred equity, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt or equity holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to those of other creditors. 28 Our portfolio companies may incur debt or issue equity securities that rank equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We invest primarily in mezzanine debt and dividend-paying equity securities issued by our portfolio companies. Our portfolio companies usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt, or issue other equity securities, that rank equally with, or senior to, the securities in which we invest. By their terms, such instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of dividends, interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of securities ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying the senior security holders, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of securities ranking equally with securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other security holders in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. In addition, we may not be in a position to control any portfolio company in which we invest. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt or preferred equity investors. We may not be able to fully realize the value of the collateral securing our debt investments. Although a substantial amount of our debt investments are protected by holding security interests in the assets of the portfolio companies, we may not be able to fully realize the value of the collateral securing our investments due to one or more of the following factors: since our debt investments are primarily made in the form of mezzanine loans, our liens on the collateral, if any, are subordinated to those of the senior secured debt of the portfolio companies, if any. As a result, we may not be able to control remedies with respect to the collateral; the collateral may not be valuable enough to satisfy all of the obligations under our secured loan, particularly after giving effect to the repayment of secured debt of the portfolio company that ranks senior to our loan; bankruptcy laws may limit our ability to realize value from the collateral and may delay the realization process; our rights in the collateral may be adversely affected by the failure to perfect security interests in the collateral; how effectively the collateral would be liquidated and the value received could be impaired or impeded by the need to obtain regulatory and contractual consents; and by its nature, some or all of the collateral may be illiquid and may have no readily ascertainable market value. The liquidity and value of the collateral could be impaired as a result of changing economic conditions, competition, and other factors, including the availability of suitable buyers. 29 Our incentive fee could induce Prospect Management to make speculative investments. The incentive fee payable by us to Prospect Management may create an incentive for our Investment Adviser to make investments on our behalf that are more speculative or involve more risk than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The way in which the incentive fee payable is determined (calculated as a percentage of the return on invested capital) may encourage the Investment Adviser to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. The use of leverage would increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor holders of our common stock. Similarly, because the Investment Adviser will receive an incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments, the Investment Adviser may invest more than would otherwise be appropriate in companies whose securities are likely to yield capital gains, as compared to income producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns. The incentive fee payable by us to Prospect Management also could create an incentive for our Investment Adviser to invest on our behalf in instruments, such as zero coupon bonds, that have a deferred interest feature. Under these investments, we would accrue interest income over the life of the investment but would not receive payments in cash on the investment until the end of the term. Our net investment income used to calculate the income incentive fee, however, includes accrued interest. For example, accrued interest, if any, on our investments in zero coupon bonds will be included in the calculation of our incentive fee, even though we will not receive any cash interest payments in respect of payment on the bond until its maturity date. Thus, a portion of this incentive fee would be based on income that we may not have yet received in cash. We have not yet identified all of the potential investments for our portfolio. We have not yet identified all of the potential investments for our portfolio, and, thus, you will not be able to evaluate all of our potential investments prior to purchasing our common stock. This factor will increase the uncertainty, and thus the risk, of investing in our common stock. Our investments in foreign securities may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. Our investment strategy contemplates potential investments in securities of foreign companies. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. Although currently all of our investments are, and we expect that most of our investments will be, U.S. dollar-denominated, our investments that are denominated in a foreign currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to mitigate certain risks, but it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against such risks. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize currency or interest rate risks, but we can offer no assurance that such strategies will be effective. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transaction may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. 30 The success of our hedging transactions depends on our ability to correctly predict movements, currencies and interest rates. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. The degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. For a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. It may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net investment income. Because we borrow money to make investments, our net investment income is dependent upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest these funds. As a result, there can be no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of borrowed funds would increase, which would reduce our net investment income. We use a combination of short-term borrowings and equity capital to finance our investing activities. We utilize our revolving line of credit as a means to bridge to long-term financing. These risks are in addition to risks associated with fluctuating interest rates, which can adversely affect the interest income we are owed and that we must pay, in addition to the ability of portfolio companies to pay us, and our ability to pay our debt service and dividends, which could adversely affect us and our stock price. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Such techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. Risks Relating To Our Common Stock There is a risk that you may not receive dividends or that our dividends may not grow or may decline over time. We have made and intend to continue to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow or require any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a business development company, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. See “Price Range of Common Stock and Distributions” in this document. Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law and of our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. The Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or making more difficult a change in control and preventing the removal of incumbent directors. We are covered by the Maryland Business Combination Act (the “Business Combination Act”) to the extent such statute is not superseded by applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. However, our board of directors has adopted a resolution exempting any business combination between us and any other person from the Business Combination Act, subject to prior approval of such business combination by our board of directors, including a majority of our directors who are not interested persons as defined in the 1940 Act. In addition, the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act (the “Control Share Act”) provides that control shares of a Maryland corporation acquired in a control share acquisition have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Control Share Act any and all acquisitions by any person of our shares of stock. If the applicable board resolution is repealed or our board of directors does not otherwise approve a business combination, the Business Combination Act and the Control Share Act (if we amend our bylaws to be subject to that Act) may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. 31 Additionally, under our charter, our board of directors is divided into three classes serving staggered terms and no director may be removed except for cause and upon vote of stockholders holding 662/3% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote on the election of directors. The inability to remove directors and the maintenance of a staggered board could discourage others from pursuing a merger or other change-of-control transaction. Our board of directors may, without stockholder action, authorize the issuance of shares of stock in one or more classes or series, including preferred stock; and our Board of Directors may, without stockholder action, amend our charter to increase the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue. The existence of these provisions, among others, may have a negative impact on the price of our common stock and may discourage third party bids for ownership of our Company. These provisions may prevent any premiums being offered to you for shares of our common stock. Investing in our common stocks may involve a high degree of risk. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies may be speculative and aggressive, and therefore, an investment in our shares may not be suitable for someone with low risk tolerance. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and liquidity of the market for our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include: significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of business development companies or other companies in the energy industry, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or business development companies; loss of RIC status; changes in earnings or variations in operating results; changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; termination of the Investment Advisory Agreement with Prospect Management, or departure of one or more of Prospect Management’s key personnel; operating performance of companies comparable to us; changes in prevailing interest rates; litigation matters; general economic trends and other external factors; and loss of a major funding source. 32 We may allocate the net proceeds from any offering in ways with which you may not agree. We will have significant flexibility in investing the net proceeds of any offering of our common stock. We may use the net proceeds from an offering in ways with which you may not agree or for investments other than those contemplated at the time of such offering, unless such change in the use of proceeds is subject to stockholders’ approval or prohibited by law. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. As of September 27, 2006, we have 12,786,523 shares of common stock outstanding. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or the availability of such common stock for sale could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of common stock should we desire to do so. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 