ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may occasionally make forward-looking statements and estimates such as forecasts and projections of our future performance or statements of our plans and objectives. These forward-looking statements may be contained in, among other things, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, press releases made by us and in oral statements made by our officers. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those contained in such forward-looking statements include, among other things, the risks described below. If we do not enter into amendments to our credit facility prior to the expiration of the temporary waiver, we expect to be in default of various financial covenants at May 31, 2008, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operating as a going concern. Our credit facility requires that we meet certain operating requirements and financial ratios in order to avoid a default or event of default under the facility. These financial covenants are as follows: • Our interest coverage ratio as of the end of any period set forth below must exceed the ratio set forth for such period: Period Ratio Fiscal quarters ending December 31, 2007 through June 30, 2009 3.50:1 Fiscal quarters ending September 30, 2009 through March 31, 2010 3.75:1 Fiscal quarters ending June 30, 2010 through December 31, 2010 4.00:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2011 and June 30, 2011 4.25:1 Fiscal quarters ending September 30, 2011 through March 31, 2012 4.50:1 • Our leverage ratio as of the end of any period set forth below must not exceed the ratio set forth for such period: Period Ratio Fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2007 4.50:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2008 through September 30, 2008 4.25:1 Fiscal quarters ending December 31, 2008 and March 31, 2009 4.00:1 Fiscal quarters ending June 30, 2009 through December 31, 2009 3.75:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2010 through December 31, 2010 3.50:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2011 through March 31, 2012 3.25:1 • Our fixed charge coverage ratio as of the end of any period set forth below must exceed the ratio set forth for such period: Period Ratio Fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2007 1.80:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2008 and thereafter 1.85:1 We were in compliance with the financial ratio covenants at December 31, 2007. While we have not completed our calculations for the covenants for the period ended March 31, 2008, we anticipate we will be in default of our leverage ratio covenant, primarily due to the increased amount of our reported indebtedness as a result of the decline in the value of the U.S. Dollar, and possibly our interest coverage ratio covenant for the period ended March 31, 2008, although we expect to generate cash flow from operations sufficient to service the debt under the credit facility prior to the stated maturity of the debt if there is not otherwise an event of default and acceleration of the maturity of the debt. Further, as described below, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in its report on our 2007 consolidated financial statements related to the uncertainty in our ability to continue as a going concern. The inclusion of that paragraph 14 Table of Contents in its report also constitutes a default under our credit facility. On April 8, 2008, we obtained a temporary waiver from the lenders for these defaults. The waiver is in effect until May 31, 2008. Because the financial ratio covenants become more restrictive over time, we do not expect to be in compliance with certain financial ratio covenants in future periods as well. In order to be in compliance with the financial ratios we would have to substantially improve our financial and operational performance, which may be difficult in the current economic environment. In the event that the lenders under our credit facility decline to provide the Company with a further waiver of past and then-existing defaults for periods subsequent to May 31, 2008, the lenders would have the right to demand immediate repayment of the Company’s obligations under the credit facility. Any such acceleration of the Company’s obligations would likely cause other lenders and contractual counterparties, including counterparties to our interest rate swap agreements and other hedge agreements, to terminate and/or to accelerate the Company’s obligations under other financing and credit instruments and agreements. In such event, or even in the event that the lenders do not accelerate the Company’s obligations, the Company and its subsidiaries may have to file for bankruptcy. The Company is in discussions with the lenders to amend the financial covenants, although no assurances can be given that the Company will successfully amend such covenants, or amend such covenants in a manner sufficient to adequately reduce the risk of default in the near future. In connection with any such amendments, the lenders are likely to condition agreement on substantial increases in the fees and interest rate payable under the credit facility. The Company is also considering other strategic initiatives such as issuing equity or other securities to prepay a portion of our outstanding debt. The reduction of debt would reduce the Company’s leverage ratio and, over time, increase the interest coverage ratio, putting aside any changes in the interest rates applicable to such ratio and changes in Adjusted EBITDA performance. The Company has retained an investment bank to assist it with these strategic initiatives. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete any such strategic initiatives on satisfactory terms. Based upon the foregoing, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in its report on our 2007 consolidated financial statements related to the uncertainty in our ability to continue as a going concern. See “Risks Relating to Our Capital Structure” below. Risks Relating to our Business and the Industry A sustained downturn in the paper industry could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Historically, demand for our products has been driven primarily by the volume of paper produced on a worldwide basis. The profitability of paper producers has historically been highly cyclical due to wide swings in the price of paper, driven to a high degree by the oversupply of paper during periods when paper producers have more aggregate capacity than the market requires. A sustained downturn in the paper industry, either globally or in a particular region, can cause paper manufacturers to reduce production or cease operations, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Paper producers began in 2000 to take actions that seek to structurally improve the balance between the supply of and demand for paper. As part of these efforts, they have shut down many paper-making machines. Between 2001 and 2004 the bulk of these closures occurred in North America and announcements by paper producers for shutdowns of paper-making machines in North America also occurred from 2005 to 2007, although at a reduced level compared to 2001 through 2004. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, there was an increase in the number of planned shutdowns of paper-making machines in Europe, although not at the level experienced in recent years in North America. During 2005, 2006 and 2007, the sales and profitability of our North American and European operations were adversely affected by these shutdowns. Papermakers continue to experience low levels of profitability, and we believe that further consolidation among papermakers, reducing the number of paper producers, and shutdowns of paper-making machines will occur in Europe and North America until there is a better balance between supply and demand for paper and the profit levels of paper producers improve. Additionally, we are seeing a trend that paper producers are placing an increasingly strong emphasis on maintenance cost reduction and as a result are extending the life of roll covers through additional maintenance cycles before replacing them. 15 Table of Contents We may be required to reorganize our operations in response to changing conditions in the paper industry, and such actions may require significant expenditures and may not be successful. In the past few years, we have undertaken various restructuring measures in response to changing market conditions in the paper industry triggered by the decline in paper prices that began in 2001. For example, between January 1, 2003 and December 31, 2007, we incurred costs of approximately $55 million, in addition to approximately $17 million for capital expenditures, in connection with our cost reduction programs, including the closure of nine manufacturing facilities worldwide. We may engage in additional cost reduction programs in the future. We may not recoup the costs of programs we have already initiated, or other programs we may decide to engage in the future, the costs of which may be significant. We experienced added operating costs resulting from shifting production from certain of our closed facilities to other facilities which adversely impacted our cost of sales by approximately $6.4 million, $5.0 million and $0.1 million in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. In connection with any future plant closures, delays or failures in the transition of production from a closed facility to our other facilities could also adversely affect our financial operations. In addition, our profitability may decline if our restructuring efforts do not sufficiently reduce our future costs while at the same time positioning us to maintain or increase our sales. We also expect to implement cost reduction programs in 2008, primarily in North America and Europe, to improve our manufacturing footprint to match market conditions and efficiencies in our operations. We expect to incur additional restructuring expenses of approximately $5 million during 2008, primarily in North America and Europe, to improve our manufacturing footprint to match market conditions and efficiencies in our operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Cost Reduction Programs”. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and compliance with our debt covenants. Our foreign operations expose us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and currency devaluations. We report our financial results in U.S. Dollars, but a substantial portion of our sales, expenses and debt are denominated in Euros and other currencies. As a result, changes in the relative values of U.S. Dollars, Euros and other currencies will affect our levels of sales and profitability. If the value of the U.S. Dollar decreases relative to the value of the Euro and these other currencies, our levels of revenue and profitability will increase since the translation of a certain number of Euros or units of such other currencies into U.S. Dollars for financial reporting purposes will represent more U.S. Dollars. We would expect a similar but opposite effect in a period in which the value of the U.S. Dollar increases. In addition, in the case of sales to customers in certain locations, our sales are denominated in U.S. Dollars or Euros but all or a substantial portion of our associated costs are denominated in a different currency. As a result, changes in the relative values of U.S. Dollars, Euros and any such different currency will affect our profitability. Although in certain circumstances we attempt to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, our hedging strategies may not be effective. In addition, our credit facility contains financial covenants that require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Credit Facility” for a description of the Company’s need to enter into an amendment to the credit facility to address expected non-compliance with these covenants. Even if the credit facility is amended and the financial covenants are made less restrictive, our ability to comply with these covenants will depend in part upon our reported financial results, which as indicated above are directly affected by currency fluctuations. For example, in the event the value of the U.S. Dollar increases relative to the Euro and other currencies in which we conduct business (and ignoring any other changes affecting our financial performance), the amount of our Adjusted EBITDA will decline. Since each of the financial ratio covenants in our credit facility is calculated by reference to the amount of our Adjusted EBITDA, currency fluctuations alone could lower the amount of our Adjusted EBITDA and therefore affect our ability to remain in compliance with our financial ratio covenants. In addition, we have certain indebtedness denominated in foreign currencies. A decline in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to these other currencies will result in an increase in the reported amount of our indebtedness when the amount of such indebtedness is translated into U.S. 16 Table of Contents Dollars for financial reporting purposes. Since the leverage ratio calculated under our credit facility increases based upon the amount of our reported indebtedness, a decline in the value of the U.S. Dollar may result in our failure to maintain a leverage ratio below the maximum levels provided for in our credit facility. In summary, even if the financial covenants are made less restrictive in an amendment to the credit facility and our results of operations meet our expectations when viewed in local currencies, we may not be able to satisfy the financial covenants in our credit facility as a result of currency fluctuations alone and we would be in default under our credit facility and the lenders may call the debt. For additional information about the risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Foreign Exchange.” Increased price competition in our industry could adversely affect our gross margins and net sales. Historically, we and our competitors have been able to sell clothing and roll covers products and services at favorable prices that reflect the value they deliver to customers. This favorable pricing has been particularly available for our more technologically advanced products, such as forming fabrics, press felts and roll covers. In 2006 and 2007, the financial health of our customers and continued pricing pressure from our competitors required us to reduce prices in some cases, eliminate or decrease the size of proposed price increases in other cases, resulting in price decreases in both of our business segments. Further pricing pressure from our competitors may require further price decreases or make us unable to effect planned price increases, which adversely affect our profitability. Our industry is competitive and our future success will depend on our ability to effectively develop and market competitive products. The paper-making consumables industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors are larger than us, have greater financial and other resources and are well-established as suppliers to the markets we serve. In addition, some of our competitors also manufacture paper-making machines and have the ability to initially package sales of their clothing and roll cover products with the sale of their machines and/or to tie the warranties on their machines to the use of their clothing and roll cover products. Our products may not be able to compete successfully with the products of our competitors, which could result in a loss of customers and, as a result, decreased sales and profitability. We compete primarily based on the value our products delivered to our customers. Our value proposition is based on a combination of price and the technology and performance of our products, including the ability of our products to help reduce our customers’ production costs and increase the quality of the paper they produce. Our competitors could develop new technology or products that lead to a reduced demand for our products. In addition, our business depends on our customers regularly needing to replace the clothing and roll covers used on their paper-making machines. Either we or our competitors could develop new technologies that increase the useful life of clothing or roll covers, which could reduce the frequency with which our customers would need to replace their clothing and refurbish or replace their roll covers, and consequently lead to fewer sales. Because we have substantial operations outside the United States, we are subject to the economic and political conditions of foreign nations. We have manufacturing facilities in 14 foreign countries. In 2007, we sold products in approximately 63 countries other than the United States, which represented approximately 72% of our net sales. In 2007, we acquired two roll covers plants in China and, in the fourth quarter of 2007, we have also begun construction of a clothing facility in Vietnam. We have not operated facilities in Vietnam or China before, and we may face challenges in hiring employees, in our relations with various parties, including suppliers and governmental agencies, and in production. Any such problems could adversely impact our operating results and delay the commencement of production at the Vietnam facility. 17 Table of Contents Our foreign operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including risks that: • foreign governments may impose limitations on our ability to repatriate funds; • foreign governments may impose withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to us, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; • an outbreak or escalation of any insurrection or armed conflict may occur; or • foreign governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting our business. The occurrence of any of these conditions could disrupt our business in particular countries or regions of the world, or prevent us from conducting business in particular countries or regions, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, as a holding company we will rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from our subsidiaries to meet our debt obligations. If foreign governments impose limitations on our ability to repatriate funds or impose or increase taxes on remittances or other payments to us, the amount of dividends and other distributions we receive from our subsidiaries could be reduced, which could reduce the amount of cash available to us to meet our debt obligations and pay dividends. We must continue to innovate and improve our products to maintain our competitive advantage. Our ability to retain our customers and increase our business depends on our ability to continually develop new, technologically superior products. We cannot assure that our investments in technological development will be sufficient, that we will be able to create and market new products or that we will be successful in competing against new technologies developed by competitors. We believe that market recognition of the extended life of our roll cover products and the trend towards new paper machine designs which have fewer rolls has been and will continue to negatively impact the demand for our roll cover products. We have seen a trend that paper producers are placing an increasingly strong emphasis on maintenance cost reduction and as a result are extending the life of roll covers through additional maintenance cycles before replacing them. Market recognition of the extended life of our roll covers products negatively impacts the demand for these products. In addition, we have seen a trend towards new paper machine designs which have fewer rolls, also negatively impacting the demand for our roll cover products. If we are not able to offset these negative impacts on the demand for our roll cover products with growth from new roll cover products, the sale of roll cover products in regions which we believe have high growth potential such as China, or from other sources, the volume of our roll cover sales will be adversely affected. We expect our capital expenditures in 2008 to be less than those in 2007 and capital expenditures in 2009 to be lower than in 2008; this planned reduction in capital expenditures could negatively impact our ability to take advantage of growth opportunities. We are in the process of building a clothing manufacturing facility in Vietnam. In first quarter of 2008, we determined to slow the pace of planned capital expenditures for the Vietnam facility and currently expect aggregate Company capital expenditures to be approximately $10 million less in 2008 as compared to 2007 and for capital expenditures to be lower in 2009 than 2008. This reduction in capital expenditures could impact our ability to achieve growth. For example, we expect the Vietnam facility to provide a source of products to serve markets in Asia, which we expect to grow faster than more developed markets, and provide products with lower manufacturing costs for certain other markets. Any delays in the completion of this facility may negatively impact our ability to take advantage of the growth potential of clothing products in Asia or to reduce the cost at which we produce products. 18 Table of Contents As part of our effort to reduce capital expenditures, we cancelled certain previously planned capital expenditures for the period ended March 31, 2008 and are in the process of discussing these cancellations with the supplier. There can be no assurance that these cancellations will not result in substantial penalties. The loss of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Our top ten customers generated 23% of our net sales during 2007. The loss of one or more of our major customers, or a substantial decrease in such customers’ purchases from us, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Because we do not generally have binding long-term purchasing agreements with our customers, there can be no assurance that our existing customers will continue to purchase products from us. We may fail to adequately protect our proprietary technology, which would allow competitors or others to take advantage of our research and development efforts. We rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how, and continuing technological innovation to develop new products and remain competitive. If our competitors learn of our proprietary technology, they may use this information to produce products that are equivalent or superior to our products, which could reduce the sales of our products. Our employees, consultants, and corporate collaborators may breach their obligations not to reveal our confidential information, and any remedies available to us may be insufficient to compensate our damages. Even in the absence of such breaches, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how may otherwise become known to our competitors, or be independently discovered by our competitors, which could adversely affect our competitive position. We may be liable for product defects or other claims relating to our products. Our products could be defective, fail to perform as designed or otherwise cause harm to our customers, their equipment or their products. If any of our products are defective, we may be required to recall the products and/or repair or replace them, which could result in substantial expenses and affect our profitability. Any problems with the performance of our products could harm our reputation, which could result in a loss of sales to customers and/or potential customers. In addition, if our customers believe that they have suffered harm caused by our products, they could bring claims against us that could result in significant liability. A failure of our products could cause substantial damage to a paper-making machine. Any claims brought against us by customers may result in: • diversion of management’s time and attention; • expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, expenses, and payment of damages; • decreased demand for our products and services; and • injury to our reputation. Our insurance may not sufficiently cover a large judgment against us or settlement payment, and is subject to customary deductibles, limits and exclusions. We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under laws protecting the environment and human health. Our operations and facilities are subject to a number of national, state and local laws and regulations protecting the environment and human health in the United States and foreign countries that govern, among other things, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, discharges of pollutants into the air and water and workplace safety. The U.S. federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended (“CERCLA”) provides for responses to, and, in some instances, joint and several liability for releases of, hazardous substances into the environment. Environmental laws also hold current owners or 19 Table of Contents operators of land or businesses liable for their own and for previous owners’ or operators’ releases of hazardous or toxic substances, materials or wastes, pollutants or contaminants, including petroleum and petroleum products. Because of our operations, the history of industrial uses at some of our facilities, the operations of predecessor owners or operators of some of the businesses, and the use and release of hazardous substances at these sites, the liability provisions of environmental laws may affect us. Many of our facilities have experienced some level of regulatory scrutiny in the past and are or may be subject to further regulatory inspections, future requests for investigation or liability for regulated materials management practices. We cannot assure that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with all laws and regulations applicable to us which are designed to protect the environment and human health. We could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and third party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws, relevant common law or the environmental permits required for our operations. We are currently conducting environmental remediation projects at certain of our sites, and we have been identified as a potentially responsible party under CERCLA or similar state requirements for several off-site locations. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, we paid $2.8 million, $2.5 million and $2.1 million, respectively, in connection with the environmental remediation of certain of our facilities. We believe that this environmental remediation is substantially complete. We do not expect any significant further remediation costs to be incurred in connection with these matters and believe that any additional liability in excess of amounts provided which may result from the resolution of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or cash flow. Adverse labor relations could harm our operations and reduce our profitability. As of December 31, 2007, we had 3,734 employees, approximately 21% of whom were subject to protection of various collective bargaining agreements and approximately 52% of whom were subject to job protection as members of trade unions, employee associations or workers’ councils. Approximately 47% of the employees subject to collective bargaining agreements (or approximately 10% of our total employees) were covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire prior to December 31, 2008. We cannot be certain that we will be able to renew such collective bargaining agreements, or enter into new collective bargaining agreements, which do not adversely affect our operating results and that we will be without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. In addition, approximately 88% of the employees subject to job protection as members of trade unions, employer associations or workers’ councils (or approximately 46% of our total employees) were subject to arrangements that expire prior to December 31, 2008. We cannot be certain that the terms of employment applicable to such employees will not change in a manner which adversely affects our operating results. We cannot be certain that we will not experience disruptions in our operations as a result of labor disputes or experience other labor relations issues. If we are unable to maintain good relations with our employees, our ability to produce our products and provide services to our customers could be reduced and/or our production costs could increase, either of which could disrupt our business and reduce our profitability. We may not be able to successfully integrate businesses we have acquired or may acquire in the future into our operations and/or the expected benefits of such acquisitions may not be realized. Our growth strategy may include the acquisition of one or more businesses. For example, in November 2007, we acquired a privately held roll covers business in China, a country in which we have not previously operated manufacturing facilities. Any such acquisition involves numerous risks, which may include: • difficulty in assimilating the operations, technologies, products and the key employees of the acquired businesses; • our inability to maintain the existing customers of the acquired business or succeed in selling the products or services of the acquired business to our existing customers; • a diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; 20 Table of Contents • our entry into regions in which we have not operated in the past where better established competitors may have more experience with the market, political, regulatory and economic environment; • our entry into markets in which competitors have a better established market position than the business we acquire; • the incurrence of significant expenses in completing the acquisitions; and • the assumption of significant liabilities, some of which may be unknown at the time of the acquisition. Our inability to successfully execute any acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Relating to our Capital Structure We do not anticipate paying a dividend on our common stock in the foreseeable future, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As amended by the waiver agreement, our credit facility prohibits the payment of dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, we do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. The elimination of dividends may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the event that we successfully negotiate an amendment to our credit facility or refinance our credit facility or complete any strategic alternatives, our borrowing costs are likely to increase and any additional equity that we raise is likely to be highly dilutive to existing stockholders. As described above, the Company is in the process of negotiating amendments to our credit facility and has retained an investment bank to assist it with strategic initiatives which may include issuing equity or other securities to repay a portion of our outstanding debt. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully negotiate amendments to our credit facility or obtain additional equity on satisfactory terms, or at all. In March 2008, Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s downgraded our senior secured debt to Caa1 and CCC+, respectively. In the event that we are able to negotiate satisfactory amendments to our credit facility, and in view of current turmoil in the credit markets and our lower credit ratings, the lenders are likely to require that we pay substantially higher interest and fees on our credit facility going forward. This may result in increased costs of our operations thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. In addition, if we successfully issue any new equity to generate proceeds to pay down our debt, any such issuance is likely to be highly dilutive to existing stockholders. Such an issuance may also result in the investors being able to assert significant influence over our business and significant transactions. Our current credit facility difficulties could have an adverse impact on our business and increase our operating costs. The fact that we may be in default of our credit facility is likely to cause our customers to seek financial assurances from us before they are willing to continue doing business with us or may instead choose to do business with our competitors. This may result in increased costs of our operations thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. For example, in March 2008 one of our roll covers customers informed us that it had decided to send a roll to a competitor for servicing instead of us because of concerns regarding our financial condition. Recent turmoil in the credit markets generally combined with the recent ratings downgrades is likely to make any borrowings by the Company more expensive. In addition, to the extent we successfully negotiate amendments to our credit facility, the lenders are likely to require a substantial increase in the fees and interest rate payable under the credit facility. 21 Table of Contents If we cannot meet the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) continued listing requirements, the NYSE may delist our common stock which would have an adverse impact on the liquidity and market price of our common stock. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. In the future, we may not be able to meet the continued listing requirements of the NYSE. As previously disclosed in our press release dated March 18, 2008 and our Notification of Late Filing on Form 12b-25 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18, 2008, the Company was not able to file its 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K in a timely manner. On April 2, 2008, we received a letter from the New York Stock Exchange Regulation, Inc. informing us that, as a result of our failure to timely file our 2007 Form 10-K, we are subject to the procedures specified in Section 802.01E (SEC Annual Report Timely Filing Criteria) of the NYSE’s Listed Company Manual. We believe that the filing of this 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K satisfies the NYSE requirements. In addition, the continued listing requirements on the NYSE require, among other things; (i) that the average closing price of our common stock be above $1.00 over 30 consecutive trading days and (ii) that our market capitalization be not less than $75 million if at the same time stockholders equity is less than $75 million over 30 consecutive trading days. On March 19, 2008, the price of our common stock traded at a low of $0.91, although the closing price of our shares on April 4, 2008 was $1.34. On April 4, 2008, our global market capitalization was $61.8 million and on December 31, 2007 our stockholders’ deficit was $1.1 million, as reflected on the balance sheet included in this annual report. If we are unable to satisfy the NYSE criteria for continued listing, our common stock would be subject to delisting. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock, reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing. In the event that we successfully negotiate an amendment to our credit facility or otherwise refinance our credit facility, we are likely to remain subject to restrictive debt covenants that limit our business flexibility by imposing operating and financial restrictions on our operations. Our credit facility imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on our operations that may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. These restrictions will prohibit or limit, among other things: • the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the payment of cash dividends on preferred stock and the issuance of certain redeemable capital stock; • investments and acquisitions; • disposition of assets and subsidiary interests; • transactions with affiliates; • the creation of liens on our assets; • consolidations, mergers and transfers of all or substantially all of our assets; and • our ability to change the nature of our business. The terms of our credit facility include other restrictive covenants and prohibit us from prepaying our other indebtedness while indebtedness under the credit facility is outstanding. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand downturns in our business or take advantage of business opportunities. In addition, the waiver agreement referred to above contains additional restrictive covenants effective during the period commencing on April 8, 2008 and ending May 31, 2008, including: • limitation of additional use of the revolving credit included in our credit facility to not more than $10 million of new letters of credit; • restrictions on entering into contracts outside of the ordinary course of business; 22 Table of Contents • restrictions on the incurrence of new indebtedness and contingent obligations; • restrictions on forgiveness of debt and on loans, advances, dividends, capital contributions or any other investments and on capital expenditures; • restrictions on the creation of new subsidiaries; • restrictions on mergers, consolidations and dispositions of assets; and • restrictions on acquisitions. In the event that we successfully negotiate an amendment to our credit facility or otherwise refinance our credit facility, we are likely to be subject to similar restrictive debt covenants. In the event that we successfully negotiate an amendment to our credit facility or otherwise refinance our credit facility, we will remain highly leveraged even if we issue equity or other securities to repay a portion of our debt, which could impact our financing options and liquidity position. We have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2007, our total amount of outstanding debt, on a consolidated basis, was $666.8 million. The degree to which we are leveraged on a consolidated basis could have important consequences to the holders of our common stock, including: • we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; • our ability in the future to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited; • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and be limited in our ability to withstand competitive pressures; and • our leverage may limit our flexibility to plan for and react to changes in our business or strategy. In the event that we successfully negotiate an amendment to our credit facility, otherwise refinance our credit facility, or raise additional equity, we expect to remain highly leveraged. In the event that we successfully negotiate an amendment to our credit facility, otherwise refinance our credit facility, or raise additional equity, we will continue to require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us, to service our debt and to fund our liquidity needs. Our ability to make payments on, refinance or repay our debt, to fund planned capital expenditures or to expand our business will depend largely upon our future operating performance. Our future operating performance is dependent upon our ability to execute our business strategy successfully. Such performance is also subject to general economic, financial and competitive factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. Even if we successfully negotiate an amendment to our credit facility or otherwise refinance our credit facility, there can be no assurance that our future operating performance will generate sufficient cash to support our cash requirements, or that we will not need to curtail or cease dividend payments, reduce capital expenditures or take other actions designed to conserve our cash in order to make payments required to service our indebtedness. Required payments with respect to our indebtedness will reduce the amount of funds available for other corporate purposes, which could harm our competitiveness and/or limit opportunities to grow our business. 23 Table of Contents To the extent we successfully negotiate amendments to our credit facility, the lenders are likely to require a substantial increase in the fees and interest rate payable under the credit facility. We expect that in the immediate future a significantly greater portion of the cash generated by our business will be used to make required interest and principal payments under our credit facility. As a result of these required payments: • we will have less funds available to devote to research and development, which could reduce our ability to develop new and innovative technologies and products and ultimately affect our ability to remain competitive; • we will have less funds available for capital expenditures, which could inhibit our ability to invest in new or upgraded production equipment and other capabilities, thereby restricting efforts to improve our manufacturing processes, reduce our operating costs, expand product offerings and/or conduct business in new markets; and • we will have reduced flexibility to finance growth or expansion opportunities, which could limit or cause us to forego future opportunities to grow our business. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our liquidity, operating expenses and results. In addition, our senior credit facility has, and likely any replacement credit facility will have, a variable interest rate. As of December 31, 2007, the outstanding principal amount of the term loan portion of the credit facility was $657.5 million. On November 16, 2007, the Company entered into new interest rate swap arrangements. The new interest rate swaps effectively fix the interest rate on approximately 85% of the term loan portion of the Company’s credit facility through 2010. As of December 31, 2007, the weighted average interest rate on the effectively fixed portion of the term loan facility was 7.0%; the weighted average interest rate on the portion of the term loan facility not effectively fixed by interest rate swap contracts, based on the 90-day LIBOR, was 7.55%. We estimate that a 1% increase in the LIBOR rate would increase our interest expense on the term debt by approximately $1.0 million. To the extent that we do enter into a hedging arrangement that effectively fixes the interest rate on a portion of our senior debt after these contracts expire in 2010, the effectively fixed rate may be significantly higher than the effectively fixed rate in effect at December 31, 2007. If we do not enter into new interest rate hedging arrangements when these contracts expire, the interest rate on all of the debt covered by our senior credit facility will fluctuate based on LIBOR and other variable interest rates. To the extent these interest rates increase, our interest expense will increase, in which event, we may have difficulty making interest payments and funding our other costs and our ability to comply with the financial covenants in our credit facility may be adversely affected. The market price of our common stock has been volatile since our initial public offering and may continue to be volatile. Shares of our common stock may continue to experience substantial price volatility, including significant decreases, in response to a number of events, including: • the current situation with our credit facility; • our quarterly operating results; • sales of our common stock by principal stockholders; • issuances of our common stock by us; • future announcements concerning our business; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock and/or changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • actions of competitors; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; 24 Table of Contents • changes in U.S. and foreign government regulation; • general market, economic and political conditions; and • natural disasters, terrorist attacks and acts of war. On March 18, 2008 the price of our common stock declined over 70% to $1.15 after the filing of our Form 12b-25 announcing that we would file late our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class action lawsuits filed against them. On June 7, 2006, a purported class action complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts on behalf of a putative class of investors who purchased shares pursuant or traceable to our initial public offering on or about May 16, 2005 through November 15, 2005 against us, our former Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer. See “Legal Proceedings” below. While we believe that the complaint is without merit, this litigation and other lawsuits, should they be filed against us in the future, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2007, entities associated with Apax Europe IV GP Co. Ltd. (“Apax”) own approximately 54% of our common stock and will therefore have significant influence over our business and significant transactions. As of December 31, 2007 there were 46,028,003 shares of our common stock outstanding, of which 25,043,764 in the aggregate, or approximately 54% were held by Apax WW Nominees Ltd. and Apax-Xerium APIA LP. As a result Apax and its associated entities have a strong ability to influence our business, policies and affairs. To the extent these entities continue to own in excess of 50% of our common stock, they will have the ability to control the outcome of all elections of directors and any stockholder vote regarding a merger or other extraordinary transaction. One representative of Apax serves on our seven-member board of directors, although Apax has no contractual rights to nominate any directors. We cannot be certain that the interests of Apax will be consistent with the interests of other holders of common stock. In addition, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, merger or tender offer, which would deprive shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares of common stock and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Moreover, Apax either alone or with other existing equity investors could effectively receive a premium for transferring ownership to third parties that would not inure to the benefit of investors. In the event that we issue equity or other securities to repay a portion of our outstanding debt, one or more new investors may obtain significant influence over our business and significant transactions. If we are able to successfully issue equity or other securities to repay a portion of our outstanding debt, the investors may, through contractual provisions and/or the percentage of voting securities purchased in such transaction or transactions be able to have a strong ability to influence our business, policies and affairs. We cannot be certain that the interests of these investors will be consistent with the interests of other holders of common stock. In addition, such concentration of ownership or other contractual rights could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, merger or tender offer, which would deprive shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares of common stock and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 