D. Risk Factors The following risk factors could materially and adversely affect our future operating results, and could cause actual events to differ materially from those predicted in our forward looking statements relating to our business. Risks Related to Our Business Our revenue improvement since the third quarter of 2009 may not continue. We experienced significant growth in revenue from 2003 to 2007. However, in 2008 and during the first half of 2009, we experienced dramatic rates of decline in revenue. Our revenue increased by 35.9% from 2006 to $145.5 million in 2007, but then declined by 24.4% in 2007 to $109.9 million in 2008. We also experienced substantial revenue decline in the first half of 2009, which was largely offset by significant revenue growth in the second half of the year. Our revenue in 2009 was $105.1 million, which was 4.4% less than 2008. Our revenue in 2010 was $346.3 million, which was 229.6% higher than 2009. Our revenue in 2011 was $674.3 million, which was 94.7% higher than 2010. Our revenue growth in 2010 and 2011 reflected a substantial increase in our shipments of baseband and radio frequency bundle semiconductors, or Bundle Semiconductors. We have been facing fiercer price pressure from our competitors since the second half year of 2010. In future periods, we do not expect to achieve similar rates of revenue growth as in our historical periods and our current improvement in revenue may not continue. 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS We have a history of losses and may not sustain or increase profitability in the future. We incurred net losses of $11.4 million and $11.7 million in 2004 and 2005, respectively. We were profitable in 2006, 2007 and first two quarters in 2008. In the third and fourth quarters of 2008, we incurred net losses of $31.3 million and $52.8 million, respectively. In the first and second quarters of 2009, we incurred net losses of $8.3 million and $13.1 million, respectively. We returned to profitability in the third quarter of 2009 and recorded net income of $0.6 million and $1.4 million in the third and fourth quarter of 2009, respectively. We recorded net income of $67.2 million in 2010 and $134.5 million in 2011. However, we may not be able to maintain or increase profitability in the future. In particular, our competitors’ behavior and strategies may affect our margins. We may not be able to compete effectively and increase or maintain revenue and market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or potential competitors. If we do not compete successfully, our market share and revenue may decline. We currently sell substantially all of our products directly or via distributors to brand manufacturers, independent design houses, or IDHs, vendors who specialize exclusively in the design of wireless terminals based on customer specifications, and original design manufacturers, or ODMs, contract manufacturers who use their own designs and intellectual property to develop and manufacture wireless terminals for customers. We primarily compete in China with 2G baseband processor solutions providers, such as Intel Mobile Communications GmbH, or IMC, MediaTek, Inc., or MediaTek, MStar Semiconductor Inc., or MStar, and ST-Ericsson. We also compete in the Chinese 3G market with baseband processor solutions providers such as Leadcore Technology Co., Ltd., Marvell Technology Group Ltd., or Marvell, MediaTek, and ST-Ericsson. As we expand our business, we may compete in the future with additional baseband processor solutions providers, such as Broadcom Corporation, or Broadcom, Qualcomm Incorporated, or Qualcomm, or emerging Chinese companies such as RDA Microelectronics, Inc., or RDA who entered the baseband processor market through recent acquisition of all of the baseband intellectual property of Coolsand Holding Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries, or Coolsand. For our radio frequency, or RF, transceivers, we may see competition from emerging Chinese companies such as RDA. Most of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources, brand recognition and a larger base of customers than we do. This provides them with competitive advantages. Their significantly greater resources may enable them to invest substantially more resources than us to respond to the adoption of new or emerging technologies, or wireless industry standards, or changes in customer requirements. In addition, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing or potential customers. Moreover, many of our competitors have been doing business with customers for a longer period of time and have established relationships, which may provide them with information regarding future trends and requirements that may not be available to us. Additionally, some of our larger competitors may be able to provide greater incentives to customers through rebates and marketing development funds and similar programs. Some of our competitors with multiple product lines may bundle their products to offer a broader product portfolio or integrate wireless functionality into other products that we do not sell, which may make it difficult for us to gain or maintain market share. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers, and our ability to accurately forecast demand for and sales of our products is limited, which may result in excess or insufficient inventory and significant uncertainty and volatility with respect to our revenue from period to period. We sell substanially all of our products to IDHs, ODMs and brand manufacturers directly or via distributors, who integrate our baseband semiconductors into wireless handsets and other forms of wireless terminals such as wireless desktop phones, data cards and other forms of TD-SCDMA products that they supply to their customers. We have limited visibility as to the volume of our products that our IDH and ODM customers are selling to their customers or are carrying in their inventory. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers and our sales are made on the basis of individual purchase orders. Our customers may cancel or defer purchase orders. Our customers’ purchase orders may vary significantly from period to period, and it is difficult to forecast future order quantities. The lead time required by the semiconductor manufacturing service providers we use to manufacture, assemble and test our products is typically longer than the lead time that our customers provide to us for delivery of our products to them. Therefore, to ensure availability of our products for our customers, we typically ask our semiconductor manufacturing service providers to start manufacturing, assembling and testing our products based on forecasts 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS provided by our customers in advance of receiving purchase orders. However, these forecasts are not binding purchase commitments, and we do not recognize revenue from these products until they are shipped to and accepted by customers. Accordingly, we incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated revenue. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will continue to place purchase orders with us in the future at the same level as in prior periods or that the volume of our customers’ purchase orders will be consistent with our expectations when we plan our expenditures in advance of receiving purchase orders. Our anticipated demand for our products may not materialize. In addition, manufacturing based on customer forecasts exposes us to risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased product obsolescence, which may increase our costs. If we overestimate demand for our products or if purchase orders are cancelled or shipments delayed, we may incur excess inventory that we cannot sell. We expect to record inventory write-downs in the future as part of our normal course of business. Conversely, if we underestimate demand, we may not have sufficient inventory and may lose market share and damage customer relationships. Obtaining additional supply in the face of product shortages may be costly or impossible, particularly in the short term, which could prevent us from fulfilling orders. As a consequence, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period in the future. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate and are difficult to predict, and if we do not meet financial expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our ADSs will likely decline. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our quarterly and annual revenues and profit margins may be significantly different from our historical or projected figures. Our quarterly and annual operating results in future periods may fall below expectations. Any of these events could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. Any of the risks described in this “Risk Factors” section, and in particular, the following factors, could cause our quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate from period to period: • our ability to increase revenue and operating efficiency and reduce unit cost of revenue; • our ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new or enhanced products in a timely manner; • the adoption of new wireless industry standards or changes in our regulatory environment; • the announcement or introduction of new or enhanced products by us or our competitors; • the pricing strategies of our competitors; • the unpredictable volume and timing of customer orders, and subsequent delays and cancellations of customer orders; • our ability to stabilize revenue and costs by entering into long term agreements with customers and suppliers; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations and infrastructure; • the results of our acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses or assets; • changes in the relative mix in the unit shipments of our products, which have different average selling prices and profit margins; • the results of litigation and/or arbitration proceedings, especially results from intellectual property infringement litigation and/or arbitration proceedings; • changes in the availability of capacity of our semiconductor manufacturing service providers; • changes in the government policies relating to our target market, which may influence the introduction of our new products; and • the overall cyclicality of the semiconductor industry and seasonality in sales of wireless handsets and fixed wireless terminals into which our products are incorporated. 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition, we base our planned operating expenses, including research and development expenses, hiring of additional personnel and investments in inventory, in part on our expectations of future revenue, and our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. If revenue for a particular quarter is lower than we expect, we may be unable to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that quarter, which would harm our operating results for that quarter. If our operating results in future quarters fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our ADSs will likely decline significantly. Because of our limited operating history and the fluctuations in our operating results, our historical operating results may not be useful in predicting our future operating results. Our future growth depends in part on building relationships and achieving additional design wins with leading international and Chinese customers. If we cannot establish these relationships and achieve future design wins, our ability to grow may be limited. We intend to pursue relationships with leading international and Chinese customers. We anticipate that these relationships will require us to make modifications to our products that involve significant technological challenges, as well as participate in lengthy field trials and extensive qualification programs. We cannot assure you that these efforts would result in a design win, where our product is incorporated into a customer’s initial product design, or that any such design win would lead to production orders. We also expect that these types of customers would place considerable pressure on us to meet their tight development schedules. In addition, these types of customers often require extensive, localized customer support, which will require us to significantly expand our customer support organization. We may have to devote a substantial amount of our limited resources to these relationships, which could detract from or delay our completion of other important development projects and may not generate a meaningful return on investment. Delays in development of these projects could impair our relationships with existing customers and negatively impact sales of the products under development. If we cannot achieve design wins in the future with leading international and Chinese customers, our ability to grow may be limited. If the market adoption of TD-SCDMA in China is slower than we expect, our growth will be adversely affected. We have invested substantial time and resources in developing products that support TD-SCDMA. In January 2009, 3G licenses were issued to the three network operators in China. China Mobile Communications Corporation, or China Mobile, received the TD-SCDMA license, China United Telecommunications, or China Unicom, received the WCDMA license, and China Telecommunications, or China Telecom, received the CDMA2000 license. In 2009, in order to accelerate the development of TD-SCDMA terminal industry, China Mobile provided an incentive fund of RMB 650.0 million and initiated a number of bidding invitations and procurements for TD-SCDMA terminals. In 2011, China Mobile initiated wireless handset procurements in February, May, June and December, in addition to the procurement activity at its subordinate provincial companies. China Mobile’s subscribers for TD-SCDMA-backed services reached 20 million by the end of 2010 and 51 million by the end of 2011. Despite recent growth, we are unable to predict future growth rate of the TD-SCDMA market, if any, with accuracy. Our success depends upon the selection by our existing and potential customers of our products for use in their 3G wireless products and market adoption of TD-SCDMA terminals. China Mobile, currently the only TD-SCDMA operator, has the dominant power to influence the segments, volume and pricing of TD-SCDMA terminals in the market. If our products are not selected by our customers or if market adoption of TD-SCDMA terminals is slower than we expect, the growth and success of our business will be adversely affected. We may not be able to increase and maintain international market demand for our products. Most of our sales currently are derived from customers in the PRC and Hong Kong, and the penetration of markets outside of these markets will be important to our future success. Although Samsung is one of our current customers in Korea, we may not be able to increase and maintain international market demand for our products. In addition, regulations or standards adopted by, or relevant patents issued by, other countries may require us to redesign our existing products, develop new products or obtain patent licenses to sell into those countries. For example, foreign governments may impose regulations or standards with which our baseband semiconductors do not comply, or may make frequencies available in bandwidths in which our products do not operate. In addition, we or our customers may be required to obtain patent licenses, which may not be 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Furthermore, to the extent we are unable to expand international operations in a timely and cost-effective manner in response to increased overseas demand, we may experience losses or declines in sales, which would negatively affect our revenue. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our international operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business and operating results will suffer. Our operating results may be adversely affected due to reduced sales, delay or loss of significant customer orders, delays in customer payments or significant bad debt losses. In 2009, three customers each accounted for more than 10.0% of our revenue: 27.1%, 15.6% and 14.0%, respectively. In 2010, four customers each accounted for more than 10.0% of our revenue: 23.0%, 14.8%, 11.6% and 10.2%, respectively. In 2011, four customers each accounted for more than 10.0% of our revenue: 18.5%, 16.7%, 11.3% and 11.2%, respectively. If we fail to successfully sell our products to one or more of our significant customers in any particular period or if a large customer purchases fewer of our products, defers orders or fails to place additional orders with us, our revenue could decline and our operating results may be adversely affected. Also, many of our current customers are smaller companies and if those customers order our products but fail to pay on time or at all, we may incur bad debts and our operating results could be adversely affected. Furthermore, as we pursue relationships with leading international brand manufacturers, we may become dependent on a small set of customers as we focus our resources on those customers. If these customers purchase fewer products, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our lengthy sales cycle makes it difficult for us to forecast revenue and increases the variability of our operating results. We have a lengthy sales cycle that typically begins with our receipt of an initial request from a customer and ends when our customer executes a purchase order for production quantities. Our sales cycles typically range from three to nine months, depending on the type of customer. We typically need to obtain a design win, where our product is incorporated into a customer’s wireless terminal design, to receive purchase orders. In some cases, due to the rapid growth of new wireless terminal applications and products, this process can be time-consuming and requires substantial investment of our time and resources. During the three to nine-month sales cycle, our customers may need three to six months or longer to test, evaluate and design our products into their wireless terminals. Following a design win, our customers may need an additional one to three months or more to begin volume production of the wireless terminals that incorporate our products. There can be no assurances that a design win will result in volume shipments of our products. Changes in design will also delay our normal sales cycle. Additionally, we may commit our limited resources to a customer’s wireless terminal design that does not result in volume shipments at the expense of other customers’ wireless terminals that could have resulted in volume shipments. Because of this lengthy sales cycle and the uncertainty regarding volume shipments of our products, it is difficult for us to forecast our revenue, which increases the variability of our operating results. In addition, it is possible that we may not generate sufficient, if any, revenue from these products to offset the selling and administrative expenses and investment of resources in anticipation of customer orders. Our success depends upon our customers’ ability to successfully sell their products. Our baseband semiconductors and RF transceivers are incorporated into our customers’ wireless terminals. If any of our customers are unsuccessful in their wireless terminal sales, whether due to lack of market acceptance of their products, shortage of component supplies, slowdown in sales of wireless terminals, excess inventory in the sales channels into which our customers sell their wireless terminals, changes in the wireless terminals supply chain or otherwise, our sales of baseband semiconductors and RF transceivers could be adversely affected. Accordingly, our success depends on our customers’ success in their business. Brand manufacturers, IDHs and ODMs who purchase our products directly or via distributors have historically accounted for substantially all of our revenue. We are not certain whether these customers will be able to achieve success in their business and how long they will remain competitive in their business even if initially successful. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS We depend on independent foundries to manufacture our products, and any failure to obtain sufficient foundry capacity could significantly delay our ability to ship our products and damage our customer relationships. Access to foundry capacity is critical to our business because we are a fabless semiconductor company. We have outsourced all of our wafer production to foundries, most of which has been outsourced to Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Litimed, or TSMC, the world’s largest foundry and our primary foundry service provider since our inception. Because we outsource our manufacturing, we face several significant risks, including: • lack of manufacturing capacity; • limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and control, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • the unavailability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies. The ability of foundries to provide us with semiconductors is limited by its available capacity. We do not have a guaranteed level of production capacity with foundries and it is difficult to accurately forecast our capacity needs. We do not have a long-term agreement with foundries and we place our orders on a purchase order basis. As a result, if foundries raise their prices or are not able to meet our required capacity for various reasons, including shortages, or delays in shipment, of semiconductor equipment or materials used by foundries to manufacture our semiconductors, or if our business relationship with any of the foundries we currently use deteriorates, we may not be able to obtain the required capacity from it and would have to seek alternative foundries, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or which may expose us to risks associated with qualifying new foundries. We place our orders on the basis of our customers’ purchase orders and sales forecasts; however, foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that customers of the foundries we currently use that are larger than we are, or that have long-term agreements with the foundries we currently use, may receive preferential treatment from the foundries in terms of capacity allocation. Reallocation of capacity by foundries to its other preferred customers could impair our ability to secure the supply of semiconductors that we need, which could significantly delay our ability to ship our products, causing a loss of revenue and damage to our customer relationships. In addition, if we do not accurately forecast our capacity needs, foundries may not have available capacity to meet our immediate needs or we may be required to pay higher costs to fulfill those needs, either of which could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. The loss of the services of our independent assembly and testing service providers could significantly disrupt our shipments, harm our customer relationships and reduce our sales. We rely on several independent assembly and testing service providers to assemble and test our semiconductors. As a result, we do not directly control our product delivery schedules, assembly and testing costs or quality assurance and control. We do not have a long-term agreement with our assembly and testing service providers that guarantees us access to capacity. We typically procure services from our assembly and testing service providers on a per-order basis. If our assembly and testing service providers experience capacity constraints or financial difficulties, raises its prices, suffers any damage to its facilities, is acquired and restructures its business or terminates its relationship with us, or if there is any other disruption of assembly and testing capacity, we may have to seek alternative assembly and testing services, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or which may expose us to risks associated with qualifying new assembly and testing service providers. We currently estimate that it would take us several months to qualify a new assembly and testing service provider. Because of the amount of time that it takes us to qualify third-party assembly and testing service providers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assembly and testing service providers for our products on short notice. In addition, we may be required to pay higher assembly and testing costs. Any problems that we may encounter with the delivery or quality of our products could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our primary foundry and assembly and testing service providers maintain facilities that are located in a region that is subject to earthquakes, typhoons and other natural disasters, as well as geopolitical risks and social upheaval. The primary foundry for our semiconductor manufacturing, and the primary service providers for our assembly and test services, have substantial operations located in Taiwan. Furthermore, a substantial number of material suppliers for our primary foundry and assembly and testing service providers, who control most of the supply of key raw materials for wafer processing and packaging in semiconductor industry, are based in Japan. Both Taiwan and Japan are susceptible to earthquakes, typhoons, flood and other natural disasters, and have experienced severe earthquakes and typhoons in recent years. In addition, our primary foundry and assembly and testing service providers are subject to risks associated with uncertain political, economic and other conditions in Taiwan and elsewhere in Asia, such as political turmoil in the region, maintaining smooth relations with the PRC and the outbreak of contagious diseases, such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, or any other epidemic such as avian flu and swine flu. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could disrupt their operations, resulting in significant delays in deliveries or substantial shortages of our products and harm to our business. Increases to the prices charged by the foundries and assembly and testing service providers upon which we rely may adversely affect our business and operating results. In light of the overinvestment in 12-inch wafer capacity by foundries worldwide in 2011, foundries are becoming increasingly cautious about expanding capacity for leading-edge 12-inch wafer technologies which include 40 nanometer process technology that we widely adopt, and the capacity for 12-inch wafers is not expected to increase in 2012. With major fabless companies now migrating to such leading-edge wafer technologies, however, wafer capacity is expected to be tight in 2012. The combination of the limitation of foundry capacity and rising commodity prices on assembly and testing could result in higher prices from our service providers. If we are unable to pass on the higher costs of manufacturing, assembly and testing to our customers, we will experience declines in our gross margins. Our products are becoming more complex and defects in our products could result in a loss of customers, decreased revenue, unexpected expenses, loss of market share and warranty claims. Our products are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. Products as complex as ours may contain undetected design flaws or manufacture defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. For example, our products may contain errors that are not detected until after they are shipped because we cannot test for all possible scenarios. Errors or defects can arise due to design flaws, defects in materials or components or as a result of manufacturing difficulties, which can affect both the quality and the yield of the product. As our products become more complex, we face significantly higher risk of undetected defects. In addition, as our baseband semiconductors become more complex we may be limited in the number of wireless terminals that can utilize these components. Any errors or defects in our products, or the perception that there may be errors or defects in our products, could result in customers rejecting our products, damage to our reputation, lost revenue, diversion of development resources and increases in customer service and support costs and warranty claims. In addition, our agreements with most customers contain warranty provisions, which provide the customers with a right to damages if a defect is traced to our products or if we cannot correct errors reported during the warranty period. Our contractual limitations on our liability may be unenforceable in a particular jurisdiction. We do not have insurance coverage for any warranty or product liability claims, and a successful claim could require us to pay substantial damages. We may experience lower than expected manufacturing yields or limitations in designing with new process technologies, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. The manufacture of semiconductors is a highly complex process. Minute impurities in a silicon wafer can cause a substantial number of wafers to be rejected or cause numerous die on a wafer to be nonfunctional. Semiconductor companies often encounter difficulties in achieving acceptable product yields from their manufacturers. The foundries upon which we rely to manufacture our products have occasionally experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, including for our products. This often occurs during the production of new products or the installation and start-up of new process technologies. We may experience 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS yield problems as we migrate our manufacturing processes to smaller geometries. If we do not achieve planned yields, our product costs would increase, and product availability would decrease. In addition, limitations inherent in new process technologies may affect the design, performance and functionality of our baseband semiconductors and RF transceivers. For example, semiconductors designed with some of the current process technologies at more advanced geometries may experience higher power leakage, which increases power consumption and reduces battery life. As we develop baseband semiconductors on more advanced process geometries, we may not continue to fully integrate power management on a single semiconductor. The production of our baseband semiconductors using more advanced process geometries could be delayed, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Failure of suppliers to deliver on a timely basis sufficient quantities of components or materials or licensed software used in our products may result in delays or other disruptions in introducing or shipping our products, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Some of the components, materials and software used in our products are purchased or licensed from a single supplier and it is difficult for us to redesign our products to incorporate other components, materials or software. Loss or termination of the licenses would have a material adverse impact on the manufacture of our products. Modifying our products for new components or software will take a significant commitment of engineering time and resources and we may not be successful in doing so. If any vendor terminates our license to use the components or software, or is unable to deliver components or materials used in our products, in accordance with our requirements, we may not be able to find alternative sources on favorable terms and in a timely manner, or at all. Our inability to find or develop alternative sources of components, materials and software, if and as required, could result in delays or other disruptions in introducing or shipping our products. If any of these events occur, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our success depends on the continuing efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel and on our ability to successfully attract, train and retain additional key personnel. Our future success depends heavily upon the continuing services of the members of our senior management team and various engineering and other technical personnel. Our engineers and other technical personnel are critical to our future technological and product innovations. If one or more of our senior executives or other key personnel depart or are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all, and our business may be disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent and the pool of qualified candidates is very limited. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain existing, or attract and retain new, qualified personnel, including senior executives and skilled engineers, whom we will need to achieve our strategic objectives. In addition, as we are still a young company and our business has grown rapidly, our ability to train and integrate new employees into our operations may not meet the growing demands of our business. We may not be able to manage effectively our changes in operations. We expect to adjust the composition of our engineering team in certain areas in the near future to meet changing customer demands. As we pursue relationships with leading international brand manufacturers and maintain and expand our relationships with our existing customers, suppliers and other third parties, we expect to accommodate any growth by adjusting our sales, engineering and customer support operations. In addition, we will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including improvements to our record keeping and our accounting, contract tracking, order processing, sales tracking, customer support and other internal management systems. All of these measures will require substantial management efforts and the dedication of additional resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement these measures successfully or effectively manage our growth. Any failure to do so may adversely and materially affect our business. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products if these claims are successful. In the course of our business, we may receive claims of infringement or otherwise become aware of potentially relevant patents or other intellectual property rights held by other parties. The wireless 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS communications industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation for many companies, and a large number of companies that hold significant number of patents related to GSM, GPRS, CDMA and 3G standards, such as TD-SCDMA, WCDMA/UMTS and CDMA2000, and related technologies. We cannot assure you that we will prevail in any claims of infringement. We or our customers may be required to obtain licenses for such patents and if we need to license any such patents, we could be required to pay royalties on certain of our products. There can be no assurances that if we are required to obtain patent licenses to develop and sell our baseband semiconductors, we will be able to obtain such patent licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or if our customers are required to obtain such patent licenses, our customers’ businesses will not be adversely affected. Our inability to obtain these patent licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, products and services. In addition, third parties may claim that we or our customers are infringing or contributing to the infringement of their intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that other actions alleging infringement by us of third-party patents, trademarks and copyrights, misappropriation or misuse by us of third-party trade secrets or the validity of our patents will not be asserted or prosecuted against us, or that any assertions of infringement, misappropriation or misuse or prosecutions seeking to establish the validity of our patents will not materially or adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. Because of the complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of litigation generally, any intellectual property litigation involves significant risks. Moreover, patent litigation has increased in recent years due to the increased numbers of cases asserted by intellectual property licensing entities and increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in our markets. If there is a successful claim of intellectual property infringement against us, we might be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement, refrain from further sale of our products, develop non-infringing technology or enter into costly royalty or license agreements on an on-going basis or indemnify our customers. However, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. Parties asserting infringement claims may also be able to obtain an injunction against development and sale of our products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property. Any intellectual property litigation or successful claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. The disruption, expense and potential liability associated with pending and unanticipated future legal proceedings against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to various legal proceedings and threatened legal proceedings from time to time as part of our ordinary business. Any such legal proceedings, regardless of merit, could significantly divert management’s attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees to us. Furthermore, there is no assurance that any action that has been or will be brought against us will be resolved in our favor or, if significant monetary judgments are rendered against us, that we will have the ability to pay such judgments. Such disruption, legal fees and any losses resulting from these claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could harm our business and competitive position. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights, which may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property. We continue to proactively harvest inventions from our R&D activities and expand our patent portfolio. For example, we have seen continuous growth in the number of patents granted to us in China. Spreadtrum Shanghai was granted 10, 11, 20, 51 and 89 patents in China in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. In 2011, we also acquired 80 patents and pending patent applications through our acquisition of Telegent Systems, Inc., or Telegent, and 101 patents and pending patent applications through our majority stake in MobilePeak Holdings, Ltd., or MobilePeak. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS As of March 31, 2012, we owned 277 patents and had 426 pending patent applications in China. In addition, as of March 31, 2012, we were the co-owner of 30 patents in China. We are also expanding our international patent portfolio. As of March 31, 2012, we owned 61 patents and had 50 pending patent applications in the United States and we owned 12 patents and had 12 pending patent applications in Europe. Enforcement of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been less than perfect, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Policing any unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly and the steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us. In addition, others independently may develop similar proprietary information and techniques, gain access to our intellectual property rights, disclose such technology or design around our patents. A large number of third parties hold patents or have patent applications pending that relate to core technologies used in wireless communication standards, including CDMA, FDMA, OFDM, and TDMA. Additionally, we cannot assure you that any patent or registered trademark owned by us will be enforceable or will not be invalidated, circumvented or otherwise challenged in the PRC, the United States or other countries or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity of and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could harm our business, could ultimately be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights, and may result in our intellectual property rights being held invalid or unenforceable. Moreover, foreign intellectual property laws may not protect our intellectual property rights. Our participation in standards setting organizations and industry alliances may also require us to license some of our patents to our competitors and other third parties on a royalty-free basis or otherwise on fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory terms. We may be unable to limit to whom we license some of our technologies, and may be unable to restrict many terms of the license. In addition, our control over the application and quality of our technologies that are included in patent pools or otherwise necessary for implementing industry standards may be limited. Our intellectual property indemnification practices may adversely impact our business. We have agreed to indemnify some customers and parties from whom we license intellectual property for costs and damages of intellectual property infringement in some circumstances. This practice may subject us to significant indemnification claims by our customers or others. In addition to indemnification claims by our customers, we may also have to defend related third-party infringement claims made directly against us. Our semiconductors and turnkey solutions are designed for use in wireless handsets and other types of wireless devices used by potentially millions of consumers, which could subject us to considerable exposure should an infringement claim occur. We cannot assure you that such claims will not be pursued. We may undertake acquisitions or investments to expand our business that may pose risks to our business and dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments. We completed our acquisitions of MobilePeak and Telegent in 2011 and our acquisition of Spreadtrum Communications USA Inc., or Spreadtrum USA (formerly known as Quorum Technologies, Inc.), in 2008. Since 2010, we have also invested in several companies, including our joint venture, Shanghai Zhanxiang Electronics Technology Co., Ltd., or Zhanxiang, Zoom Technologies, Inc., and Micromax Informatics Limited, or Micromax. As part of our growth strategy, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire or invest in other businesses to complement our current intellectual property and technologies or to expand the breadth of markets we can cover and to deepen our cooperation with our business partners. The process of integrating an acquired company, technology or investment has created, and will continue to create, unforeseen operating 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS difficulties and expenditures. Acquisitions or investments that we may potentially make in the future entail a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, operating and financial results, including: • problems integrating the acquired operations, technologies or products into our existing business and products; • diversion of management’s time and attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers; • need for financial resources above our planned investment levels; • failures in realizing anticipated synergies; • difficulties in retaining business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired company; • risks associated with entering markets in which we lack experience; • potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; • potential future impairment of our acquisitions or investments; • potential full or partial write-offs of acquired assets or investments and associated goodwill; and • potential expenses related to the amortization of intangible assets. Our failure to address these risks may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any such acquisition or investment may require a significant amount of capital investment, which would decrease the amount of cash available for working capital or capital expenditures. In addition, if we use our equity securities to pay for acquisitions, our shareholders may experience dilution. If we borrow funds to finance acquisitions, such debt instruments may contain restrictive covenants that can, among other things, restrict us from distributing dividends. Our acquisitions of MobilePeak and Telegent may be disruptive to our business and could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We completed our acquisition of Telegent, in August 2011 and our majority acquisition of MobilePeak in September 2011. We have already integrated many aspects of Telegent and MobilePeak into our business. However, these acquisitions may require a significant amount of capital investment in the future, which would decrease the amount of cash available for working capital or capital expenditures. Our acquisitions of Telegent and MobilePeak entail a number of other risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, operating and financial results, including problems integrating Telegent’s and MobilePeak’s personnel, operations, technologies or products into our existing business, need for financial resources above our planned investment levels, unknown and unforeseen assumed liabilities, potential write-offs of acquired assets and goodwill, potential expenses related to the amortization of intangible assets, the diversion of management resources from other strategic and operational issues, and the inability to retain key employees of Telegent and MobilePeak. If we are unable to generate significant amounts of revenue from Telegent’s and MobilePeak’s products in the near future, we may suffer financial losses as a result of Telegent’s and MobilePeak’s on-going operating expenses, expenses related to the amortization of intangible assets from these acquisitions, and additional share-based compensation expenses related to these acquisitions. Our failure to address the risks associated with our acquisitions of Telegent and MobilePeak may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We do not have product liability, business disruption or other business insurance coverage. We do not have product liability, business disruption or other business insurance coverage for our operations in China or elsewhere. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development and insurance companies in China currently offer limited business insurance products. In addition, we have limited business insurance coverage for our operations to cover losses that may be caused by litigation or natural disasters. Any business disruption, product liability or warranty claim, litigation or natural disaster may result in our incurring substantial costs and diversion of resources. 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our principal shareholders and affiliated entities. As of February 29, 2012, our directors, executive officers, principal shareholders and their affiliated entities owned approximately 17.3% of our outstanding ordinary shares. These shareholders, acting individually or as a group, can exert substantial influence over matters such as electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the trading price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. Risks Related to Our Industry Changes in industry standards, technology, customer requirements and government regulation could impair our acquired intangible assets and limit our ability to sell our products. The wireless terminal market is characterized by changing end-user preferences and demand for new and advanced functions and applications on wireless terminals, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, intense competition, evolving industry standards and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. This requires us to continuously develop new products and enhance our existing products to keep pace with evolving industry standards and rapidly changing customer requirements. In order to encourage widespread market adoption of 2G, 3G and 4G technologies, efforts have been made to develop industry standards, and we have designed our products to comply with these standards. Changes in industry standards, or the development of new industry standards, may make our products obsolete or negate the cost advantages we believe we have in our products. In addition, due to changes in industry standards and the development of new industry standards, our acquired intangible assets, including software license and technology, may become obsolete and we may have to record related impairment provisions. To date, most of our revenue has been derived from the sale of products that support 2G, 2.5G and 3G wireless standards, such as GSM, GPRS and TD-SCDMA. Continued market acceptance of these products and diversification of our product portfolio will be critical to our future success. As a result, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected by any decline in demand for our existing products, the introduction of products and technologies by our competitors that serve as a replacement or substitute for, or represent an improvement over, our existing products, technological innovations or new standards that our existing products do not address, or our inability to release enhanced versions of our existing products on a timely basis. We offer baseband semiconductors that support TD-SCDMA, an international 3G standard promoted by the PRC government, and are focusing a significant portion of our product design and sales and marketing efforts on products that comply with such standard. We also are devoting resources to the development of WCDMA and LTE products. If the wireless standards for which we are developing products are not adopted by the market at the speed we anticipate, we may not be able to sell these solutions and our revenue could decline. Because it is not practicable to develop products that comply with all current standards and standards that may be adopted in the future, our ability to compete effectively will depend on our ability to accurately select industry standards that will be widely adopted by the market and to design our products to support those relevant industry standards. We may be required to invest significant effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to address relevant standards. We may not have the financial resources to fund future innovations. If our products do not meet relevant industry standards that are widely adopted for a significant period of time, our revenue would decline, adversely affecting our operating results, business and prospects. The average selling prices of products in our markets have historically decreased rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross margins. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, the average selling price of a product historically declines significantly over the life of the product. In the past, we have reduced the average selling prices of our products in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and other factors. We expect that we will have to similarly reduce prices in the future for our mature products. Reductions in our average selling prices to one customer could also impact our average selling prices to all customers. A decline in average selling prices would harm our gross margins. Moreover, semiconductors have short product life cycles. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our costs, adding new features to our existing products or developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross margins. We may be adversely affected by the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry. Our industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has, from time to time, experienced significant downturns, often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies’ and their customers’ products and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any future downturns may reduce our revenue and result in us having excess inventory. Furthermore, any upturn in the semiconductor industry could result in increased competition for access to limited third-party foundry, assembly and testing capacity. Actual or perceived health risks associated with the use of wireless terminals, and the lawsuits and publicity relating to them, regardless of merit, could affect our operations negatively by leading consumers to reduce their use of wireless terminals. There has been public speculation about possible health risks to individuals from exposure to electromagnetic fields from base stations, the two-way radio installations that are used to communicate with wireless terminals, and from the use of wireless terminals. While a substantial amount of scientific research conducted to date by various independent research bodies has shown that radio signals, at levels within the limits prescribed by public health authority safety standards and recommendations, present no adverse effect to human health, we cannot be certain that future studies, irrespective of their relative reliability or trustworthiness, will not impute a link between electromagnetic fields and adverse health effects. Research into these issues is ongoing by governmental agencies, international health organizations and other scientific bodies in order to develop a better scientific understanding and public awareness of these issues. In addition, several wireless terminal industry participants have become the targets of lawsuits alleging various health consequences as a result of wireless terminal usage or seeking protective measures. While we are not aware of any scientific studies or objective evidence which substantiates these alleged health risks, we cannot assure you that the actual, or perceived, risks associated with radio wave transmission will not reduce wireless terminal usage or cause us to allocate monetary and personnel resources to keep track of and manage these issues. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government or laws or regulations of the PRC could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Most of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various economic and political policies and laws and regulations to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Any adverse changes to these policies of the PRC government or the laws and regulations of the PRC could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Our business benefits from certain government incentives and grants. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives, reductions of these grants could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The PRC government has provided various incentives to companies incorporated in the PRC in the semiconductor industry, including our company, in order to encourage development of the industry. We have received government incentives in the forms of reduced tax rates, exemption from certain taxes, favorable 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS lending policies, research grants and other measures. Our research and development expenses have been partially offset by subsidies, including grants we have received from PRC government authorities. The aggregate cash amounts of the subsidies we received, excluding the amounts transferred to third parties that cooperated with us on certain government sponsored research and development projects, were approximately $4.9 million, $11.4 million and $20.0 million, respectively, in 2009, 2010 and 2011. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, $1.5 million, $5.0 million and $2.9 million, respectively, were recorded as offsets to research and development expenses incurred. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, $1.0 million, $0.3 million, and $0.2 million, respectively, were received as subsidies for the acquisition of specific equipment in the form of a reduction of the cost of that equipment. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, subsidies of $0.7 million and $1.5 million, respectively, related to our interest expenses on the long-term bank loan we borrowed in 2009 were recorded as offsets to our interest expenses. We did not receive any such subsidies in the year ended December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, approximately $2.6 million, $7.2 million and $24.2 million, respectively, of government subsidies had not been earned, since the requirements for those specific research and development projects had not been fulfilled. We expect to meet all these requirements in later periods before the deadlines set by the government. There can be no assurances that we will receive any subsidies in the future. If changes in the tax laws of the PRC reduce the tax benefits available to us or our subsidiaries, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Since China joined the World Trade Organization, or WTO, in November 2001, some of its preferential tax treatments applicable to foreign-invested enterprises, or FIEs, have been criticized as giving FIEs inappropriate competitive advantage. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress, the PRC legislature, approved and promulgated a tax law named “Corporate Income Tax Law,” or CIT Law, which took effect beginning January 1, 2008. Under the CIT Law, foreign-invested enterprises, or FIEs, and domestic companies are subject to a uniform tax rate of 25%. The CIT Law provides a five-year transition period starting from its effective date for those companies which were established before the promulgation date of the CIT Law and which were entitled to a preferential lower tax rate under the then effective tax laws or regulations. In accordance with regulations issued by the State Council, the tax rate of such companies may gradually transit to the uniform tax rate within the transition period. For those companies which are enjoying tax holidays, such tax holidays may continue until their expiration in accordance with the regulations issued by the State Council, but where the tax holiday has not yet started because of losses, such tax holiday shall be deemed to commence from the first effective year of the CIT Law. While the CIT Law equalizes the tax rates for FIEs and domestic companies, preferential tax treatment would continue to be given to companies in certain encouraged sectors and to entities classified as high-technology companies supported by the PRC government, whether FIEs or domestic companies. According to the CIT Law, entities that qualify as high-technology companies supported by the PRC government are expected to benefit from a tax rate of 15% as compared to the uniform tax rate of 25%. For more information regarding the Corporate Income Tax Law and the Administrative Measures for Determination of High-Technology Companies, see “Item 5.A Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Taxation—PRC Tax.” Additionally, our wholly-owned PRC subsidiary, Spreadtrum Shanghai, as a PRC integrated circuit design enterprise, or ICDE, is exempt from corporate income tax for two years starting from 2007, the year in which it first had positive accumulated earnings, and is entitled to a 50% reduction in the corporate income tax for the succeeding three years. Since the CIT law permits companies to continue to enjoy their existing preferential tax treatments until such treatments expire in accordance with their current terms, Spreadtrum Shanghai was exempt from income taxes in 2008. For the three years of 2009, 2010 and 2011, its income tax rate increased from 10% to 11% to 12%, respectively, because Spreadtrum Shanghai qualified for a 50% reduction on the standard transitional tax rate of 20%, 22%, and 24%, respectively. Spreadtrum Shanghai received the preferential income tax rate of 15% as a “new and high technology enterprise supported by the state” from the relevant tax authorities in December 2008. Based on Circular 39—Circular on the Implementation of the Preferential Policies for Corporate Income Tax During the Transition Period, which was issued by the PRC State Council, Spreadtrum Shanghai may apply the transitional tax rate during the transitional period and enjoy a 15% preferential tax rate after the transition period expires in 2012 if it continues to qualify as a “new and high technology enterprise strongly supported by the state.” Spreadtrum Communications Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., or Spreadtrum Technology, as an FIE incorporated in the 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS Shanghai Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone, enjoyed a preferential corporate income tax of 15% in 2007. Under the CIT Law, Spreadtrum Technology is no longer entitled to this preferential tax rate, and is therefore subject to a 18%, 20%, 22%, 24% tax rate from years 2008 through 2011, respectively, and a 25% uniform tax rate starting in 2012. Beijing Spreadtrum Hi-Tech Communications Technology Co., Ltd., or Spreadtrum Beijing, is no longer entitled to any preferential tax rate, and is therefore subject to a 25% uniform tax rate starting in 2008. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Spreadtrum Communications (Tianjin) Co., Ltd., or Spreadtrum Tianjin, and Shanghai MobilePeak Semiconductor Co., Ltd., or MobilePeak Shanghai, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MobilePeak, are qualified IC design companies and thus enjoy the preferential policy of `two year exemption, three year half` since their first tax profitable years. Under our current tax structure, this change will increase our effective tax rate in future years. There can be no assurances that any of our PRC subsidiaries will continue to qualify as high-technology companies supported by the PRC government in the future, and benefit from such preferential tax rate. Following the effectiveness of the CIT Law, our effective tax rate may increase, unless we are otherwise eligible for preferential treatment. In addition, under the newly revised PRC Land Use Tax Tentative Regulations, since January 1, 2007, Spreadtrum Shanghai is subject to land use tax, levied on a yearly basis. Any increase in our tax rate in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. On October 18, 2010, the State Council promulgated the Circular on Extending the Urban Maintenance and Construction Tax and Educational Surcharges from Chinese to Foreign-funded Enterprises and Citizens. Under this circular, FIEs shall pay the urban maintenance and construction tax and educational surcharges starting from December 1, 2010, which FIEs and foreign citizens were exempted from paying in the past. Both urban maintenance and construction tax and educational surcharges are calculated on the basis of product tax, value-added tax and business tax paid by a company. The applicable rate of the urban maintenance and construction tax is 7% and the applicable rate of educational surcharges is 3%. These taxes have an adverse effect on our financial results, but we do not believe the effect will be material because Spreadtrum Shanghai is entitled to certain preferential treatment for value-added taxes and business taxes and the total amount of product tax, value-added tax and business tax paid by our PRC subsidiaries is not material. We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes under the CIT Law which became effective on January 1, 2008, which may subject us to PRC income tax for any dividends we receive from our non-PRC resident subsidiaries and PRC income tax withholding for any dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders. Under the CIT Law, enterprises established under the laws of non-PRC jurisdictions, but whose “de facto management body” is located in the PRC are treated as resident enterprises for PRC tax purposes. According to the Implementing Rules for the CIT Law, “de facto management bodies” refer to “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” Further, on April 22, 2009, the PRC State Administration of Tax issued a Notice on Certain Issues regarding the Determination of Offshore Companies Controlled by PRC Companies as Resident Enterprises pursuant to “De Facto Management Bodies” Standard, or the April Notice, which took effect retrospectively on January 1, 2008. According to the April Notice, any company established pursuant to laws and regulations other than PRC laws but that is controlled by companies or company groups within China shall be deemed as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes if all the following conditions are met: (i) the senior management in charge of the daily operation and management of the company is based within China or the premises where the senior management performs its duties are located within China; (ii) the financial matters (such as raising funds, financing or financial risk management) and human resources matters (such as appointment and dismissal of employees or their payrolls) are decided by companies or individuals within China or require approval from companies or individuals within China; (iii) material assets, books and accounts, company seal and minutes of board meetings or shareholder meetings are kept or placed within China; and (iv) half or more of the directors with voting rights or senior management habitually reside within China. According to this Notice, in determining the location of de facto management, “substance over form” principle should be followed. Since this Notice is issued to regulate identification of PRC tax resident among companies established overseas and controlled by PRC companies, which is not applicable in our case, the criteria in the Notice can only be used for reference 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS purposes. The PRC tax authorities can determine whether or not certain offshore companies shall be deemed as resident enterprises for PRC tax purposes. Most of our major board decisions are made outside of the PRC, and relevant documentation such as dual employment contracts of certain high-level management persons have been adopted. As such, we believe that the risk of being deemed as a PRC tax resident should be low. If we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income, which will include any dividend income we receive from our non-PRC resident subsidiaries, at the 25% uniform tax rate, which would have an impact on our effective tax rate and a material adverse effect on our net income and results of operations, but the dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries should be tax-exempt income. Since we intend to reinvest our earnings to further expand our businesses in mainland China, our FIEs do not intend to declare dividends to their immediate Hong Kong holding companies in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2011, we have not recorded any withholding tax on the retained earnings of our FIEs in China. As of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2011, $189.7 million out of a total of $206.5 million and $226.6 million out of a total of $265.7 million, respectively, of cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits were held by our China subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations outside of China, we would be required to accrue and pay China taxes to repatriate these funds. However, our intent is to permanently reinvest these funds in China and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund operations outside of China. Furthermore, unlike the Income Tax Law for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprise previously in effect, which specifically exempted withholding tax on any dividends payable to non-PRC investors, the CIT Law provides that dividends generated after January 1, 2008 and payable by an FIE to its foreign investors will be subject to a 10% withholding tax if the foreign investors are considered as non-resident enterprises without any establishment or place within China or if the dividends payable have no connection with the establishment or place of the foreign investors within China, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. Our subsidiaries in China are FIEs directly held by our subsidiaries incorporated in Hong Kong or the Cayman Islands. According to the Mainland and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Arrangement on Avoiding Double Taxation or Evasion of Taxation on Income agreed between China and Hong Kong in August 2006, dividends payable by an FIE in China to a company in Hong Kong which directly holds at least 25% of the equity interests in the FIE will be subject to a withholding tax of 5%. However, on February 20, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Notice on Relevant Issues of Implementing Dividend Clauses under Tax Treaties, or the 2009 February Notice, clarifying that no enterprise is entitled to the preferential treatment on dividend withholding tax rates pursuant to any tax treaties if such enterprise becomes qualified for such preferential tax rates through any transaction or arrangement whose major purpose is to obtain such preferential tax treatment. The tax authority in charge has the right to make adjustments to the applicable tax rates if it determines that any taxpayer has enjoyed preferential treatment under tax treaties as a result of such transaction or arrangement. Furthermore, on August 24, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Administrative Measures on Treatment of Non-residents under Tax Treaties (Trial Implementation), or 2009 August Notice, which became effective on October 1, 2009. According to the 2009 August Notice, any non-resident wishing to enjoy tax treaty treatment under the following sections in the relevant tax treaties shall apply to the tax authorities with competent jurisdiction for approval: (i) dividend; (ii) interest; (iii) royalty; and (iv) property income. The relevant tax authorities shall have 20 to 50 working days after an application is accepted to decide whether to approve such application. If the relevant tax authorities do not notify the applicant of its decision in writing within the above time frame, the relevant application shall be deemed to have been approved. We have not applied to the relevant tax authorities for enjoyment of the withholding tax rate under the tax treaty between Mainland and Hong Kong. It remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will implement the 2009 February Notice and the 2009 August Notice in practice and to what extent they will affect the dividend withholding tax rates for dividends distributed by our subsidiaries in China to our Hong Kong subsidiary. If the relevant tax authority determines that our Hong Kong subsidiary was set up to take advantage of the preferential tax rates on dividends, or our application for enjoyment of the withholding tax rate under the tax treaty between Mainland and Hong Kong cannot be approved by the competent tax authorities, the higher 10% withholding tax rate may apply to such dividends. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise”, the dividends from our Cayman Islands company to our ultimate non-PRC shareholders, and the capital gains realized by our non-PRC shareholders from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, may be regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC and may be subject to PRC withholding tax. If such dividends or capital gains are taxable in the PRC, the applicable income tax rate would be 10% for non-PRC institutional shareholders and 20% for non-PRC individual shareholders, unless they are able to claim a lower tax rate pursuant to applicable tax treaties. If we are required under the CIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, your investment in us may be materially and adversely affected. We face uncertainty from PRC’s Circular on Strengthening the Management of Enterprise Income Tax Collection of Income Derived by Non-resident Enterprises from Equity Transfers. The State Administration of Taxation of PRC issued the Circular on Strengthening the Management of Enterprise Income Tax Collection of Income Derived by Non-resident Enterprises from Equity Transfers, or Circular 698, on December 10, 2009, which addresses the transfer of equity by non-PRC resident enterprises. Under this Circular, the overseas controlling party that effectively controls a PRC resident enterprise through an overseas intermediate holding company, and “indirectly transfers” the equity interests in such PRC resident enterprise by selling shares of the intermediate holding company, is required to report such transfer to the PRC tax authority if the intermediate holding company is located in a foreign jurisdiction that has an effective tax rate of less than 12.5% or does not levy tax on such foreign-sourced capital gains of its residents. If the intermediate holding company mainly serves as tax avoidance vehicle and does not have any reasonable business purpose, the PRC in-charge tax authority may, upon verification of the State Administration of Taxation, disregard the intermediate holding company and re-characterize the equity transfer by referring to its economic essence, and as a result, the overseas controlling party may be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax for the capital gains realized from the equity transfer. We do not believe that the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs by our non-PRC shareholders should be treated as an indirect transfer of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries subject to Circular 698, as the share transfer is not carried out for the main purposes of avoiding PRC taxes. However, Circular 698 is relatively new and there is uncertainty as to the interpretation and application of Circular 698 by the PRC tax authorities in practice. If you are required to pay PRC withholding tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, your investment in us may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we cannot predict how Circular 698 will affect our financial conditions or operations. For example, we may be required to expend valuable resources on complying with Circular 698 or establishing that we should not be taxed under Circular 698, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our subsidiaries in China are subject to restrictions on dividend payments, making other payments to us or any other affiliated company and borrowing or allocating tax losses among our subsidiaries. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands and we conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries in China. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries in China to pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our subsidiaries in China are required to set aside at least 10% of their respective accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds until such reserves have reached at least 50% of their respective registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, current PRC regulations prohibit inter-company borrowings or allocation of tax losses among subsidiaries in China. Further, if our subsidiaries in China incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenue effectively. Because certain portion of our revenue is denominated in RMB, any restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any business activities we may have outside China or to make dividend payments in U.S. dollars. The principal regulation governing foreign currency exchange in China is the Foreign Currency Administration Rules (1996), as amended. Under these rules, RMB are freely convertible for trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not for direct investment, 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS loan or investment in securities outside China unless the prior approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, is obtained. Although the PRC government regulations now allow greater convertibility of RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain. For example, foreign exchange transactions under our subsidiary’s capital account, including principal payments in respect of foreign currency-denominated obligations, remain subject to significant foreign exchange controls and the approval of SAFE. These limitations could affect our ability to obtain foreign exchange for capital expenditures. We cannot be certain that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently-enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents and employee stock options granted by overseas-listed companies may increase our administrative burden, restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity or otherwise adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy. If our shareholders who are PRC residents, or our PRC employees who are granted or exercise stock options, fail to make any required registrations or filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. SAFE promulgated regulations in October 2005 that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. Under the SAFE regulations, PRC residents who make, or have previously made, direct or indirect investments in offshore companies, will be required to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their establishment or control of the offshore company established for the purpose of overseas equity financing involving a roundtrip investment whereby the offshore company acquires or controls onshore assets or equity interests held by the PRC residents. In addition, such PRC residents are required to file or update the registration with the local branch of SAFE, with respect to that offshore company, any material change involving its round-trip investment, capital variation, such as an increase or decrease in capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, long-term equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. If any PRC shareholder fails to make the required SAFE registration or file or update the registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation, to their offshore parent company, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into their PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. We cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends or obtain foreign-exchange-denominated loans to our company. 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS As it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our PRC employees who have been granted stock options are subject to the Stock Option Rule. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. Several of our PRC employees exercised their stock options prior to our becoming an overseas publicly-listed company. Since there is not yet a clear regulation on how and whether PRC employees can exercise their stock options granted by overseas private companies, it is unclear whether such exercises are permissible by PRC laws and it is uncertain how SAFE or other government authorities will interpret or administrate such regulations. Therefore, we cannot predict how such exercises will affect our business or operations. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval processes with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may affect our results of operations and financial condition. On February 15, 2012, SAFE promulgated the Circular on Certain Foreign Exchange Issues Relating to Domestic Individuals’ Participation in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas Listed Company, or the New Stock Option Rule. Upon the effectiveness of the New Stock Option Rule on February 15, 2012, the Stock Option Rule became void, although the basic requirements and procedures provided under the Stock Option Rule are kept unchanged in the New Stock Option Rule, i.e., the domestic employees participating in stock incentive plan of a overseas listed company shall appoint the PRC subsidiary of the overseas listed company or a domestic qualified agent to make the registration of the stock incentive plan with SAFE and handle all foreign exchange-related matters of the stock incentive plan through the special bank account approved by SAFE. The New Stock Option Rule clarifies that the domestic subsidiary of an overseas listed company shall include the limited liability company, partnership and the representative office directly or indirectly established by such overseas listed company in China and the domestic employees shall include the directors, supervisors, the senior management and other employees of the domestic subsidiary, including the foreign employees of the domestic subsidiary who continuously reside in China for at least one year. Similar with the Stock Option Rule, the New Stock Option Rule requires that the annual allowance with respect to the purchase of foreign exchange in connection with stock holding or stock option exercises shall be subject to the approval of SAFE. The New Stock Option Rule further requires that the material amendments of the stock incentive plan shall be filed with SAFE within three months following the occurrence of the material amendments. The domestic agent shall also make a quarterly update to SAFE to disclose the information with respect to the stock option exercises, the stock holding and foreign exchange matters. If the domestic employees or the domestic agent fails to comply with the requirements of the New Stock Option Rule, the SAFE may require the remedy and even impose administrative penalties that SAFE deems appropriate. Prior to the effectiveness of the New Stock Option Rule, we completed the registration with SAFE for our Chinese employees who participate in our stock incentive plan and have maintained the update to SAFE in accordance with the Stock Option Rule. Under the New Stock Option Rule, we do not need to re-register but must comply with the requirements applicable to companies which have completed the registration, including the quarterly update to SAFE and registration for material amendments of our stock incentive plan. 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS PRC regulations establish more complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by foreign investors which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, or SASAC, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the CSRC, and SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The M&A Rule established new procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. On February 3, 2011, the General Office of the State Council promulgated the Notice on Launching the Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Security Review Notice, which became effective on March 6, 2011. The M&A Security Review Notice provides for certain circumstances under which foreign investors’ acquisition of domestic enterprises shall be subject to the security review of the PRC governments. The security review assesses such acquisition’s impact on national security, stable operation of national economy, basic living of the people, and research and development capacity for key technologies related to the national security. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rule and the M&A Security Review Notice to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Fluctuations in the value of RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a managed band based on market supply and demand and by reference to a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in a 23.9% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and December 31, 2011. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which may result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. Dollar. Although the majority of our revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars, a large portion of our revenue and most of our expenses are denominated in RMB. We use the U.S. dollar as the reporting currency for our financial statements. Any significant revaluation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenue, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in U.S. dollars. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. If the PRC government determines that we failed to obtain requisite PRC governmental approvals for, or register with the PRC government, our current and past import and export of technologies, we could be subject to sanctions. China imposes controls on technology import and export. The term “technology import and export” is broadly defined to include, without limitation, the transfer or license of patents, software and know-how, and the provision of services in relation to technology. Depending on the nature of the relevant technology, the import and export of technology require either approval by, or registration with, the relevant PRC governmental authorities. Spreadtrum Shanghai has licensed, or transferred, certain of its technologies to us, or other third parties outside of China, which license or transfer would constitute technology export under PRC laws. In addition, Spreadtrum Shanghai has entered into licenses with us and other third parties outside of China for certain technologies, which licenses would constitute the import of technology under PRC laws. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS Spreadtrum Shanghai has not obtained the approval of, or completed the applicable registration with, the relevant PRC governmental authorities for all of its import and export of these technologies. If Spreadtrum Shanghai is found to be, or has been, in violation of PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including, but not limited to, issuing a warning, levying fines, restricting us from remitting royalties or any other fees, if any, relating to these technologies outside of China, confiscating our earnings generated from the import or export of such technology or even restricting our future export and import of any technology. If the PRC government determines that our past import and export of technology were inconsistent with, or insufficient for, the proper operation of our business, we could be subject to similar sanctions. Any of these or similar sanctions could cause significant disruption to our business operations or render us unable to conduct a substantial portion of our business operations and may adversely affect our business and result of operations. We are obligated to withhold and pay PRC individual income tax on behalf of our employees who are subject to PRC individual income tax. If we fail to withhold or pay such individual income tax in accordance with applicable PRC regulations, we may be subject to certain sanctions and other penalties and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. Under PRC laws, we are obligated to withhold and pay individual income tax on behalf of our employees who are subject to PRC individual income tax. We have paid such amounts. Although the relevant tax authority has verbally advised us that it will not impose any sanctions on us for the delay in withholding and paying individual income tax, we cannot assure you that the tax authority will not act otherwise, we will not be subject to sanctions imposed on us by the tax authority or other governmental authorities or we will not be subject to other penalties. In addition, the State Administration of Taxation has issued several circulars concerning employee stock options. Under these circulars, our employees working in China (which could include both PRC employees and expatriate employees subject to PRC individual income tax) who exercise stock options will be subject to PRC individual income tax. Our PRC subsidiaries have obligations to file documents related to employee stock options with relevant tax authorities and withhold and pay individual income taxes for those employees who exercise their stock options. However, due to the difficulty in determining the fair market value of our shares prior to our initial public offering, and based on verbal advice we received from the relevant PRC tax authority, we did not withhold and pay the individual income tax for such exercises until after the closing of our initial public offering. We cannot assure you that the tax authority will not act contrary to its previous advice and impose sanctions on us. We face risks related to health epidemics and outbreaks of contagious diseases, including swine influenza, avian influenza and SARS. In 2009, there were outbreaks of the H1N1 swine flu in North America, Europe and Asia, which caused governments around the world to take measures to prevent the spread of the virus. An outbreak of swine flu or avian flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Additionally, a recurrence of SARS, similar to the occurrence in 2003, which affected PRC, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam and certain other countries, would also have similar adverse effects. Since substantially all of our operations and substantially all of our customers and suppliers are currently based in Asia (mainly the PRC), an outbreak of swine flu, avian flu, SARS or other contagious diseases in Asia or elsewhere, or the perception that such outbreak could occur, and the measures taken by the governments of countries affected, including the PRC, would adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of our employees are identified as a possible source of spreading the H1N1 virus, the avian flu or any other similar epidemic, we may be required to quarantine employees that are suspected of being infected, as well as others that have come into contact with those employees. We may also be required to disinfect our affected premises, which could adversely affect our operations. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor is located in China, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by PCAOB. The inability of PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in China may make it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • conditions in the wireless communications industry; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies in the wireless communications industry; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of key personnel; • fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and the U.S. dollar; • intellectual property litigation; • release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ADSs or sales of additional ADSs; • general economic or political conditions in China; and • global economic and financial conditions. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our ADSs, the market price for our ADSs and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our ADSs is influenced by research or reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our ADSs, the market price for our ADSs would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price for our ADSs or trading volume to decline. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, anticipated cash flow from operations, the net proceeds from our initial public offering, the RMB 300 million bank loan Spreadtrum Shanghai obtained in April 2009 and the $64.0 million short-term bank loans we obtained in May and July 2011 will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the near future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Substantial future sales or the perception of sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ADSs, including those issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, in the public market, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. If any existing shareholder or shareholders sell a substantial amount of ordinary shares, the prevailing market price for our ADSs could be adversely affected. In addition, we may issue additional ordinary shares or ADSs for future acquisitions. If we pay for our future acquisitions in whole or in part with additionally issued ordinary shares or ADSs, your ownership interests in our company would be diluted and this, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. Holders of our ADSs may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. Upon our written request, the depositary will provide you with a shareholder meeting notice which contains, among other things, a statement as to the manner in which your voting instructions may be given, including an express indication that such instructions may be given or deemed given to the depositary to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us if no instructions are received by the depositary from you on or before the response date established by the depositary. However, no voting instruction shall be deemed given and no such discretionary proxy shall be given with respect to any matter as to which we inform the depositary that we do not wish such proxy given, substantial opposition exists, or such matter materially and adversely affects the rights of shareholders. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS Your ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, will be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, conduct substantially all of our operations in China and a majority of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through Spreadtrum Shanghai. A majority of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or these directors and officers in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render it impossible for you to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and in protecting your rights through the United States federal courts, because we are incorporated under the Cayman Islands law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2011 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands have a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provide significantly less protection to investors. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulties protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the United States. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the United States federal courts. As a result of all of the above, you may not be able to protect your interests if you are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable you to sue in a United States federal court. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the United States securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, has adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains the management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. These requirements applied to us for the first time in connection with our Annual Report on Form 20-F filed with the SEC on June 30, 2009. Our management has concluded that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. If we fail to maintain effective internal control, we may not be able to rely on our financial reporting. Even if we conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our internal control or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important to help us manage the company effectively and prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our articles of association contain provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company. These provisions could deprive our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares at a 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS premium over the prevailing market price by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transactions. Our articles include the following provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company: • Our board of directors has the authority, without approval by the shareholders, to issue up to a total of 15,000,000 preference shares in one or more series. Our board of directors may establish the number of shares to be included in each such series and may fix the designations, preferences, powers and other rights of the shares of a series of preference shares, which may be greater than the preferences, powers and other rights of the ordinary shares represented by our ADSs. • Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy on the board or as an addition to the existing Board, which prevents shareholders from having the sole right to fill vacancies on our board of directors. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequence to United States holders. A non-United States corporation will be considered a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (generally based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. PFIC status depends on the composition of our assets and income and the value of our assets (including, among others, a pro rata portion of the income and assets of each subsidiary in which we own, directly or indirectly, at least 25% (by value) of the equity interest) from time to time. Because we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash or cash equivalents, and, because the calculation of the value of our assets may be based in part on the value of our ADSs, which is likely to fluctuate (and may fluctuate considerably given that market prices of technology companies historically have been especially volatile), we may be a PFIC for any taxable year. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a United States holder held an ADS or an ordinary share, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to the United States holder. We do not believe we were a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2011. Based on the current price of our ADSs, and the composition of our income and assets, we do not expect to be considered a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2012. However, we must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a PFIC (after the close of each taxable year) and we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2012 or any future taxable year. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS 