Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Such factors could have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. We believe the most significant of these risks and uncertainties are as follows: We depend on long-term government contracts, many of which are funded on an annual basis. If appropriations are not made in subsequent years of a multiple-year contract, we will not realize all of our potential revenue and profit from that project. A majority of our revenues is derived from contracts with agencies and departments of federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign governments. During our 2004, 2005 and 2006 the fiscal years, approximately 74.5%, 69.2% and 54.7%, respectively, of our total revenues were derived from contracts with government entities. Most government contracts are subject to the continuing availability of legislative appropriation. Legislatures typically appropriate funds for a given program on a year-by-year basis, even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at the beginning of a program, the related contract is only partially funded, and additional funding is normally committed only as appropriations are made in each subsequent fiscal year. These appropriations, and the timing of payment of appropriated amounts, may be influenced by, among other things, the state of the economy, competing priorities for appropriation, the timing and amount of tax receipts and the overall level of government expenditures. If appropriations are not made in subsequent years on government contracts, then we will not realize all of our potential revenue and profit from that contract. Because we depend on government contracts for a significant portion of our revenue, our inability to win profitable government contracts could harm our operations and adversely affect our net income. Revenues from U.S. federal government contracts and state and local government contracts represented approximately 8.3% and 31.5%, respectively, of our total revenues during fiscal year 2006 and revenues from foreign government contracts represented approximately 14.9% of such annual revenues. Our inability to win profitable government contracts could harm our operations and adversely affect our net income. Government contracts are typically awarded through a heavily regulated procurement process. Some government contracts are 11 Table of Contents awarded to multiple competitors, causing increases in overall competition and pricing pressure. The competition and pricing pressure, in turn, may require us to make sustained post-award efforts to reduce costs in order to realize revenues under these contracts. If we are not successful in reducing the amount of costs we anticipate, our profitability on these contracts may be negatively impacted. Also, some of our federal government contracts require U.S. government security clearances. If we or certain of our personnel were to lose these security clearances, our ability to continue performance of these contracts or to win new contracts requiring a clearance may be negatively impacted. We depend on contracts that may be terminated by our clients on short notice, which may affect our ability to recognize all of our potential revenue and profit from the project. Substantially all of our contracts are subject to termination by the client either at its convenience or upon our default. If one of our clients terminates a contract at its convenience, then we typically are able to recover only costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination, which could prevent us from recognizing all of our potential revenue and profit from that contract. If one of our clients terminates the contract due to our default, we could be liable for excess costs incurred by the client in re-procuring services from another source, as well as other costs. Our contracts with governmental agencies are subject to audit, which could result in adjustments to reimbursable contract costs or, if we are charged with wrongdoing, possible temporary or permanent suspension from participating in government programs. Our books and records are subject to audit by the various governmental agencies we serve and by their representatives. These audits can result in adjustments to reimbursable contract costs and allocated overhead. In addition, if as a result of an audit, we or one of our subsidiaries is charged with wrongdoing or the government agency determines that we or one of our subsidiaries is otherwise no longer eligible for federal contracts, then we or, as applicable, that subsidiary, could be temporarily suspended or, in the event of convictions or civil judgments, could be prohibited from bidding on and receiving future government contracts for a period of time. Furthermore, as a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to an increased risk of investigations, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities to which non-government contractors are not, the results of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We submit change orders to our customers for work we perform beyond the scope of some of our contracts. If our customers do not approve these change orders, our net income and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We typically submit change orders under some of our contracts for payment of work performed beyond the initial contractual requirements. The applicable customers may not approve or may contest these change orders and we cannot assure you that these claims will be approved in whole, in part or at all. If these claims are not approved, our net income and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by losses under fixed-price contracts. We sometimes enter into fixed-price contracts that require us to either perform all work under the contract for a specified lump-sum or to perform an estimated number of units of work at an agreed price per unit, with the total payment determined by the actual number of units performed. In our 2006 fiscal year, approximately $10.8 million of our total revenue, or approximately 5.5% of our total revenue for fiscal 2006, was derived from fixed-price contracts. Fixed-price contracts expose us to a number of risks not inherent in cost-plus contracts, including underestimation of costs, ambiguities in specifications, unforeseen costs or difficulties, delays beyond our control, failures of subcontractors to perform and economic or other changes that may occur during the contract period. Losses under fixed-price contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business. 12 Table of Contents Our backlog of uncompleted projects under contract or awarded is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations, including future appropriations by the applicable contracting government agency, and is, therefore, an uncertain indicator of our future revenues and profits. At December 31, 2006, our backlog of uncompleted projects under contract or awarded was approximately $247,000,000. We cannot assure you that the revenues attributed to uncompleted projects under contract will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. Many projects may remain in our backlog for an extended period of time because of the size or long-term nature of the contract. In addition, from time to time projects are scaled back or cancelled. These types of backlog reductions adversely affect the revenue and profit that we ultimately receives from contracts reflected in our backlog. Included in our backlog is the maximum amount of all indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity (“ID/IQ”), or task order, contracts, or a lesser amount if we do not reasonably expect to be issued task orders for the maximum amount of such contracts. We can not provide any assurance that we will in fact be awarded the maximum amount of such contracts. We are dependent upon our key personnel. We are dependent upon the efforts of our executive officers, particularly Irvin E. Richter. Mr. Richter has served as our only Chief Executive Officer since our founding in 1976, and the loss of Mr. Richter’s services could have an adverse effect on our operations. We and Mr. Richter are parties to an employment agreement for a term that commenced on June 28, 2006 and which extends until June 27, 2009. We also maintain key-man life insurance coverage for Mr. Richter. Our ability to grow and compete in our industry will be harmed if we do not retain the continued service of our key management, sales and technical personnel and identify, hire and retain additional qualified personnel. There is intense competition for qualified management, sales and technical personnel in the industry sectors in which we compete. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel who are necessary for the development of our business or to replace qualified personnel. Any growth we experience is expected to place increased demands on our resources and will likely require the addition of personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing personnel. Also, some of our personnel hold security clearance levels required to obtain government projects and, if we were to lose some or all of these personnel, they may be difficult to replace. Loss of the services of, or failure to recruit, key personnel could limit our ability to complete existing projects successfully and to compete for new projects. Our dependence on subcontractors, partners and specialists could adversely affect our business. We rely on third-party subcontractors as well as third-party strategic partners and specialists to complete our projects. To the extent that we cannot engage such subcontractors, partners or specialists or cannot engage them on a competitive basis, our ability to complete a project in a timely fashion or at a profit may be impaired. If we are unable to engage appropriate strategic partners or specialists in some instances, we could lose the ability to win some contracts. In addition, if a subcontractor or specialist is unable to deliver our services according to the negotiated terms for any reason, including the deterioration of our financial condition or over-commitment of our resources, we may be required to purchase the services from another source at a higher price. This may reduce the profit to be realized or result in a loss on a project for which the services were needed. If our partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to legal liability, loss of reputation or reduced profits. We sometimes enter into joint ventures subcontracts and other contractual arrangements with outside parties to jointly bid on and execute a particular project. The success of these joint projects depends on the satisfactory performance of the contractual obligations of our partners. If any of our partners fails to satisfactorily perform its 13 Table of Contents contractual obligations, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to complete the project. If we are unable to adequately address our partner’s performance issues, then our client could terminate the joint project, exposing us to legal liability, loss of reputation or reduced profits. Our services expose us to significant risks of liability and our insurance policies may not provide adequate coverage. Our services involve significant risks of professional and other liabilities that may substantially exceed the fees that we derive from our services. In addition, we sometimes contractually assume liability under indemnification agreements. We cannot predict the magnitude of potential liabilities from the operation of our business. We currently maintain comprehensive general liability, umbrella and professional liability insurance policies. Professional liability policies are “claims made” policies. Thus, only claims made during the term of the policy are covered. Additionally, our insurance policies may not protect us against potential liability due to various exclusions and retentions. Partially or completely uninsured claims, if successful and of significant magnitude, could have a material adverse affect on our business. International operations expose us to legal, political and economic risks in different countries and currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial results. During our 2004, 2005 and 2006 fiscal years, total revenues attributable to our international operations were 28.1%, 34.6% and 49.1%, respectively. We expect the percentage of revenues attributable to our international operations to continue to increase. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • lack of developed legal systems to enforce contractual rights; • greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collections cycles; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • imposition of governmental controls; • political and economic instability; • changes in U.S. and other national government policies affecting the markets for our services; • changes in regulatory practices, tariffs and taxes; • potential non-compliance with a wide variety of non-U.S. laws and regulations; and • general economic and political conditions in these foreign markets. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Changes to the laws of the foreign countries in which we operate may adversely affect our international operations. We have contracts to perform services for projects located in a number of foreign countries, including, among others, the United Kingdom, the United Arab Emirates, Turkey, Romania, Kuwait, Qatar, Bahrain, Iraq, China and Australia. We expect to have additional similar contracts in the future. In addition, we have offices in more than 25 foreign countries. The laws and regulations in the countries in which we are working on projects or in which we have offices might change in a manner that negatively impacts our business. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. 14 Table of Contents Our business sometimes requires our employees to travel to and work in high security risk countries, which may result in employee injury, repatriation costs or other unforeseen costs. Many of our employees often travel to and work in high security risk countries around the world that are undergoing or that may undergo political, social and economic upheavals resulting in war, civil unrest, criminal activity or acts of terrorism. For example, we have employees working in Iraq, a high security risk country with substantial civil unrest and acts of terrorism. As a result, we may be subject to costs related to employee injury, repatriation or other unforeseen circumstances. We have acquired and may continue to acquire businesses as strategic opportunities arise and may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions. Since 1998, we have acquired nine businesses and our strategy is to continue to expand and diversify our operations with additional acquisitions as strategic opportunities arise. Some of the risks that may affect our ability to realize any anticipated benefits from businesses that we acquire include: • unexpected losses of key personnel or clients of the acquired business; • difficulties arising from the increasing scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and • adverse effects on existing business relationships with clients. In addition, managing the growth of our operations will require us to continually improve our operational, financial and human resources management systems and other internal systems and controls. If we are unable to manage any growth effectively or to successfully integrate any acquisitions, that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot be certain that we will be able to raise capital or obtain debt financing to execute future acquisitions or to meet required capital needs. We are currently party to a revolving credit agreement to assist in funding working capital needs and for potential future acquisitions. This agreement contains certain covenants with respect to minimum net worth, total debt to EBITDA ratios, fixed charge coverage ratio and billed accounts receivable to total debt ratios as well as other financial covenants. Poor performance by us could cause us to be in default of these covenants. In addition, the current agreement may not be sufficient to meet future needs of the business if a decline in financial performance occurs and there is no guarantee that we could increase the existing agreement or obtain alternative debt or equity financing. The market price for our common stock could be volatile and could decline, resulting in a substantial or complete loss of your investment. The stock markets, including the Nasdaq Global Market on which we list our common stock, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be similarly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • actual or anticipated differences in our operating results; • changes in our revenues or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts; • additions and departures of key personnel; 15 Table of Contents • speculation in the press or investment community; • actions by institutional shareholders; • changes in accounting principles; • terrorist acts; and • general market conditions, including factors unrelated to our performance. Future sales of our common stock may depress the price of our common stock. As of March 17, 2007, there were 22,300,258 shares of our common stock outstanding. An aggregate of an additional 14,500,000 additional shares of our common stock may be issued upon the exercise of certain warrants and 795,000 additional shares of our common stock upon the exercise of options to employees, management and directors. There are also currently 1,500,000 shares of our common stock subject to lock-up agreements expiring in June 2007 and an additional 13,783,295 shares of our common stock subject to lock-up agreements expiring in December 2007. Sales of a substantial number of these shares in the public market could decrease the market price of our common stock. In addition, the perception that such sales might occur may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Future issuances or sales of our common stock could have an adverse defect on the market price of our common stock. Voting control by four of our directors and one major stockholder may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. Five persons who are parties to a voting agreement dated June 28, 2006 (Irvin Richter, David Richter, Brady Richter, Eric Rosenfeld and Arnaud Ajdler) own approximately 66.9% of our voting stock. These persons have agreed to vote for each other’s designees to our board of directors through director elections in 2008. Accordingly, they will be able to control the election of directors and, therefore, our policies and direction during the term of the voting agreement. This concentration of ownership and voting agreement could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 