ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our future growth will depend on our ability to raise additional debt and equity capital. We are subject to risks associated with debt and capital stock issuances and such issuances may have consequences to holders of our common and preferred stock. Our future growth will depend, in large part, upon our ability to raise additional capital. If we were to raise additional capital through the issuance of equity securities, we could dilute the interests of holders of our common stock. Our Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of additional classes of preferred stock which may have rights that could dilute, or otherwise adversely affect, the interest of holders of our common stock. We intend to incur additional indebtedness in the future, which may include a corporate credit facility. Such indebtedness could also have other important consequences to holders of our common and preferred stock, including, subjecting us to covenants restricting our operating flexibility, increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements, requiring the use of a portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements, and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. A negative book equity balance may impair our ability to raise new debt or equity capital. Beginning in the second quarter of 2007, the sub-prime residential lending and single family housing markets in the U.S. began to experience significant default rates, declining real estate values and increasing backlog of housing supply, and other lending markets experienced higher volatility and decreased liquidity resulting from the poor credit performance in the residential lending markets. Concerns in the residential sector of the capital markets quickly spread more broadly into the asset-backed, commercial real estate, corporate and other credit and equity markets. During 2008, 2009 and 2010, the global capital markets experienced volatility and a wide-ranging lack of liquidity. The impact of the global credit crisis on commercial mortgage finance was acute. Transaction volume declined significantly, credit spreads for forms of mortgage debt investments reached all-time highs, and other forms of financing from the debt markets were dramatically curtailed. The dislocation in the debt capital markets, coupled with a recession in the United States, reduced property valuations and adversely impacted commercial real estate fundamentals. These developments impacted the performance of our portfolio of financial and real property assets. Among other things, such conditions resulted in our recognizing significant amounts of loan loss reserves and impairments, and depressed the price of our common stock, effectively removing our ability to raise public capital during this period. As a result of recording these impairments, our book equity balance is negative, although we expect a significant reversal of the negative book equity once the sale of the collateral management and sub-servicing agreements is completed. Nevertheless, the capital markets may have a negative perception of our long-term and short-term financial prospects due to our current negative book equity balance and accordingly, our ability to raise new debt or equity capital could be impaired. Termination of our Asset Management Agreement could harm our business. We have agreed to manage the KBS portfolio on behalf KBS pursuant to the Management Agreement through December 31, 2015 for a fixed fee of $9.0 million annually, the reimbursement of certain costs and the potential to earn certain incentive fees as therein provided. The Management Agreement may be terminated by KBS without cause, with an effective termination date of March 31 or September 30 of any year but at no time prior to September 30, 2013, upon 90 days’ prior written notice. There can be no assurance a termination will occur notwithstanding our efforts. Upon any termination of the Management Agreement, our management fees, after payment of any termination payments required, would cease, thereby reducing our expected revenues, which could harm our business. Lack of diversification in number of investments increases our dependence on individual investments. If we acquire larger property interests, our portfolio will be concentrated in a smaller number of assets or with a less diverse tenant base, increasing the risk of loss to stockholders if a default or other problem arises. Alternatively, property sales may reduce the aggregate amount of our property investment portfolio, and number of investments in either or each, our portfolio may become concentrated in larger assets, thereby reducing the benefits of diversification by geography, property type, tenancy or other measures. 13 If we fail to achieve adequate operating cash flow, our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected. As a REIT, we must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, if any, to our stockholders, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. Our ability to make and sustain cash distributions is based on many factors, including the return on our investments, operating expense levels, and certain restrictions imposed by Maryland law. Some of the factors are beyond our control and a change in any such factor could affect our ability to pay future dividends. No assurance can be given as to our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our CDOs could generate “phantom” income. Subsequent to the sale of the collateral manager agreements, we will continue to own the subordinate notes and preferred and ordinary shares of our CDOs. These retained interests in the CDOs could continue to generate taxable income for us despite the fact that, we will not receive cash distributions on our equity and subordinated note holdings from these CDOs until overcollateralization tests are met, if at all. Additionally, once the collateral manager agreements are sold, we will not control or have influence over the factors that most directly affect the overcollateralization and interest coverage tests of the respective CDOs. Should these CDOs continue to generate taxable income with no corresponding receipt of cash flow, our taxable income would continue to be recognized on each underlying investment in the relevant CDO. We would continue to be required to distribute 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding net capital gain) from these transactions to continue to qualify as a REIT, despite the fact that we may not receive cash distributions on our equity and subordinated note holdings from these CDOs. We may experience reductions in portfolio income which would reduce our ability to make distributions over time. Due to our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, if any, to stockholders. We may experience declines in the size of the investment portfolio over time. A reduction in the size of our portfolio would also result in reduced income available for distribution and thereby lessen our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We are dependent on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. We rely on a small number of persons who comprise our existing senior management team and our board of directors to implement our business and investment strategies. While we have entered into employment and/or retention agreements with certain members of our senior management team, they may nevertheless cease to provide services to us at any time. The loss of services of any of our key management personnel or directors or significant numbers of other employees, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel or directors in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business. Quarterly results may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future quarterly performance. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate; therefore, you should not rely on past quarterly results to be indicative of our performance in future quarters. Factors that could cause quarterly operating results to fluctuate include, among others, variations in our investment origination volume, impairments, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. The competitive pressures we face as a result of operating in a highly competitive market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We have significant competition with respect to our acquisition and origination of assets with many other companies, including other REITs, insurance companies, private investment funds, hedge funds, specialty finance companies and other investors. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, there is significant competition on a national, regional and local level with respect to property management services and in commercial real estate services generally and we are subject to competition from large national and multi-national firms as well as local or regional firms that offer similar services to ours. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and operational resources, larger customer bases, and more established relationships with their customers and suppliers than we do. The competitive pressures we face, if not effectively managed, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive origination and investment opportunities and therefore may not be able to identify and pursue opportunities that are consistent with our objectives. Competition may limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us. It may also result in higher prices, lower yields and a narrower spread of yields over our borrowing costs, making it more difficult for us to acquire new investments on attractive terms. In addition, competition for desirable investments could delay the investment in desirable assets, which may in turn reduce our earnings per share and negatively affect our ability to declare distributions to our stockholders. We are exposed to litigation risks in our role as property manager and special servicer. GKK Realty Advisors' role as manager for the assets transferred to KBS and the Manager's role as collateral manager for our CDOs, as well as GKK Loan Servicing LLC's role as a special servicer expose us to litigation risks. In these roles, we make investment, asset management, loan work-out, and other decisions which could result in adverse financial impacts to third-parties. These parties may pursue legal action against us as a result of these decisions, the outcomes of which cannot be certain. 14 The role of the Manager as collateral manager for our CDOs and GKK Realty Advisors’ role as property manager for the assets transferred to KBS may expose us to liabilities to CDO debt holders or KBS. We were subject to potential liabilities to investors as a result of the Manager's role as collateral manager for our CDOs and our asset and property management business generally. In serving in such roles, we could be subject to claims by CDO debt holders and KBS that we did not act in accordance with our duties under our CDO and property management documentation or that we were negligent in taking or refraining from taking actions with respect to the underlying collateral in our CDOs or in managing the assets transferred to KBS. In particular, the discretion that we exercised in managing the collateral for our CDOs and managing the assets transferred to KBS could result in a liability due to inherent uncertainties surrounding the course of action that will result in the best long term results with respect to such collateral and investments. This risk could be increased due to the affiliated nature of our roles. If we were found liable for our actions as collateral manager or property manager and we were required to pay significant damages to our CDOs or KBS, our financial condition could be materially adversely effected. Claims may arise under an indemnification provided by us to the trustee of our 2005 CDO and 2006 CDO in connection with note cancellations. Our subsidiary, Gramercy Manager LLC, the current collateral manager, had provided separate limited indemnities to the trustee of our 2005 CDO and 2006 CDO in connection with CDO note cancellations we undertook in 2011 in accordance with the operative documents of each CDO. These cancellations were undertaken to reduce the total debt owed by our 2005 CDO and our 2006 CDO and improve their compliance with certain overcollateralization tests. Payments made by us, if any, under these indemnities would reduce our liquidity available for general corporate purposes and investments. We may be subject to lender liability claims. In recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed “lender liability.” Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or stockholders. There can be no assurance that such claims will not arise or that we will not be subject to significant liability if a claim of this type did arise. We do not know what impact the Dodd-Frank Act will have on our business. On July 21, 2010, the United States enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act affects almost every aspect of the U.S. financial services industry, including certain aspects of the markets in which we operate. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes new regulations on us and how we conduct our business. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act will impose additional disclosure requirements for public companies and generally require issuers or originators of asset-backed securities to retain at least five percent of the credit risk associated with the securitized assets. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act required us to register as an investment advisor with the SEC, which will increase our regulatory compliance costs and subject us to new restrictions as well as penalties for any future non-compliance with these regulations. Importantly, many key aspects of the changes imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act will be established by various regulatory bodies and other groups over the next several years. As a result, we do not know how significantly the Dodd-Frank Act will affect us. It is possible that the Dodd-Frank Act could, among other things, increase our costs of operating as a public company, impose restrictions on our ability to securitize assets and reduce our investment returns on securitized assets. We are required to make a number of judgments in applying accounting policies and different estimates and assumptions in the application of these policies could result in changes to our reporting of financial condition and results of operations. Various estimates are used in the preparation of our financial statements, including estimates related to asset and liability valuations (or potential impairments), and various receivables. Often these estimates require the use of market data values which may be difficult to assess, as well as estimates of future performance or receivables collectability which may be difficult to accurately predict. While we have identified those accounting policies that are considered critical and have procedures in place to facilitate the associated judgments, different assumptions in the application of these policies could result in material changes to our reports of financial condition and results of operations. Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exclusions and exemptions imposes limits on our operations. We believe that there are a number of exclusions and exemptions under the Investment Company Act that may be applicable to us and we have conducted and intend to continue to conduct our operations so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We will either be excluded from the definition of investment company under Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act, by owning or proposing to acquire “investment securities” having a value not exceeding 40% of the value of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. Government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis, or exempted by qualifying for the exemptions from registration provided by Sections 3(a)(1)(A), 3(c)(5)(C) and/or 3(c)(6) of the Investment Company Act. Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act defines an investment company as any issuer which is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposed to engage primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. We believe we will not be considered an investment company under Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act because we will not engage primarily or hold ourselves out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Section 3(c)(5)(C) exempts from the definition of “investment company” any person who is “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” Additionally, Section 3(c)(6) exempts from the definition of “investment company” any company primarily engaged, directly or through majority-owned subsidiaries, in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate. The assets that we have acquired and may acquire in the future, therefore, are limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the exclusions and exemptions on which we rely. In addition, we could, among other things, be required either (a) to change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (b) to register as an investment company, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business and our ability to pay dividends. 15 To maintain our qualification for an exclusion from registration under the Investment Company Act pursuant to Sections 3(c)(5)(C) and 3(c)(6) at least 55% of our portfolio, or the assets of our majority-owned subsidiaries, must be comprised of qualifying assets under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, and 80% of our portfolio, or the assets of our majority-owned subsidiaries, must be comprised of qualifying assets and real estate-related assets under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act. In addition, we may not issue “redeemable securities.” To comply with the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exemption, we may from time to time buy RMBS and other qualifying assets. We generally expect that mortgage loans, junior (first loss) interests in whole pool CMBS, real property investments, certain distressed debt securities and Tier 1 mezzanine loans to be qualifying assets under the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exemption from the Investment Company Act. Tier 1 mezzanine loans are loans granted to a mezzanine borrower that directly owns interests in the entity that owns the property being financed. The treatment of distressed debt securities as qualifying assets is, and will be, based on the characteristics of the particular type of loan, including its foreclosure rights. Although SEC staff no-action letters have not specifically addressed the categorization of these types of assets, we believe junior (first loss) interests in CMBS pools may constitute qualifying assets under Section 3(c)(5)(C) provided that we have the unilateral right to foreclose, directly or indirectly, on the mortgages in the pool and that we may act as the controlling class or directing holder of the pool. Similarly, subordinate interests in whole loans may constitute qualifying assets under Section 3(c)(5)(C) provided that, among other things, approval rights in connection with any material decisions pertaining to the administration and servicing of the relevant mortgage loan and, in the event that the mortgage loan becomes non-performing, we have effective control over the remedies relating to the enforcement of the loan, including ultimate control of the foreclosure process. We generally do not treat non-Tier 1 mezzanine loans and preferred equity investments as qualifying assets. Although we monitor our portfolio periodically and prior to each origination or acquisition of a new asset or disposition of an existing asset, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain an exclusion or exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act. Further, we may not be able to invest in sufficient qualifying and/or real estate-related assets and future revision or interpretations of the Investment Company Act may cause us to lose our exclusion or exemption or force us to re-evaluate our portfolio and our business strategy. Such changes may prevent us from operating our business successfully. No assurance can be given that the SEC staff will concur with our classification of our assets, or that the SEC staff will not, in the future, issue further guidance that may require us to reclassify those assets for purpose of qualifying for an exemption or exclusion from regulation under the Investment Company Act. To the extent that the staff of the SEC provides more specific guidance regarding any of the matters bearing upon the definition of investment company and the exceptions to that definition, we may be required to adjust our investment strategy accordingly. Any additional guidance from the staff of the SEC could provide additional flexibility to us, or it could further inhibit our ability to pursue the investment strategy we have chosen. In consultation with legal and tax advisors, we periodically evaluate our assets, and also evaluate prior to an acquisition or origination the structure of each prospective investment or asset, to determine whether we avoid coming within the definition of investment company in Section 3(a)(1)(C) and/or whether we believe the investment will be a qualifying asset for purposes of maintaining the exemptions found in Sections 3(c)(5)(C) and/or 3(c)(6) from registration under the Investment Company Act. We consult with counsel to assist us with such determination as appropriate. If we are obligated to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act, including limitations on capital structure, restrictions on specified investments, prohibitions on transactions with affiliates, changes in the composition of our board of directors and compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly change our operations. The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers such as GKKM. The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers such as GKKM, including record-keeping, operational and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. The Investment Company Act imposes stringent governance, compliance, operational, disclosure and related obligations on registered investment companies and their investment advisers and distributors, such as GKKM. The SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Advisers Act and the Investment Company Act, ranging from fines and censure to termination of an investment adviser’s registration. Investment advisers also are subject to certain state securities laws and regulations. Non-compliance with the Advisers Act, the Investment Company Act or other federal and state securities laws and regulations could result in investigations, sanctions, disgorgement, fines and reputational damage. We may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses. Recent market conditions have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. The models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. In times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. These types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. These changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. In these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. To the extent that we make investments that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. 16 We may change our investment and operational policies without stockholder consent. We may change our investment and operational policies, including our policies with respect to investments, acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the types of investments described in this filing. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations, all of which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the market for our common stock, the industry in which we conduct our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may harm our results of operations and the stockholders’ investment. We cannot assure the stockholders that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the U.S. or U.S. businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact the property underlying our asset-based securities or the securities markets in general. Losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets and economy. Adverse economic conditions could harm the value of our properties, or the securities markets in general which could harm our operating results and revenues and may result in increased volatility of the value of our securities. We are highly dependent on information systems and third-parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems, some of which are provided by third-parties. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Investments Investing in real estate is a competitive business and we will rely on acquisitions in order to grow. In order to grow we need to continue to acquire and finance investment properties and sell non-core properties. The acquisition and sale of investment properties is subject to competitive pressures from many market participants and we expect strong competition from other REITs, businesses, individuals, fiduciary accounts and plans, as well as other entities engaged in real estate investment and financing. Many of these competitors are larger than we are and have access to greater financial resources. Such competition may limit our ability to acquire properties and grow or may result in a higher cost to us for properties we wish to purchase. We structure many of our real property acquisitions using complex structures often based on forecasted results for the acquisitions, and if the acquired properties underperforms forecasted results, our financial condition and operating results may be harmed. We may acquire some of our properties under complex structures that we tailor to meet the specific needs of the tenants and/or sellers. For instance, we may enter into transactions under which a portion of the properties are vacant or will be vacant following the completion of the acquisition. If we fail to accurately forecast the leasing of such properties following our acquisition, our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to stockholders, may be adversely impacted. Cash flow from operations depends in part on the ability to lease space to tenants on economically favorable terms. We could be adversely affected by various facts and events over which we have limited or no control. We could be adversely affected by various facts and events over which we have limited or no control, such as (i) lack of demand in areas where our properties are located; (ii) inability to retain existing tenants and attract new tenants; (iii) oversupply of space and changes in market rental rates; (iv) declines in our tenants' creditworthiness and ability to pay rent, which may be affected by their operations, the current economic situation and competition within their industries from other operators; (v) defaults by and bankruptcies of tenants, (vi) failure of tenants to pay rent on a timely basis, or failure of tenants to comply with their contractual obligations; (vii) economic or physical decline of the areas where the properties are located; and (viii) deterioration of physical condition of our properties. Negative market conditions or adverse events affecting our existing or potential tenants, or the industries in which they operate, could have an adverse impact on our ability to attract new tenants, re-lease space, collect rent or renew leases, which could adversely affect our financial condition. 17 At any time, any tenant may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its operating results or overall financial condition. As a result, a tenant may delay lease commencement, fail to make rental payments when due, decline to extend a lease upon its expiration, become insolvent or declare bankruptcy. Any tenant bankruptcy or insolvency, leasing delay or failure to make rental payments when due could result in the termination of the tenant's lease and material losses to us. If tenants do not renew their leases as they expire, we may not be able to rent or sell the properties. Furthermore, leases that are renewed, and some new leases for properties that are re-leased, may have terms that are less economically favorable than expiring lease terms, or may require us to incur significant costs, such as renovations, tenant improvements or lease transaction costs. Negative market conditions may cause us to sell vacant properties for less than their carrying value, which could result in impairments. Any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition. A significant portion of the costs of owning property, such as real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance, are not necessarily reduced when circumstances cause a decrease in rental revenue from the properties. In a weakened financial condition, tenants may not be able to pay these costs of ownership and we may be unable to recover these operating expenses from them. We expect to lease a significant portion of our real estate to middle market businesses which may be more susceptible to adverse market conditions. We expect that a substantial number of our properties will be leased to middle market businesses that generally have less financial and other resources than larger businesses. Middle-market companies are more likely to be adversely affected by a downturn in their respective businesses or in the regional, national or international economy. As such negative market conditions affecting existing or potential middle-market tenants, or the industries in which they operate, could adversely affect our financial condition. We may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic changes in geographic areas where our properties are concentrated. Adverse conditions in the areas where our properties are located (including business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors) and local real estate conditions (such as oversupply of, or reduced demand for, office, industrial or retail properties) may have an adverse effect on the value of our properties. A material decline in the demand or the ability of tenants to pay rent for office, industrial or retail space in these geographic areas may result in a material decline in our cash available for distribution. Our real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property. Real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property, including: •acts of God, including earthquakes floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses; •acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks; •adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions, including the credit and securitization markets; •changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; •real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of or a reduction in demand for real estate space in the area; •the perceptions of tenants and prospective tenants of the convenience, attractiveness and safety of our properties; •competition from comparable properties; •the occupancy rate of our properties; •the ability to collect on a timely basis all rent from tenants; •the effects of any bankruptcies or insolvencies of major tenants; •the expense of re-leasing space; •changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funding; •the impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws; and •cost of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act; If any of these or similar events occur, it may reduce our return from an affected property or investment and reduce or eliminate our ability to make distributions to stockholders. 18 Joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer’s financial condition. We co-invest with third-parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. Therefore, we will not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding that property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third-party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals. These investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Consequently, actions by such partner, co-tenant or co-venturer might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. We may in the future enter, into joint venture agreements that contain terms in favor of our partners that may have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures. For example, we may be entitled under a particular joint venture agreement to an economic share in the profits of the joint venture that is smaller than our ownership percentage in the joint venture, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such profits and our partner may have rights to buy our interest in the joint venture, to force us to buy the partner’s interest in the joint venture or to compel the sale of the property owned by such joint venture. These rights may permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit from the value or profits of the joint venture than us, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our investment in the joint venture and on our financial condition and results of operations. The bankruptcy or insolvency of our tenants under their leases or delays by our tenants in making rental payments could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. Any bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of our tenants could bar us from collecting pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or its property, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from the bankruptcy court. A tenant bankruptcy could delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. Any unsecured claim we hold against a bankrupt entity may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. We may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims, which would harm our financial condition. Many of our tenants within our joint venture with Garrison, are banks that are not eligible to be debtors under the federal bankruptcy code, but would be subject to the liquidation and insolvency provisions of applicable banking laws and regulations. If the FDIC were appointed as receiver of a banking tenant because of a tenant’s insolvency, we would become an unsecured creditor of the tenant and be entitled to share with the other unsecured non-depositor creditors in the tenant’s assets on an equal basis after payment to the depositors of their claims. The FDIC has broad powers to reject any contract (including a lease) of a failed depository institution that the FDIC deems burdensome if the FDIC determines that such rejection is necessary to promise the orderly administration of the institution’s affairs. By federal statute, a landlord under a lease rejected by the FDIC is not entitled to claim any damages with respect to the disaffirmation, other than rent through the effective date of the disaffirmation. The amount paid on claims in respect of the lease would depend on, among other factors, the amount of assets of the insolvent tenant available for unsecured claims. We may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to stockholders at historical levels or at all. We may experience losses if the creditworthiness of our tenants deteriorates and they are unable to meet their obligations under our leases. We own the properties leased to the tenants of our real estate investments and we receive rents from the tenants during the terms of our leases. A tenant’s ability to pay rent is determined by the creditworthiness of the tenant. If a tenant’s credit deteriorates, the tenant may default on its obligations under our lease and the tenant may also become bankrupt. The bankruptcy or insolvency of our tenants or other failure to pay is likely to adversely affect the income produced by our real estate investments. If a tenant defaults, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. If a tenant files for bankruptcy, we may not be able to evict the tenant solely because of such bankruptcy or failure to pay. A court, however, may authorize a tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. In such a case, our claim against the tenant for unpaid, future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent owed under the lease. In addition, certain amounts paid to us within 90 days prior to the tenant’s bankruptcy filing could be required to be returned to the tenant’s bankruptcy estate. In any event, it is highly unlikely that a bankrupt or insolvent tenant would pay in full amounts it owes us under a lease. In other circumstances, where a tenant’s financial condition has become impaired, we may agree to partially or wholly terminate the lease in advance of the termination date in consideration for a lease termination fee that is likely less than the agreed rental amount. Without regard to the manner in which the lease termination occurs, we are likely to incur additional costs in the form of tenant improvements and leasing commissions in our efforts to lease the space to a new tenant. In any of the foregoing circumstances, our financial performance, the market prices of our securities and our ability to pay dividends could be materially adversely affected. 19 Lease defaults or terminations or landlord-tenant disputes may adversely reduce our income from our leased property portfolio. Lease defaults or terminations by one or more of our significant tenants may reduce our revenues unless a default is cured or a suitable replacement tenant is found promptly. In addition, disputes may arise between the landlord and tenant that result in the tenant withholding rent payments, possibly for an extended period. These disputes may lead to litigation or other legal procedures to secure payment of the rent withheld or to evict the tenant. Any of these situations may result in extended periods during which there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by the property. If this were to occur, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Our real estate investments may be illiquid, which could restrict our ability to respond rapidly to changes in economic conditions. The real estate and real estate-related assets in which we invest are generally illiquid. In addition, the instruments that we purchase in connection with privately negotiated transactions are not registered under the relevant securities laws, resulting in a prohibition against their transfer, sale, pledge or other disposition except in a transaction that is exempt from the registration requirements of, or is otherwise in accordance with, those laws. As a result, our ability to sell under-performing assets in our portfolio or respond to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited. We may not be able to relet or renew leases at the properties held by us on terms favorable to us. We are subject to risks that upon expiration or earlier termination of the leases for space located at our properties the space may not be relet or, if relet, the terms of the renewal or reletting (including the costs of required renovations or concessions to tenants) may be less favorable that current lease terms. Any of these situations may result in extended periods where there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by a property. If we are unable to relet or renew leases for all or substantially all of the spaces at these properties, if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected, or if our reserves for these purposes prove inadequate, we will experience a reduction in net income and may be required to reduce or eliminate distributions to our stockholders. A significant portion of our properties owned by our Joint Venture are leased to financial institutions, making us more economically vulnerable in the event of a downturn in the banking industry. The real estate owned by our joint venture with Garrison is leased primarily to financial institutions. Individual banks, as well as the banking industry in general, may be adversely affected by negative economic and market conditions throughout the United States or in the local economies in which regional or community banks operate, including negative conditions caused by the recent disruptions in the financial markets. In addition, changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws, including interest rate policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, may have an adverse impact on banks’ loan portfolios and allowances for loan losses. As a result, we may experience higher rates of lease default or terminations in the event of a downturn in the banking industry than we would if our tenant base was more diversified. Liability relating to environmental matters may impact the value of the properties that we may acquire or underlying our investments. Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on its property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. If we fail to disclose environmental issues, we could also be liable to a buyer or lessee of a property. There may be environmental problems associated with our properties which we were unaware of at the time of acquisition. The presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect our ability to sell real estate or borrow using real estate as collateral. The presence of hazardous substances, if any, on our properties may adversely affect our ability to sell an affected property and we may incur substantial remediation costs, thus harming our financial condition. In addition, although our leases, will generally require our tenants to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising from a tenant’s activities on the property, we nonetheless would be subject to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interest for environmental liabilities created by such tenants, and we cannot ensure the stockholders that any tenants we might have would satisfy their indemnification obligations under the applicable sales agreement or lease. The discovery of material environmental liabilities attached to such properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Rising operating expenses relating to our properties could reduce our cash flow and funds available for future distributions. Our properties are subject to operating risks common to real estate in general, any or all of which may negatively affect us. If the properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet expenses, including debt service, tenant improvements, leasing commissions and other capital expenditures, our cash flow will be negatively impacted and we may have to utilize our existing liquidity to cover these expenses or risk forfeiture of the assets if we default on any associated debt obligations. 20 An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the policies on our properties could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties. Under the terms and conditions of the leases currently in force on our properties, tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons, air, water, land or property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted on the properties, except for claims arising from the negligence or intentional misconduct of us or our agents. Additionally, tenants are generally required, at the tenants’ expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies issued by companies holding general policyholder ratings of at least “A” as set forth in the most current issue of Best’s Insurance Guide. Insurance policies for property damage are generally in amounts not less than the full replacement cost of the improvements less slab, foundations, supports and other customarily excluded improvements and insure against all perils of fire, extended coverage, vandalism, malicious mischief and special extended perils (“all risk,” as that term is used in the insurance industry). Insurance policies are generally obtained by the tenant providing general liability coverage varying between $1.0 million and $10.0 million depending on the facts and circumstances surrounding the tenant and the industry in which it operates. These policies include liability coverage for bodily injury and property damage arising out of the ownership, use, occupancy or maintenance of the properties and all of their appurtenant areas. Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property. In addition, the presence of significant mold could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants and others if property damage or health concerns arise. Our properties may contain asbestos which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating asbestos. Certain laws and regulations govern the removal, encapsulation or disturbance of asbestos-containing materials, or ACMs, when those materials are in poor condition or in the event of building renovation or demolition, impose certain worker protection and notification requirements, and govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. These laws may also impose liability for a release of ACMs and may enable third-parties to seek recovery against us for personal injury associated with ACMs. There are or may be ACMs at certain of our properties. We have either developed and implemented or are in the process of developing and implementing operations and maintenance programs that establish operating procedures with respect to ACMs. In March 2005, GAAP clarified that the term conditional asset retirement obligation as a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and (or) method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity. The obligation to perform the asset retirement activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists about the timing and (or) method of settlement. Thus, the timing and (or) method of settlement may be conditional on a future event. Accordingly, an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. The fair value of a liability for the conditional asset retirement obligation is recognized when incurred — generally upon acquisition, construction, or development and (or) through the normal operation of the asset. To comply with GAAP we assessed the cost associated with our legal obligation to remediate asbestos in our properties known to contain asbestos. We believe that the majority of the costs associated with our remediation of asbestos have been identified and recorded in compliance with GAAP, however other obligations associated with asbestos in our properties may exist. Other obligations associated with asbestos in our properties will be recorded in our consolidated statement of operations in the future when/if the cost is incurred. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that adversely impact our ability to pay dividends to stockholders at historical levels or at all. All of our properties are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act. The Americans with Disabilities Act has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants or both. While the tenants to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act provisions with respect to their operations, we could be required to expend our own funds to achieve such compliance should our tenants fail to do so. In addition, we (and not our tenants) are generally required to comply with Americans with Disabilities Act provisions within the parking lots, access ways and other common areas of the properties we own and to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to pay dividends to stockholders at historical levels or at all. 21 In addition to the indemnities and required insurance policies identified above, many of our properties are also covered by flood and earthquake insurance policies obtained by and paid for by the tenants as part of their risk management programs. Additionally, we have obtained blanket liability and property damage insurance policies to protect us and our properties against loss should the indemnities and insurance policies provided by the tenants fail to restore the properties to their condition prior to a loss. All of these policies may involve substantial deductibles and certain exclusions. In certain areas, we may have to obtain earthquake and flood insurance on specific properties as required by our lenders or by law. We have also obtained terrorism insurance on some of our larger office buildings, but this insurance is subject to exclusions for loss or damage caused by nuclear substances, pollutants, contaminants and biological and chemical weapons. Should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to stockholders at historical levels or at all. We are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with operating our asset and property management business. We will encounter risks and difficulties as we operate our asset and property management business. In order to achieve our goals as a property manager, we must: •actively manage the assets in such portfolios in order to realize targeted performance; and •create incentives for our management and professional staff to develop and operate the asset and property management business. If we do not successfully operate our asset and property management business to achieve the investment returns that we or the market anticipates, our operations may be adversely impacted. Some of our portfolio investments may be recorded at fair value, as a result, there will be uncertainty as to the value of these investments. Changes in the market values of our investments in securities available for sale will be directly charged or credited to stockholders’ equity. As a result, a decline in values may reduce the book value of our assets. Moreover, if the decline in value of a security is other-than-temporary, such decline will reduce earnings. Any such charges may result in volatility in our reported earnings and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Some of our portfolio investments may be in the form of securities, including CMBS, that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We value these investments quarterly. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot be assured that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. 22 We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future. Part of our investment strategy may involve entering into derivative contracts that could require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances, e.g., the early termination of the derivative agreement caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the derivative contract. The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These economic losses would be reflected in our financial results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. Risk Relating to Our Capital Structure and Access to Liquidity If we issue senior securities we will be exposed to additional restrictive covenants and limitations on our operating flexibility, which could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends. If we decide to issue senior securities in the future, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Holders of senior securities may be granted specific rights, including but not limited to: the right to hold a perfected security interest in certain of our assets, the right to accelerate payments due under the indenture, rights to restrict dividend payments and rights to require approval to sell assets. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. We, and indirectly our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase while the interest we earn on our fixed-rate investments would not change, which would adversely affect our profitability. Our operating results depend in large part on differences between the income from our investments, net of financing costs. In most cases, for any period during which our investments are not match-funded, the income from such investments will respond more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of our borrowings. Consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may significantly influence our net income. Increases in these rates will tend to decrease our net income and market value of our investments. Interest rate fluctuations resulting in our interest expense exceeding our interest income would result in operating losses for us and may limit or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. For more information on interest rate risk, see Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If credit spreads widen before we obtain long-term financing for our assets, the value of our assets may suffer. We price our assets based on our assumptions about future credit spreads for financing of those assets. We have obtained, and may obtain in the future, longer term financing for our assets using structured financing techniques. Such issuances entail interest rates set at a spread over a certain benchmark, such as the yield on United States Treasury obligations, swaps or LIBOR. If the spread that investors are paying on our current structured finance vehicles and will pay on future structured finance vehicles we may engage in over the benchmark widens and the rates we are charging or will charge on our assets are not increased accordingly, our income may be reduced or we could suffer losses, which could affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price. Under Maryland law, certain “business combinations” between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or asset transfers or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as: •any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation’s shares; or •an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our board of directors approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: •80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation; and •two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or by the interested stockholder’s affiliates or associates, voting together as a single group. 23 The business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. We have opted out of these provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, with respect to its business combination provisions and its control share provisions by resolution of our board of directors and a provision in our bylaws, respectively. However, in the future our board of directors may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the MGCL’s business combination provisions, or amend our bylaws and elect to opt in to the MGCL’s control share provisions. Additionally, Title 8, Subtitle 3 of the MGCL permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which we do not have. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third-party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the stockholders with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. Our authorized but unissued preferred stock may prevent a change in our control which could be in the stockholders’ best interests. Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock. Any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders’ interests. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board of directors may establish a series of preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common stock depends on various market conditions which may change from time to time. Among the market conditions that may affect the value of our common stock are the following: •the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; •our financial performance; and •general stock and bond market conditions. The market value of our common stock is based primarily upon the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions. Consequently, our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. If our future earnings or cash dividends are less than expected, it is likely that the market price of our common stock will decline. Risks Related to Our Taxation as a REIT Our failure to qualify as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduced cash available for stockholders. We intend to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our continued qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution and stockholder ownership requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy some of the asset tests depends upon the fair market values of our assets, some of which are not able to be precisely determined and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, and certain statutory relief provisions were not available, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. Unless entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity. In order to qualify as a REIT, each year we must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction, and not including any net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed net taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal tax laws. 24 When necessary, we intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT distribution requirements and avoid corporate income tax and/or excise tax. However, differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement or avoid corporate income or excise tax. We may own assets that generate mismatches between taxable income and available cash. These assets may include (a) securities that have been financed through financing structures which require some or all of available cash flows to be used to service borrowings, (b) loans or CMBS we hold that have been issued at a discount and require the accrual of taxable economic interest in advance of receipt in cash (c) distressed debt on which we may be required to accrue taxable interest income even though the borrower is unable to make current debt service payments in cash and (d) debt investments that generate taxable income but are held by one or more of our CDOS which is not currently making cash distributions to us as the owner of the non-investment liabilities and equity of the CDO. As a result, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our net taxable income could cause us to: (a) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (b) borrow on unfavorable terms or (c) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt to comply with REIT requirements. Further, amounts distributed will not be available to fund investment activities. We expect to fund our investments by raising equity capital and through borrowings from financial institutions and the debt capital markets. If we fail to obtain debt or equity capital in the future, it could limit our ability to grow, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. In January 2011, an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, of 1986, as amended, occurred which limits our ability to utilize our net operating losses and net capital losses against future taxable income, increasing our dividend distribution requirement which could adversely affect our liquidity. We have substantial net operating and net capital loss carry forwards which we have used to offset our tax and/or distribution requirements. In January 2011, an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code occurred, which will limit our ability to use these losses in the future. In general, an “ownership change” occurs if there is a change in ownership of more than 50% of our common stock during any cumulative three year period. For this purpose, determinations of ownership changes are generally limited to shareholders deemed to own 5% or more of our common stock. Such a change in ownership may be triggered by regular trading activity in our common stock, which is generally beyond our control. The provisions of Section 382, will impose an annual limit to the amount of net operating loss carryforward that can be used by us to offset future ordinary taxable income, beginning with our 2011 taxable year. Such limitations may increase our dividend distribution requirement in the future which could adversely affect our liquidity. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The existing REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to hedge our operations. Except to the extent provided by Treasury regulations, (i) for transactions entered into on or prior to July 30, 2008, any income from a hedging transaction we enter into in the normal course of our business primarily to manage risk of interest rate or price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made, or ordinary obligations incurred or to be incurred, to acquire or carry real estate assets, including gain from the sale or disposition of such a transaction, will not constitute gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test (and will generally constitute non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test) and (ii) for transactions entered into after July 30, 2008, any income from a hedging transaction where the instrument hedges interest rate risk on liabilities used to carry or acquire real estate or hedges risk of currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain that would be qualifying income under the 75% or 95% gross income tests will be excluded from gross income for purposes of the 75% and 95% gross income tests. To qualify under either (i) or (ii) of the preceding sentence, the hedging transaction must be clearly identified as specified in Treasury regulations before the close of the day on which it was acquired, originated or entered into. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. In addition, we must limit our aggregate income from non-qualified hedging transactions, from our provision of services and from other non-qualifying sources, to less than 5% of our annual gross income (determined without regard to gross income from qualified hedging transactions). As a result, we may have to limit our use of certain hedging techniques or implement those hedges through TRSs. This could result in greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to incur or could increase the cost of our hedging activities. If we fail to satisfy the 75% or 95% limitations, we could lose our REIT qualification for U.S. federal income tax purposes, unless our failure was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect, and we meet certain other technical requirements. Even if our failure was due to reasonable cause, we might incur a penalty tax. We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case you may be required to pay income taxes in excess of the cash dividends you receive. We may in the future distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and shares of our common stock at the election of each stockholder. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for United States federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. 25 The stock ownership limit imposed by the Internal Revenue Code for REITs and our charter may inhibit market activity in our stock and may restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% of the aggregate value of the outstanding shares of our stock. Our board of directors may not grant such an exemption to any proposed transferee whose ownership of in excess of 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares would result in the termination of our status as a REIT. These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. The tax on prohibited transactions will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing loans and selling our loans and real estate properties, that may be treated as sales for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s gain from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans and real estate, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were to sell or securitize loans or dispose of loans or real estate in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans or real estate for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans or real estate and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. It may be possible to reduce the impact of the prohibited transaction tax by engaging in securitization transactions treated as sales and loan and real estate dispositions through one or more of our TRSs, subject to certain limitations. Generally, to the extent that we engage in securitizations treated as sales or dispose of loans or real estate through one or more TRSs, the income associated with such activities would be subject to full corporate income tax at standard rates. The “taxable mortgage pool” rules may limit the manner in which we effect future securitizations and may subject us to U.S. federal income tax and increase the tax liability of our stockholders. Certain of our current and future securitizations, such as our CDOs, could be considered to result in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a REIT, so long as we or another private subsidiary REIT own 100% of the equity interests in a taxable mortgage pool, our qualification as a REIT would not be adversely affected by the characterization of the securitization as a taxable mortgage pool. We would generally be precluded, however, from holding equity interests in such securitizations through our operating partnership (unless held through a private subsidiary REIT), selling to outside investors equity interests in such securitizations or from selling any debt securities issued in connection with such securitizations that might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes. These limitations will preclude us from using certain techniques to maximize our returns from securitization transactions. Furthermore, we are taxable at the highest corporate income tax rate on a portion of the income arising from a taxable mortgage pool that is allocable to the percentage of our shares held by “disqualified organizations,” which are generally certain cooperatives, governmental entities and tax-exempt organizations that are exempt from unrelated business taxable income. We expect that disqualified organizations will own our shares from time to time. In addition, if we realize excess inclusion income and allocate it to stockholders, this income cannot be offset by net operating losses of our stockholders. If the stockholder is a tax-exempt entity and not a disqualified organization, then this income would be fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income under Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. If the stockholder is a foreign person, it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding on this. Nominees or other broker/dealers who hold our stock on behalf of disqualified organizations are subject to tax at the highest corporate income tax rate on a portion of our excess inclusion income allocable to the stock held on behalf of disqualified organizations. If the stockholder is a REIT, a regulated investment company, or RIC, common trust fund, or other pass-through entity, its allocable share of our excess inclusion income could be considered excess inclusion income of such entity and such entity will be subject to tax at the highest corporate tax rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to their owners that are disqualified organizations. Accordingly, such investors should be aware that a portion of our income may be considered excess inclusion income. Finally, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, our taxable mortgage pool securitizations will be treated as separate taxable corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We may be unable to generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses and to pay distributions to our stockholders. As a REIT, we are generally required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and not including net capital gains, each year to our stockholders. To qualify for the tax benefits accorded to REITs, we have and intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts such that we distribute all or substantially all our net taxable income each year, subject to certain adjustments. However, our ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the event of a downturn in our operating results and financial performance or unanticipated declines in the value of our asset portfolio, we may be unable to declare or pay quarterly distributions or make distributions to our stockholders. The timing and amount of distributions are in the sole discretion of our board of directors, which considers, among other factors, our earnings, financial condition, debt service obligations and applicable debt covenants, REIT qualification requirements and other tax considerations and capital expenditure requirements as our board may deem relevant from time to time. 26 Although our use of TRSs may be able to partially mitigate the impact of meeting the requirements necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT, our ownership of and relationship with our TRSs will be limited and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT qualification and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS generally may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25% (20% for tax years commencing before January 1, 2009) of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Our TRSs, including GKK Management Co., LLC, GKK Trading Corp., GIT Trading Corp., Whiteface Holdings, LLC and GWF II SPE, LLC will pay U.S. federal, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution to us but will not be required to be distributed to us. We anticipate that the aggregate value of TRS securities owned by us will be less than 25% of the value of our total assets (including such TRS securities). Furthermore, we will monitor the value of our respective investments in our TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the rule that no more than 25% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of TRS securities (which is applied at the end of each calendar quarter). In addition, we will scrutinize all of our transactions with our TRSs for the purpose of ensuring that they are entered into on arm’s-length terms in order to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. The value of the securities that we hold in our TRSs may not be subject to precise valuation. Accordingly, there can be no complete assurance that we will be able to comply with the 25%, limitation discussed above or avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information This report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking expressions such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “project,” “continue,” or any negative or other variations on such expressions. Forward-looking statements include information concerning possible or assumed future results of our operations, including any forecasts, projections, plans and objectives for future operations. Although we believe that our plans, intentions and expectations as reflected in or suggested by those forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that the plans, intentions or expectations will be achieved. We have listed below some important risks, uncertainties and contingencies which could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the forward-looking statements we make in this report. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies include, but are not limited to, the following: •the success or failure of our efforts to implement our current business strategy; •our ability to identify and complete additional property acquisitions and risks of real estate acquisitions; •availability of investment opportunities on real estate assets and real estate-related and other securities; •the performance and financial condition of tenants and corporate customers; •the adequacy of our cash reserves, working capital and other forms of liquidity; •the availability, terms and deployment of short-term and long-term capital; •demand for office and industrial space; •the actions of our competitors and our ability to respond to those actions; •the timing of cash flows from our investments; •the cost and availability of our financings, which depends in part on our asset quality, the nature of our relationships with our lenders and other capital providers, our business prospects and outlook and general market conditions; •the continuity of the management agreement for the KBS portfolio; •economic conditions generally and in the commercial finance and real estate markets and the banking industry specifically; •unanticipated increases in financing and other costs, including a rise in interest rates; •our ability to maintain our current relationships with financial institutions and to establish new relationships with additional financial institutions; •reduction in cash flows received from our investments, in particular our CDOs; •our ability to profitably dispose of non-core assets; •availability of, and ability to retain, qualified personnel and directors; •changes to our management and board of directors; •changes in governmental regulations, tax rates and similar matters; 27 •legislative and regulatory changes (including changes to laws governing the taxation of REITs or the exemptions from registration as an investment company); •environmental and/or safety requirements; •our ability to satisfy complex rules in order for us to qualify as a REIT, for federal income tax purposes and qualify for our exemption under the Investment Company Act, our operating partnership’s ability to satisfy the rules in order for it to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to qualify as REITs and certain of our subsidiaries to qualify as TRSs for federal income tax purposes, and our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to operate effectively within the limitations imposed by these rules; •the continuing threat of terrorist attacks on the national, regional and local economies; and •other factors discussed under Item 1A, “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 and those factors that may be contained in any filing we make with the SEC, including Part II, Item 1A of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. We assume no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. In evaluating forward-looking statements, you should consider these risks and uncertainties, together with the other risks described from time-to-time in our reports and documents which are filed with the SEC, and you should not place undue reliance on those statements. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report may include additional factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING EXHIBITS In reviewing the agreements included as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, please remember they are included to provide you with information regarding their terms and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure information about our company or the other parties to the agreements. The agreements contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement and: •should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk tone of the parties if those statements provide to be inaccurate; •have been qualified by disclosures that were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable agreement, which disclosures are not necessarily reflected in the agreement; •may apply standards of materiality in a way that is different from what may be viewed as material to you or other investors; and •were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement and are subject to more recent developments. Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time. Additional information about our company may be found elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings, which are available without charge through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. See Item 1, “Business — Corporate Governance and Internet Address: Where Readers Can Find Additional Information.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this filing, we do not have any unresolved comments with the staff of the SEC. 