ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may occasionally make forward-looking statements and estimates such as forecasts and projections of our future performance or statements of our plans and objectives. These forward-looking statements may be contained in, among other things, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, press releases made by us and in oral statements made by our officers. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those contained in such forward-looking statements include, among other things, the risks described below. Risks Relating to our Business and the Industry A sustained downturn in the paper industry could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Demand for our products depends primarily on the volume of paper produced on a worldwide basis. The profitability of paper producers has historically been highly cyclical due to wide swings in the price of paper, driven to a high degree by the oversupply of paper during periods when paper producers have more aggregate capacity than the market requires. A sustained downturn in the paper industry, either globally or in a particular region, can cause paper manufacturers to reduce production or cease operations, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Paper producers began in 2000 to take actions that seek to structurally improve the balance between the supply of and demand for paper. As part of these efforts, they have shut down many paper-making machines. Between 2001 and 2004 the bulk of these closures occurred in North America and announcements by paper producers for shutdowns of paper-making machines in North America have continued, although at a reduced level compared to 2001 through 2004. In 2005 and 2006, there was an increase in the number of planned shutdowns of paper-making machines in Europe, although not at the level experienced in recent years in North America. During 2005 and 2006, the sales and profitability of our North American and European operations were adversely affected by these shutdowns. Papermakers continue to experience low levels of profitability, and we believe that further consolidation among papermakers, reducing the number of paper producers, and shutdowns of paper-making machines will occur in Europe and North America until there is a better balance between supply and demand for paper and the profit levels of paper producers improve. We may be required to reorganize our operations in response to changing conditions in the paper industry, and such actions may require significant expenditures and may not be successful. In the past few years, we have undertaken various restructuring measures in response to changing market conditions in the paper industry triggered by the decline in paper prices that began in 2001. For example, between January 1, 2003 and December 31, 2006, we incurred costs of approximately $45.6 million, in addition to $16.5 million for capital expenditures, in connection with our cost reduction programs, including the closure of eight manufacturing facilities worldwide. We may engage in additional cost reduction programs in the future. We may not recoup the costs of programs we have already initiated, or other programs we may decide to engage in the future, the costs of which may be significant. We experienced added operating costs resulting from shifting production from North American closed facilities to other facilities which adversely impacted our cost of sales by approximately $3.5 million and $6.4 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. In the last quarter of 2006, we experienced added operating costs of $1.5 million in a European facility as the final stages of the shift of production from the closed facility were completed. In connection with any future plant closures, delays or failures in the transition of production from a closed facility to our other facilities could also adversely affect our financial operations. In addition, our profitability may decline if our restructuring efforts do not sufficiently reduce our future costs while at the same time positioning us to maintain or increase our sales. We also expect to implement cost reduction programs in 2007 designed to improve our fixed overhead structure. We expect to incur significant restructuring expenses in 2007 in connection with our presently contemplated cost reduction efforts. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Cost Reduction Programs” 10 Table of Contents Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and compliance with our debt covenants. Our foreign operations expose us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and currency devaluations. We report our financial results in U.S. Dollars, but a substantial portion of our sales and expenses are denominated in Euros and other currencies. As a result, changes in the relative values of U.S. Dollars, Euros and these other currencies will affect our levels of revenues and profitability. If the value of the U.S. Dollar increases relative to the value of the Euro and these other currencies, our levels of revenue and profitability will decline since the translation of a certain number of Euros or units of such other currencies into U.S. Dollars for financial reporting purposes will represent fewer U.S. Dollars. In addition, in the case of sales to customers in certain locations, our sales are denominated in U.S. Dollars or Euros but all or a substantial portion of our associated costs are denominated in a different currency. As a result, changes in the relative values of U.S. Dollars, Euros and any such different currency will affect our profitability. Although in certain circumstances we attempt to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, our hedging strategies may not be effective. In addition, our credit facility contains financial covenants that require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. Our ability to comply with these covenants will depend in part upon our reported financial results, which as indicated above are directly affected by currency fluctuations. For example, in the event the value of the U.S. Dollar increases relative to the Euro and other currencies in which we conduct business (and ignoring any other changes affecting our financial performance), the amount of our Adjusted EBITDA will decline. Since each of the financial ratio covenants in our credit facility is calculated by reference to the amount of our Adjusted EBITDA, currency fluctuations alone could lower the amount of our Adjusted EBITDA and therefore affect our ability to remain in compliance with our financial ratio covenants. In addition, we have certain indebtedness denominated in foreign currencies. A decline in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to these other currencies will result in an increase in the reported amount of our indebtedness when the amount of such indebtedness is translated into U.S. Dollars for financial reporting purposes. Since the leverage ratio calculated under our credit facility increases based upon the amount of our reported indebtedness, a decline in the value of the U.S. Dollar may result in our failure to maintain a leverage ratio below the maximum levels provided for in our credit facility. In summary, even if our results of operations meet our expectations when viewed in local currencies, we may not be able to satisfy the financial covenants in our credit facility as a result of currency fluctuations alone. If we are not in compliance with such covenants, we will be in default under or credit facility and will be prohibited by the terms of the credit facility from paying dividends and the lender may call the debt. Our credit facility limits the payment of dividends in a fiscal quarter to a specified percentage of our pre-dividend free cash flow (as defined in our credit facility) for the four fiscal quarters ended immediately prior to such quarter. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Credit Facility.” The amount of our pre-dividend free cash flow depends on the reported amounts of our Adjusted EBITDA and other financial items which may be affected by currency fluctuations. Accordingly, even if currency fluctuations do not result in our failure to satisfy the financial covenants contained in our credit facility, such fluctuations may limit the amount of dividends we are permitted to pay. Dividend payments on our common stock are to be paid in U.S. Dollars. We do not expect to generate sufficient cash flows denominated in U.S. Dollars to make such payments and will therefore rely, in part, on the conversion to U.S. Dollars of cash flows generated in other currencies. The amount of U.S. Dollars received from the conversion of cash flows generated in other currencies will depend on the then-current exchange rates. If the value of the U.S. Dollar increases relative to the value of these other currencies, the cash flows will represent fewer U.S. Dollars. As a result, even if our results of operations meet our expectations in local currencies and we are permitted to pay dividends under our credit facility, we may not have sufficient cash to pay such dividends. For additional information about the risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Foreign Exchange.” 11 Table of Contents Increased price competition in our industry could adversely affect our gross margins and net sales. Historically, we and our competitors have been able to sell clothing and roll covers products and services at favorable prices that reflect the value they deliver to customers. This favorable pricing has been particularly available for our more technologically advanced products, such as forming fabrics, press felts and roll covers. In 2006, the financial health of our customers and continued pricing pressure from our competitors required us to reduce prices in some cases, eliminate or decrease the size of proposed price increases in other cases, resulting in marginal price decreases in both of our business segments. Further pricing pressure from our competitors may require further price decreases or make us unable to effect planned price increases, which adversely affect our profitability. Our industry is competitive and our future success will depend on our ability to effectively develop and market competitive products. The paper-making consumables industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors are larger than us, have greater financial and other resources and are well-established as suppliers to the markets we serve. In addition, some of our competitors also manufacture paper-making machines and have the ability to initially package sales of their clothing and roll cover products with the sale of their machines and/or to tie the warranties on their machines to the use of their clothing and roll cover products. Our products may not be able to compete successfully with the products of our competitors, which could result in a loss of customers and, as a result, decreased sales and profitability. We compete primarily based on the value our products deliver to our customers. Our value proposition is based on a combination of price and the technology and performance of our products, including the ability of our products to help reduce our customers’ production costs and increase the quality of the paper they produce. Our competitors could develop new technology or products that lead to a reduced demand for our products. In addition, our business depends on our customers regularly needing to replace the clothing and roll covers used on their paper-making machines. Either we or our competitors could develop new technologies that increase the useful life of clothing or roll covers, which could reduce the frequency with which our customers would need to replace their clothing and refurbish or replace their roll covers, and consequently lead to fewer sales. Because we have substantial operations outside the United States, we are subject to the economic and political conditions of foreign nations. We have manufacturing facilities in 14 foreign countries. In 2006, we sold products in approximately 63 countries other than the United States, which represented approximately 70% of our net sales. Our foreign operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including risks that: • foreign governments may impose limitations on our ability to repatriate funds; • foreign governments may impose withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to us, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; • an outbreak or escalation of any insurrection or armed conflict may occur; or • foreign governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting our business. The occurrence of any of these conditions could disrupt our business in particular countries or regions of the world, or prevent us from conducting business in particular countries or regions, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, as a holding company we will rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from our subsidiaries to meet our debt obligations and enable us to pay dividends. If foreign governments impose limitations on our ability to repatriate funds or impose or increase taxes on remittances or other payments to us, the amount of dividends and other distributions we receive from our subsidiaries could be reduced, which could reduce the amount of cash available to us to meet our debt obligations and pay dividends. 12 Table of Contents We must continue to innovate and improve our products to maintain our competitive advantage. Our ability to retain our customers and increase our business depends on our ability to continually develop new, technologically superior products. We cannot assure that our investments in technological development will be sufficient, that we will be able to create and market new products or that we will be successful in competing against new technologies developed by competitors. The loss of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Our top ten customers generated 25% of our net sales during 2006. The loss of one or more of our major customers, or a substantial decrease in such customers’ purchases from us, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Because we do not generally have binding long-term purchasing agreements with our customers, there can be no assurance that our existing customers will continue to purchase products from us. We may fail to adequately protect our proprietary technology, which would allow competitors or others to take advantage of our research and development efforts. We rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how, and continuing technological innovation to develop new products and remain competitive. If our competitors learn of our proprietary technology, they may use this information to produce products that are equivalent or superior to our products, which could reduce the sales of our products. Our employees, consultants, and corporate collaborators may breach their obligations not to reveal our confidential information, and any remedies available to us may be insufficient to compensate our damages. Even in the absence of such breaches, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how may otherwise become known to our competitors, or be independently discovered by our competitors, which could adversely affect our competitive position. We may be liable for product defects or other claims relating to our products. Our products could be defective, fail to perform as designed or otherwise cause harm to our customers, their equipment or their products. If any of our products are defective, we may be required to recall the products and/or repair or replace them, which could result in substantial expenses and affect our profitability. Any problems with the performance of our products could harm our reputation, which could result in a loss of sales to customers and/or potential customers. In addition, if our customers believe that they have suffered harm caused by our products, they could bring claims against us that could result in significant liability. A failure of our products could cause substantial damage to a paper-making machine. Any claims brought against us by customers may result in: • diversion of management’s time and attention; • expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, expenses, and payment of damages; • decreased demand for our products and services; and • injury to our reputation. Our insurance may not sufficiently cover a large judgment against us or settlement payment, and is subject to customary deductibles, limits and exclusions. We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under laws protecting the environment and human health. Our operations and facilities are subject to a number of national, state and local laws and regulations protecting the environment and human health in the United States and foreign countries that govern, among other things, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, discharges of pollutants into the air and water and workplace safety. The U.S. federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended (“CERCLA”) provides for responses to, and, in some instances, joint and several liability for 13 Table of Contents releases of, hazardous substances into the environment. Environmental laws also hold current owners or operators of land or businesses liable for their own and for previous owners’ or operators’ releases of hazardous or toxic substances, materials or wastes, pollutants or contaminants, including petroleum and petroleum products. Because of our operations, the history of industrial uses at some of our facilities, the operations of predecessor owners or operators of some of the businesses, and the use and release of hazardous substances at these sites, the liability provisions of environmental laws may affect us. Many of our facilities have experienced some level of regulatory scrutiny in the past and are or may be subject to further regulatory inspections, future requests for investigation or liability for regulated materials management practices. We cannot assure that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with all laws and regulations applicable to us which are designed to protect the environment and human health. We could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and third party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws, relevant common law or the environmental permits required for our operations. We are currently conducting environmental remediation projects at certain of our sites, and we have been identified as a potentially responsible party under CERCLA or similar state requirements for several off-site locations. In 2006 and 2005, we paid $2.5 million and $2.8 million, respectively, in connection with the environmental remediation of certain of our facilities. As of December 31, 2006 we have reserves of $2.3 million to cover anticipated remediation costs of contamination at certain of our facilities. There can be no assurance that actual remediation costs will not exceed such reserves. Adverse labor relations could harm our operations and reduce our profitability. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 3,800 employees, approximately 23% of whom were subject to protection of various collective bargaining agreements and approximately 28% of whom were subject to job protection as members of trade unions, employee associations or workers’ councils. Approximately 47% of the employees subject to collective bargaining agreements (or approximately 11% of our total employees) were covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire prior to December 31, 2007. We cannot be certain that we will be able to renew such collective bargaining agreements, or enter into new collective bargaining agreements, which do not adversely affect our operating results and that we will be without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. In addition, approximately 89% of the employees subject to job protection as members of trade unions, employer associations or workers’ councils (or approximately 44% of our total employees) were subject to arrangements that expire prior to December 31, 2007. We cannot be certain that the terms of employment applicable to such employees will not change in a manner which adversely affects our operating results. We cannot be certain that we will not experience disruptions in our operations as a result of labor disputes or experience other labor relations issues. If we are unable to maintain good relations with our employees, our ability to produce our products and provide services to our customers could be reduced and/or our production costs could increase, either of which could disrupt our business and reduce our profitability. If we acquire other businesses, we may not be able to successfully integrate them into our operations and/or the expected benefits of such acquisitions may not be realized. Our growth strategy may include the acquisition of one or more businesses. For example, in 2006, we acquired Coldwater Covers, Inc. and PMA Shoji Co. Ltd. Any such acquisition involves numerous risks, which may include: • difficulty in assimilating the operations, technologies, products and the key employees of the acquired businesses; • our inability to maintain the existing customers of the acquired business or succeed in selling the products or services of the acquired business to our existing customers; • a diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; 14 Table of Contents • our entry into markets in which competitors have a better established market position than the business we acquire; • the incurrence of significant expenses in completing the acquisitions; and • the assumption of significant liabilities, some of which may be unknown at the time of the acquisition. Our inability to successfully execute any acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Relating to our Capital Structure Shareholders may not receive any dividends. Dividend payments are not guaranteed and are within the absolute discretion of our board of directors. Shareholders may not receive any dividends as a result of any of the following factors: • we are not obligated to pay dividends; • our credit facility limits the amount of dividends we are permitted to pay; • Our board of directors could modify or revoke our dividend policy at any time and for any reason. We expect that our board of directors will reevaluate our dividend policy and the rate at which we pay quarterly dividends on a quarterly basis taking into account such factors as our financial performance, the sufficiency of cash flow from operations to fund dividends, our cash position and cash requirements, growth opportunity and acquisition strategies, competitive or technological developments, the level of participation in our dividend reinvestment plan, credit facility limitations and other contractual restrictions, debt repayment considerations, provisions of applicable law, and other considerations that our board of directors may deem relevant. • even if the dividend policy is not modified or revoked, our board of directors could decide to reduce dividends or not to pay any dividends at all, at any time and for any reason; • the amount of dividends distributed is subject to state law restrictions; • our stockholders have no contractual or other legal right to dividends; • we may not have enough cash to pay dividends due to changes to our operating earnings, working capital requirements, funding of growth initiatives and other anticipated cash needs; and • our foreign subsidiaries may be subject to legal restrictions that prevent them from distributing cash to us to enable the payment of dividends. In February 2007, we adopted a dividend reinvestment plan, and certain entities associated with Apax Europe IV GP Co. Ltd. which collectively owned approximately 52% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2006 have committed to participate in the plan through December 31, 2007 at a level such that at a minimum 50% of each dividend otherwise payable in cash on our common stock, including shares not held by these entities, is reinvested in our common stock through the plan, provided that these entities are not required to reinvest more than 100% of the cash dividends payable to them with respect to such dividend declaration. The participation of these entities and other shareholders in the plan would increase the number of outstanding shares of common stock eligible to participate in future dividends and therefore could increase the cash required to pay cash dividends at a particular rate per share. The reduction or elimination of dividends may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 15 Table of Contents Our credit facility prohibits us from paying dividends in the future if we do not improve our financial performance. Our credit facility restricts our ability to declare and pay dividends on our common stock. We may not pay dividends if a default or event of default under our credit facility has occurred and is continuing or would occur as a consequence of such payment. Our credit facility requires that we meet certain financial ratios in order to avoid a default or event of default under the facility. These covenants, as amended on December 22, 2006, are as follows: • Our interest coverage ratio as of the end of any period set forth below must exceed the ratio set forth for such period: Period Ratio Fiscal quarters ending December 31, 2006 through September 30, 2007 3.50:1 Fiscal quarters ending December 31, 2007 through June 30, 2009 3.75:1 Fiscal quarters ending September 30, 2009 through March 31, 2010 4.00:1 Fiscal quarters ending June 30, 2010 through December 31, 2010 4.25:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2011 and June 30, 2011 4.50:1 Fiscal quarters ending September 30, 2011 through March 31, 2012 4.75:1 • Our leverage ratio as of the end of any period set forth below must not exceed the ratio set forth for such period: Period Ratio Fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2006 through June 30, 2007 4.75:1 Fiscal quarters ending September 30, 2007 and December 31, 2007 4.50:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2008 through September 30, 2008 4.25:1 Fiscal quarters ending December 31, 2008 and March 31, 2009 4.00:1 Fiscal quarters ending June 30, 2009 through December 31, 2009 3.75:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2010 through December 31, 2010 3.50:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2011 through March 31, 2012 3.25:1 • Our fixed charge coverage ratio as of the end of any period set forth below must exceed the ratio set forth for such period: Period Ratio Fiscal quarters ending September 30, 2005 through December 31, 2006 1.75:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2007 through December 31, 2007 1.85:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2008 and thereafter 1.90:1 For the four fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2006 our interest coverage ratio was 3.86:1, our leverage ratio was 4.30:1 and our fixed charge coverage ratio was 2.11:1. Our ability to comply with the financial ratios may be affected by events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions, including unfavorable foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. Dollar and increases in the interest rate on our debt resulting from changes in market interest rates. In addition, the interest rate on our debt increased in December 2006 in connection with an amendment to our credit facility and increased further in 2007 pursuant to that amendment as a result of a downgrade in the rating of our senior indebtedness by Moody’s. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be in compliance with such financial ratios. Because the financial ratios become more restrictive over time, our financial performance will need to improve in subsequent periods in order for us to remain in compliance with the financial ratios in subsequent periods. In particular, in order to be in compliance with the interest coverage ratio in respect of the four fiscal quarters ending December 31, 2006, we will need to generate Adjusted EBITDA during such period that, depending upon factors affecting interest expense in 2007, including changes in market interest rates affecting the unhedged portion of the interest on our senior indebtedness, and the extent to which we utilize our revolving loan, is nearly equal to or in excess of the amount of Adjusted EBITDA we generated in 2006. 16 Table of Contents We expect to incur significant restructuring expenses in 2007 in connection with our presently contemplated cost reduction efforts. Under our credit facility, restructuring expense above specified limits reduce Adjusted EBITDA; see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Liquidity Measures.” To the extent that expenses incurred in 2007 in connection with these efforts exceed actual cost reductions in 2007 by more than the amount that is not considered in calculating Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA in 2007 and our ability to comply with the financial covenants in our credit facility for that period would be negatively affected. Our credit facility also restricts our ability to declare and pay dividends on our common stock as follows: • prior to December 31, 2006 we were permitted to pay dividends in an amount not to exceed $10 million in the aggregate per fiscal quarter; • beginning December 31, 2006, we may pay dividends, not including for purposes of the limitation dividends applied to newly-issued or treasury shares of our common stock pursuant to a dividend reinvestment plan, on each quarterly dividend payment date in 2007 up to an amount that does not exceed 11.25% of our pre-dividend free cash flow (as defined in our credit facility) for the four fiscal quarters ended immediately prior to such dividend payment date. “Pre-dividend free cash flow” is defined in our credit facility as Adjusted EBITDA minus the sum of (i) net interest expense paid in cash, (ii) net cash taxes, (iii) cash capital expenditures (reduced by the amount of any asset sale, insurance or condemnation proceeds which we are permitted to retain in our business, any capital expenditures made with the proceeds of previously generated surplus cash and any capital expenditures used to expand production capacity in Brazil in 2006 (up to $4.6 million), 2007 (up to $8.2 million) and 2008 (up to $3.8 million)) (iv) all scheduled debt repayments, (v) cash restructuring expenses (up to specified amounts per the credit facility) and (vi) cash payments of withholding taxes from proceeds of the repurchase, redemption or retention of our common stock relating to equity incentive awards; and • during the period commencing December 31, 2007 and thereafter, we may pay quarterly dividends, not including for the purposes of the limitation dividends applied to newly-issued or treasury shares of our common stock pursuant to a dividend reinvestment plan, up to an amount that does not exceed 18.75% of our pre-dividend free cash flow for the four fiscal quarters ended immediately prior to such dividend payment date. • we may not pay dividends if a default or event of default under our new credit facility has occurred and is continuing or would occur as a consequence of such payment. We generated $46.3 million of pre-dividend free cash flow for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2006. This level of pre-dividend free cash flow for the four fiscal quarters preceding the quarterly dividend payment dates in 2007 would permit maximum quarterly cash dividend payments (not including dividends applied to newly-issued or treasury shares of our common stock pursuant to a dividend reinvestment plan) of $5.2 million. To the extent that Adjusted EBITDA remains at 2006 levels but expenditures used in calculating pre-dividend free cash flow increase, the maximum permitted quarterly dividend payments would be lower. In particular, we expect capital expenditures to be higher in 2007 than in 2006. The amount of cash required to pay quarterly dividends in 2007 at the $0.225 per share level declared for the March 15, 2007 dividend payment date depends on the number of shares outstanding and the level of participation in our dividend reinvestment plan (or “DRIP”). Approximately $4.9 million of cash would be required to pay the quarterly dividend scheduled for March 15, 2007 at $0.225 per share based upon based upon 43,799,662 shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2006 and an assumed participation rate of 50% in the DRIP. We expect that the number of our shares outstanding will increase as a result of participation in the DRIP. The number of shares of our common stock issued in connection with the DRIP will depend on the dividends declared by us, the level of participation in the DRIP and the trading price of our common stock applied in calculating the shares issued pursuant to the DRIP. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Dividend Policy”. More cash would be required to pay quarterly dividends at the $0.225 per share level in succeeding quarters of 2007 if the number of our shares of common stock outstanding increases and the participation in the DRIP were at the 50% level for each of these dividends. 17 Table of Contents We expect that expenditures used in calculating pre-dividend free cash flow will, in the aggregate, be approximately $13 million greater for 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily as a result of our expectation that expenditures in 2007 for capital investment (not including capital expenditures of $2.0 million spent in 2006 and up to $8.2 million that we expect to spend in 2007, in each case to expand production capacity in Brazil that, subject to compliance with the other provisions of our credit facility, do not reduce pre-dividend free cash flow) will be $13 million higher in 2007 than in 2006. We expect that net interest expense paid in cash, scheduled debt repayments and cash payments of withholding taxes from proceeds of the repurchase, redemption or retention of our common stock relating to equity incentive awards will, in the aggregate, be at a similar level for 2007 as compared to 2006. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Interest Rate Hedging” below for a discussion of the impact of changes in interest rates on our expected interest expense. The amount of our cash income tax costs in 2007 will be largely dependent on the geographies in which our income for 2007 is earned, and therefore if our Adjusted EBITDA for 2007 were at the same level as in 2006, $146.2 million, cash income taxes for 2007 could be higher or lower than in 2006. We also expect to implement cost reduction programs in 2007 designed to improve our fixed overhead structure. We expect to incur significant restructuring expenses in 2007 in connection with our presently contemplated cost reduction efforts. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Cost Reduction Programs”. Pre-dividend free cash flow for 2007 may also be adversely affected by the restructuring expenses described above that we expect to incur in 2007 if these expenses in 2007 exceed the associated savings in 2007. The Apax entities have made no commitment to participate in the DRIP beyond 2007. Assuming no participation in the DRIP in the first quarter of 2008, the amount of cash required to pay a dividend in such quarter at the $0.225 per share level would be $9.9 million plus $225,000 per each additional million shares outstanding above the 43,799,662 shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2006. For example, if we paid quarterly dividends of $0.225 per share each quarter in 2007, the price of our common stock remained at a constant $9.79 per share (the closing price on December 29, 2006) during 2007, the level of participation in the DRIP was 50% for each 2007 quarterly dividend and there were no changes in our outstanding common stock other than as a result of the DRIP, we would have issued approximately 2 million shares pursuant to the DRIP in 2007 and $10.3 million of cash would be required to pay a cash dividend of $0.225 per share in the first quarter of 2008 without any participation in the DRIP in that quarter. Based on our expected expenditures for 2007 that impact pre-dividend free cash flow described above, if our Adjusted EBITDA were at the same level for 2007 as for 2006, our pre-dividend free cash flow for 2007 would be $33.0 million and our credit facility would limit the maximum quarterly cash dividend payment in the first quarter of 2008, assuming no participation in the DRIP for such quarter, to $6.2 million, or approximately $0.14 per share if there were 45.8 million shares of common stock entitled to participate in such dividend. Under our credit facility, capital expenditures financed with the proceeds from certain asset sales and from previously generated surplus cash do not reduce pre-dividend free cash flow. As we evaluate our dividend policy and the rate at which we pay quarterly dividends, we may consider funding a portion of our capital expenditures with all or a portion of the approximately $8.8 million proceeds from asset sales through December 31, 2006 and $3.4 million of previously generated surplus cash available for funding capital expenditures in accordance with the credit facility. Pre-dividend free cash flow (as defined in our credit facility) does not represent the amount we intend to distribute as dividends for any period but rather is a restriction on the maximum level of dividend payments, if any, that we will be permitted to declare and pay under the terms of our credit facility. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Dividend Policy.” 18 Table of Contents We are subject to restrictive debt covenants that limit our business flexibility by imposing operating and financial restrictions on our operations. Our credit facility imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on our operations that may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. These restrictions will prohibit or limit, among other things: • the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the issuance of preferred stock and certain redeemable capital stock; • investments and acquisitions; • disposition of assets and subsidiary interests; • transactions with affiliates; • the creation of liens on our assets; • consolidations, mergers and transfers of all or substantially all of our assets; and • our ability to change the nature of our business. The terms of our credit facility include other restrictive covenants and prohibit us from prepaying our other indebtedness while indebtedness under the credit facility is outstanding. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand downturns in our business or take advantage of business opportunities. Our substantial indebtedness could restrict our ability to pay dividends with respect to shares of our common stock and impact our financing options and liquidity position. We have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2006, our total amount of outstanding debt, on a consolidated basis, was $639.1 million. The degree to which we are leveraged on a consolidated basis could have important consequences to the holders of our common stock, including: • we may not have sufficient funds available to pay dividends on our common stock; • we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; • our ability in the future to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited; • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and be limited in our ability to withstand competitive pressures; and • our leverage may limit our flexibility to plan for and react to changes in our business or strategy. We may be able to incur substantially more debt, which would increase the risks described above associated with our substantial leverage. We may be able to incur a substantial amount of additional indebtedness in the future. The credit facility provides up to $50 million of borrowing under our revolving credit facility, of which $19.8 million was undrawn as of December 31, 2006, and for the incurrence of $20 million of additional indebtedness with respect to capital leases and purchase money obligations, $15 million of general additional indebtedness and certain other additional indebtedness, including, subject to the satisfaction of certain financial ratios on a pro forma basis after giving effect to such incurrence, up to $150 million of subordinated indebtedness incurred in connection with permitted acquisitions. The terms of any agreement under which we incur additional indebtedness could contain limitations on the payment of dividends which are more restrictive than the terms of our credit facility. Any additional indebtedness incurred by us could increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage. 19 Table of Contents We will require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us, to service our debt and to fund our liquidity needs. Our ability to make payments on, refinance or repay our debt, to fund planned capital expenditures or to expand our business will depend largely upon our future operating performance. Our future operating performance is dependent upon our ability to execute our business strategy successfully. Such performance is also subject to general economic, financial and competitive factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our future operating performance will generate sufficient cash to support our cash requirements, or that we will not need to curtail or cease dividend payments, reduce capital expenditures or take other actions designed to conserve our cash in order to make payments required to service our indebtedness. Required payments with respect to our indebtedness and payments pursuant to our dividend policy will reduce the amount of funds available for other corporate purposes, which could harm our competitiveness and/or limit opportunities to grow our business. We expect that a significant portion of the cash generated by our business will be used to make required interest and principal payments under our credit facility. In addition, unless our current dividend policy is changed, we intend to use a substantial portion of the remaining cash generated by our business, in excess of operating needs, reserves for contingencies, capital expenditures, restructuring expenses, tax payments and planned growth investments, to pay dividends on our common stock, which will reduce the amount of funds available for other purposes. As a result: • we will have less funds available to devote to research and development, which could reduce our ability to develop new and innovative technologies and products and ultimately affect our ability to remain competitive; • we will have less funds available for capital expenditures, which could inhibit our ability to invest in new or upgraded production equipment and other capabilities, thereby restricting efforts to improve our manufacturing processes, reduce our operating costs, expand product offerings and/or conduct business in new markets; and • we will have reduced flexibility to finance growth or expansion opportunities, which could limit or cause us to forego future opportunities to grow our business. When our interest rate swap arrangements expire, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our liquidity, operating expenses and results. Our senior credit facility has a variable interest rate. As of December 31, 2006, the outstanding principal amount of the term loan portion of the credit facility was $628.3 million. We entered into interest rate swap contracts effective June 30, 2005 pursuant to which we pay fixed rates on US Dollar notional amounts while receiving the applicable floating LIBOR rates. The interest rate swap contracts effectively fix the interest rate on 89% of the term loan portion of the credit facility through June 30, 2008. As of December 31, 2006, the weighted average interest rate on the effectively fixed portion of the term loan facility was 5.87%; the weighted average interest rate on the portion of the term loan facility not effectively fixed by interest rate swap contracts, based on the 90-day LIBOR, was 6.86%. In February 2007, the applicable margin for LIBOR term loans, LIBOR revolving loan, EURIBOR loans and CDOR loans under our senior credit facility increased from 2.50% to 2.75% as a result of a Moody’s downgrade of its rating of our senior indebtedness. To the extent that we do enter into a hedging arrangement that effectively fixes the interest rate on a portion of our senior debt after these contracts expire, the effectively fixed rate may be significantly higher than the effectively fixed rate in effect at December 31, 2006. If we do not enter into new interest rate hedging arrangements, when these contracts expire the interest rate on all of the debt covered by our senior credit facility will fluctuate based on LIBOR and other variable interest rates. To the extent these interest rates increase, our interest expense will increase, in which event, we may have difficulty making interest payments and funding our other costs and our ability to comply with the financial covenants in our credit facility may be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock has been volatile since our initial public offering and may continue to be volatile. Shares of our common stock may continue to experience substantial price volatility, including significant decreases, in response to a number of events, including: • our quarterly operating results; • sales of our common stock by principal stockholders; • issuances of our common stock by us; • the amount of dividends, if any, that we pay; • future announcements concerning our business; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock and/or changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • actions of competitors; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in U.S. and foreign government regulation; • general market, economic and political conditions; and • natural disasters, terrorist attacks and acts of war. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class action lawsuits filed against them. For example, on June 7, 2006, a purported class action complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts on behalf of a putative class of investors who purchased shares pursuant or traceable to our initial public offering on or about May 16, 2005 through November 15, 2005 against us, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer. See “Legal Proceedings” below. While we believe that the complaint is without merit, this litigation and other lawsuits, should they be filed against us in the future, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2006, entities associated with Apax Europe IV GP Co. Ltd. (“Apax”) own approximately 52% of our common stock and will therefore have significant influence over our business and significant transactions. As of December 31, 2006 there were 43,799,662 shares of our common stock outstanding, of which 22,897,712 in the aggregate, or approximately 52% were held by Apax WW Nominees Ltd. and Apax-Xerium APIA LP. As a result Apax and its associated entities have a strong ability to influence our business, policies and affairs. To the extent these entities continue to own in excess of 50% of our common stock, they will have the ability to control the outcome of all elections of directors and any stockholder vote regarding a merger or other extraordinary transaction. One representative of Apax serves on our seven-member board of directors, although Apax has no contractual rights to nominate any directors. We cannot be certain that the interests of Apax will be consistent with the interests of other holders of common stock. In addition, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, merger or tender offer, which would deprive shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares of common stock and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Moreover, Apax either alone or with other existing equity investors could effectively receive a premium for transferring ownership to third parties that would not inure to the benefit of other investors. 21 Table of Contents We expect to issue additional shares of our common stock through our dividend reinvestment plan (“DRIP”) which would reduce the percentage ownership of our common stock of those shareholders who do not participate in the DRIP. Apax WW Nominees Ltd. and Apax-Xerium APIA LP (the “Apax entities”) have agreed that they will participate in our dividend reinvestment plan (“DRIP”) through December 31, 2007 at a level such that at a minimum 50% of each dividend otherwise payable in cash on our common stock, including shares not held by these entities, is reinvested in our common stock through the DRIP, provided that the Apax entities are not required to reinvest more than 100% of the cash dividends payable to them with respect to such dividend declaration. The participation of the Apax entities and other shareholders in the DRIP would, to the extent other shareholders do not participate in the DRIP, result in the participating shareholders, and in particular the Apax entities, owning an increased percentage of our common stock. We also expect to issue additional shares of our common stock pursuant to equity incentive awards and may issue shares of common stock or preferred stock to raise additional capital, to finance acquisitions or as consideration for acquisitions. These issuances could dilute the value of shareholders’ shares and reduce shareholders’ percentage ownership of common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 