ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing us and there may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently consider not likely to have a significant impact on us. All of these risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND GROWTH STRATEGY Adverse economic and geopolitical conditions and dislocations in the credit markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to stockholders. The global economy is currently experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility in the capital markets, dislocation in the credit markets levels and intense recessionary pressures. These conditions, or similar conditions that may exist in the future, are likely to adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, share price and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Among other potential consequences, the current crisis may materially adversely affect: • our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, or at all, which could reduce our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and refinance existing debt, reduce our returns from our acquisition and development activities and increase our future interest expense; 4 Table of Contents • the financial condition of our tenants and operators, which may result in tenant defaults under leases due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failures or for other reasons; • the values of our properties and our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing collateralized by our properties; and • the value and liquidity of our short-term investments and cash deposits, including as a result of a deterioration of the financial condition of the institutions that hold our cash deposits or the institutions or assets in which we have made short-term investments, the dislocation of the markets for our short-term investments, increased volatility in market rates for such investment or other factors. Limited access to capital may restrict our growth. Our business plan contemplates growth through acquisitions and development of facilities. As a REIT, we are required to make cash distributions, which reduce our ability to fund acquisitions and developments with retained earnings. We are dependent on acquisition financings and access to the capital markets for cash to make investments in new facilities. Due to market or other conditions, such as the current dislocation in the credit markets, we have had and may continue to have limited access to capital from the equity and debt markets. If these conditions persist or worsen, virtually all of our available capital may be required to meet existing commitments and to reduce existing debt as we have significant maturities coming due in 2011 of approximately $360 million (assuming we extend our revolving credit facility due in 2010 for one additional year). We may not be able to obtain additional equity or debt capital or dispose of assets on favorable terms, if at all, at the time we need additional capital to acquire healthcare properties on a competitive basis or to meet our obligations. Our ability to grow through acquisitions and developments will be further limited if we are unable to obtain debt or equity financing, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and may otherwise adversely impact our business operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. As of December 31, 2008, we had $638.4 million of debt outstanding. During 2008, we incurred debt, including $82.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our Operating Partnership’s exchangeable senior notes due 2013, and borrowed under our credit facilities in order to fund the acquisition of 26 healthcare properties. As of March 1, 2009, we had total outstanding indebtedness of approximately $580 million and approximately $74 million available to us for borrowing under our existing revolving credit facilities, and $6.3 million in unfunded commitments. Our indebtedness could have significant effects on our business. For example, it could: • require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, which would reduce the available cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects and other general corporate purposes and reduce cash for distributions; • require payments of principal and interest that may be greater than our cash flow from operations; • force us to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms, to make payments on our debt; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting other business opportunities; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds or dispose of assets. Our future borrowings under our loan facilities may bear interest at variable rates in addition to the approximately $288.0 million in variable interest rate debt that we had outstanding as of December 31, 2008. 5 Table of Contents If interest rates were to increase significantly, our ability to borrow additional funds may be reduced and the risk related to our indebtedness would intensify. We may not be able to refinance or extend our existing debt as our access to capital is affected by prevailing conditions in the financial and capital markets and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we cannot repay, refinance or extend our debt at maturity, in addition to our failure to repay our debt, we may be unable to make distributions to our stockholders at expected levels or at all. In addition, if we are unable to restructure or refinance our obligations, we may default under our obligations. This could trigger cross-default and cross-acceleration rights under then-existing agreements. If we default on our debt obligations, the lenders may foreclose on our properties that collateralize those loans and any other loan that has cross-default provisions. Even if we are able to refinance or extend our existing debt, the terms of any refinancing or extension may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. If the refinancing involves a higher interest rate, it could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our use of debt financing will subject us to significant risks, including refinancing risk and the risk of insufficient cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Most of our current debt is, and we anticipate that much of our future debt will be, non-amortizing and payable in balloon payments. Therefore, we will likely need to refinance at least a portion of that debt as it matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance then-existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of the then-existing debt. If principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or repaid with proceeds from other sources, such as new equity capital or sales of facilities, our cash flow may not be sufficient to repay all maturing debt in years when significant balloon payments come due. Additionally, we may incur significant penalties if we choose to prepay the debt. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $288.0 million in variable interest rate debt ($230 million at March 1, 2009), which constitutes 45% of our overall indebtedness and subjects us to interest rate volatility. We may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements that involve risk, including the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that these arrangements may result in higher interest rates than we would otherwise have. Moreover, no hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Dependence on our tenants for payments of rent and interest may adversely impact our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We expect to continue to qualify as a REIT and, accordingly, as a REIT operating in the healthcare industry, we are not permitted by current tax law to operate or manage the businesses conducted in our facilities. Accordingly, we rely almost exclusively on rent payments from our tenants under leases or interest payments from operators under mortgage loans for cash with which to make distributions to our stockholders. We have no control over the success or failure of these tenants’ businesses. Significant adverse changes in the operations of our facilities, or the financial condition of our tenants, operators or guarantors, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to collect rent and interest payments and, accordingly, on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Facility management by our tenants and their compliance with state and federal healthcare laws could have a material impact on our tenants’ operating and financial condition and, in turn, their ability to pay rent and interest to us. 6 Table of Contents At March 1, 2009, two of our facilities, River Oaks (located in Houston, Texas) and Bucks (located in Bensalem, Pennsylvania) are vacant due to tenant defaults and thus are not generating any revenues for us. We are currently working to re-lease or sale these facilities, but given the current economy no assurances can be made that we will be able to re-lease them in the near future. Our inability to re-lease or sale these facilities will have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. It may be costly to replace defaulting tenants and we may not be able to replace defaulting tenants with suitable replacements on suitable terms. Failure on the part of a tenant to comply materially with the terms of a lease could give us the right to terminate our lease with that tenant, repossess the applicable facility, cross default certain other leases and loans with that tenant and enforce the payment obligations under the lease. The process of terminating a lease with a defaulting tenant and repossessing the applicable facility may be costly and require a disproportionate amount of management’s attention. In addition, defaulting tenants or their affiliates may initiate litigation in connection with a lease termination or repossession against us or our subsidiaries. For example, in connection with our termination of leases relating to the Houston Town and Country Hospital and Medical Office Building in late 2006, we were subsequently named as one of a number of defendants in ongoing lawsuits filed by various affiliates of the defaulting tenant. Resolution of these types of lawsuits in a manner materially adverse to us may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If a tenant-operator defaults and we choose to terminate our lease, we then would be required to find another tenant-operator. The transfer of most types of healthcare facilities is highly regulated, which may result in delays and increased costs in locating a suitable replacement tenant. The sale or lease of these properties to entities other than healthcare operators may be difficult due to the added cost and time of refitting the properties. If we are unable to re-let the properties to healthcare operators, we may be forced to sell the properties at a loss due to the repositioning expenses likely to be incurred by non-healthcare purchasers. Alternatively, we may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the facility to other uses. There can be no assurance that we would be able to find another tenant in a timely fashion, or at all, or that, if another tenant were found, we would be able to enter into a new lease on favorable terms. Defaults by our tenants (such as with the former tenants of our River Oaks and Bucks facilities) under our leases may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our revenues are dependent upon our relationship with, and success of, Prime and Vibra. As of December 31, 2008, our real estate portfolio included 51 healthcare properties in 21 states leased to 14 hospital operating companies; three of the investments are in the form of mortgage loans to two separate operating companies. Affiliates of Prime leased or mortgaged 13 facilities, representing 37.8% of the original total cost of our operating facilities and mortgage loans as of December 31, 2008, and Vibra, leased six of our facilities, representing 10.7% of the original total cost of our operating facilities and mortgage loans as of December 31, 2008. Total revenue from Prime and Vibra, including rent, percentage rent and interest, was approximately $39.1 million and $18.6 million, respectively, or 33.3% and 15.8%, respectively, of total revenue from continuing operations in the year ended December 31, 2008. In 2008, we completed transactions with Prime for approximately $134.5 million. We may pursue additional transactions with Prime or Vibra in the future. Our relationship with Prime and Vibra, and their respective financial performance and resulting ability to satisfy their lease and loan obligations to us are material to our financial results and our ability to service our debt and make distributions to our stockholders. We are dependent upon the ability of Prime and Vibra to make rent and loan payments to us, and their failure or delay to meet these obligations would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Accounting rules may require consolidation of entities to which we have made loans and other adjustments to our financial statements. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued FASB Interpretation No. 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 (“ARB No. 51”),” in January 2003, and a further interpretation in December 2003 (“FIN 46-R”, and collectively “FIN 46”). FIN 46 clarifies the application of ARB No. 51, “Consolidated Financial Statements,” to certain entities in which equity investors do not 7 Table of Contents have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties, referred to as variable interest entities. FIN 46 generally requires consolidation by the party that has a majority of the risk and/or rewards, referred to as the primary beneficiary. Under certain circumstances, generally accepted accounting principles may require us to consolidate certain companies that are thinly capitalized for which we have provided loans. The resulting accounting treatment of certain income and expense items may adversely affect our results of operations, and consolidation of balance sheet amounts may adversely affect any loan covenants. The bankruptcy or insolvency of our tenants under our leases could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. Some of our tenants are, and some of our prospective tenants may be, newly organized, have limited or no operating history and may be dependent on loans from us to acquire the facility’s operations and for initial working capital. Any bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of our tenants could bar us from collecting pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or their property, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from the bankruptcy court. For example, Hospital Partners of America Inc., affiliates of whom leased our Shasta and River Oaks facilities, filed for bankruptcy protection in September 2008. A tenant bankruptcy can be expected to delay our efforts to collect past due balances under our leases and loans, and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. If a lease is assumed by a tenant in bankruptcy, we expect that all pre-bankruptcy balances due under the lease would be paid to us in full. However, if a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. Any secured claims we have against our tenants may only be paid to the extent of the value of the collateral, which may not cover any or all of our losses. Any unsecured claim we hold against a bankrupt entity may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. We may recover none or substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims, which would harm our financial condition. Our business is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete successfully. We compete for development opportunities and opportunities to purchase healthcare facilities with, among others: • private investors; • healthcare providers, including physicians; • other REITs; • real estate partnerships; • financial institutions; and • local developers. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and may have better relationships with lenders and sellers. Competition for healthcare facilities from competitors may adversely affect our ability to acquire or develop healthcare facilities and the prices we pay for those facilities. If we are unable to acquire or develop facilities or if we pay too much for facilities, our revenue and earnings growth and financial return could be materially adversely affected. Certain of our facilities and additional facilities we may acquire or develop will face competition from other nearby facilities that provide services comparable to those offered at our facilities and additional facilities we may acquire or develop. Some of those facilities are owned by governmental agencies and supported by tax revenues, and others are owned by tax-exempt corporations and may be supported to a large extent by endowments and charitable contributions. Those types of support are not available to our facilities and additional facilities we may acquire or develop. In addition, competing healthcare facilities located in the areas served by our facilities and additional facilities we may acquire or develop may provide healthcare services that are not available at our facilities and additional facilities we may acquire or develop. From time to time, referral sources, including physicians and managed care organizations, may change the healthcare facilities to which they refer patients, which could adversely affect our rental revenues. 8 Table of Contents Most of our current tenants have, and prospective tenants may have, an option to purchase the facilities we lease to them which could disrupt our operations. Most of our current tenants have, and some prospective tenants will have, the option to purchase the facilities we lease to them. We cannot assure you that the formulas we have developed for setting the purchase price will yield a fair market value purchase price. Any purchase not at fair market value may present risks of challenge from healthcare regulatory authorities. In the event our tenants and prospective tenants determine to purchase the facilities they lease either during the lease term or after their expiration, the timing of those purchases will be outside of our control and we may not be able to re-invest the capital on as favorable terms, or at all. Our inability to effectively manage the turn-over of our facilities could materially adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and our results of operations. We may not be able to adapt our management and operational systems to manage the net-leased facilities we have acquired and are developing or those that we may acquire or develop in the future without unanticipated disruption or expense. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt our management, administrative, accounting and operational systems, or hire and retain sufficient operational staff, to manage the facilities we have acquired and those that we may acquire or develop. Our failure to successfully manage our current portfolio of facilities or any future acquisitions or developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. RISKS RELATING TO REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS Our real estate and mortgage investments are and will continue to be concentrated in a single industry segment, making us more vulnerable economically than if our investments were more diversified. We have acquired and have developed and have made mortgage investments in and expect to continue acquiring and developing and making mortgage investments in healthcare facilities. We are subject to risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate. The risks resulting from a lack of diversification become even greater as a result of our business strategy to invest solely in healthcare facilities. A downturn in the real estate industry could materially adversely affect the value of our facilities. A downturn in the healthcare industry could negatively affect our tenants’ ability to make lease or loan payments to us and, consequently, our ability to meet debt service obligations or make distributions to our stockholders. These adverse effects could be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments outside of real estate or outside of healthcare facilities. Our facilities may not have efficient alternative uses, which could impede our ability to find replacement tenants in the event of termination or default under our leases. All of the facilities in our current portfolio are and all of the facilities we expect to acquire or develop in the future will be net-leased healthcare facilities. If we or our tenants terminate the leases for these facilities or if these tenants lose their regulatory authority to operate these facilities, we may not be able to locate suitable replacement tenants to lease the facilities for their specialized uses. Alternatively, we may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the facilities to other uses. Any loss of revenues or additional capital expenditures occurring as a result could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could hinder our ability to meet debt service obligations or make distributions to our stockholders. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our facilities and harm our financial condition. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Additionally, the real estate market is affected by many factors beyond our control, including adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions and the availability, costs and terms of financing. Our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our facilities in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. No assurances can be given that we will recognize full 9 Table of Contents value for any facility that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. Our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Development and construction risks could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We have completed development and construction of three facilities which are now in operation. We will develop additional facilities in the future as opportunities present themselves. Our development and related construction activities may subject us to the following risks: • we may have to compete for suitable development sites; • our ability to complete construction is dependent on there being no title, environmental or other legal proceedings arising during construction; • we may be subject to delays due to weather conditions, strikes and other contingencies beyond our control; • we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy healthcare regulatory and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs, delays in construction, or our abandonment of these projects; • we may incur construction costs for a facility which exceed our original estimates due to increased costs for materials or labor or other costs that we did not anticipate; and • we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities. We expect to fund our development projects over time. The time frame required for development and construction of these facilities means that we may have to wait years for a significant cash return. In addition, our tenants may not be able to obtain managed care provider contracts in a timely manner or at all. Because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancings is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund distributions. We cannot assure you that future development projects will occur without delays and cost overruns. Risks associated with our development projects may reduce anticipated rental revenue which could affect the timing of, and our ability to make, distributions to our stockholders. We may be subject to risks arising from future acquisitions of healthcare properties. We may be subject to risks in connection with our acquisition of healthcare properties, including without limitation the following: • we may have no previous business experience with the tenants at the facilities acquired, and we may face difficulties in managing them; • underperformance of the acquired facilities due to various factors, including unfavorable terms and conditions of the existing lease agreements relating to the facilities, disruptions caused by the management of our tenants or changes in economic conditions; • diversion of our management’s attention away from other business concerns; • exposure to any undisclosed or unknown potential liabilities relating to the acquired facilities; and • potential underinsured losses on the acquired facilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage the new properties without encountering difficulties or that any such difficulties will not have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, some of our properties may be acquired through our acquisition of all of the ownership interests of the entity that owns such property. Such an acquisition at the entity level rather than the asset level may expose us to additional risks and liabilities associated with the acquired entity. 10 Table of Contents Our facilities may not achieve expected results or we may be limited in our ability to finance future acquisitions, which may harm our financial condition and operating results and our ability to make the distributions to our stockholders required to maintain our REIT status. Acquisitions and developments entail risks that investments will fail to perform in accordance with expectations and that estimates of the costs of improvements necessary to acquire and develop facilities will prove inaccurate, as well as general investment risks associated with any new real estate investment. We anticipate that future acquisitions and developments will largely be financed through externally generated funds such as borrowings under credit facilities and other secured and unsecured debt financing and from issuances of equity securities. Because we must distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gain, each year to maintain our qualification as a REIT, our ability to rely upon income from operations or cash flow from operations to finance our growth and acquisition activities will be limited. For distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2009, recent Internal Revenue Service guidance allows us to satisfy up to 90% of these requirements through the distribution of shares of our common stock, provided certain conditions are met. Accordingly, if we are unable to obtain funds from borrowings or the capital markets to finance our acquisition and development activities, our ability to grow would likely be curtailed, amounts available for distribution to stockholders could be adversely affected and we could be required to reduce distributions, thereby jeopardizing our ability to maintain our status as a REIT. Newly-developed or newly-renovated facilities may not have operating histories that are helpful in making objective pricing decisions. The purchase prices of these facilities will be based in part upon projections by management as to the expected operating results of the facilities, subjecting us to risks that these facilities may not achieve anticipated operating results or may not achieve these results within anticipated time frames. If we suffer losses that are not covered by insurance or that are in excess of our insurance coverage limits, we could lose investment capital and anticipated profits. Our leases generally require our tenants to carry property, general liability, professional liability, loss of earnings, all risk and extended coverage insurance in amounts sufficient to permit the replacement of the facility in the event of a total loss, subject to applicable deductibles. However, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and acts of terrorism, which may be uninsurable or not insurable at a price we or our tenants can afford. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it impracticable to use insurance proceeds to replace a facility after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the affected facility. If any of these or similar events occur, it may reduce our return from the facility and the value of our investment. Our capital expenditures for facility renovation may be greater than anticipated and may adversely impact rent payments by our tenants and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Facilities, particularly those that consist of older structures, have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including periodic replacement of furniture, fixtures and equipment. Although our leases require our tenants to be primarily responsible for the cost of such expenditures, renovation of facilities involves certain risks, including the possibility of environmental problems, construction cost overruns and delays, uncertainties as to market demand or deterioration in market demand after commencement of renovation and the emergence of unanticipated competition from other facilities. All of these factors could adversely impact rent and loan payments by our tenants, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations along with our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. All of our healthcare facilities are subject to property taxes that may increase in the future and adversely affect our business. Our facilities are subject to real and personal property taxes that may increase as property tax rates change and as the facilities are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. Our leases generally provide that the property taxes are charged to our tenants as an expense related to the facilities that they occupy. As the owner of the facilities, 11 Table of Contents however, we are ultimately responsible for payment of the taxes to the government. If property taxes increase, our tenants may be unable to make the required tax payments, ultimately requiring us to pay the taxes. If we incur these tax liabilities, our ability to make expected distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. As the owner and lessor of real estate, we are subject to risks under environmental laws, the cost of compliance with which and any violation of which could materially adversely affect us. Our operating expenses could be higher than anticipated due to the cost of complying with existing and future environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Various environmental laws may impose liability on a current or prior owner or operator of real property for removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances. Current or prior owners or operators may also be liable for government fines and damages for injuries to persons, natural resources and adjacent property. These environmental laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or disposal of the hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of complying with environmental laws could materially adversely affect amounts available for distribution to our stockholders and could exceed the value of all of our facilities. In addition, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure of our tenants to properly manage, dispose of or remediate such substances, including medical waste generated by physicians and our other healthcare tenants, may adversely affect our tenants or our ability to use, sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, could reduce our revenue and our financing ability. We have obtained Phase I environmental assessments on all facilities we have acquired or developed or on which we have made mortgage loans, and intend to obtain on all future facilities we acquire. However, even if the Phase I environmental assessment reports do not reveal any material environmental contamination, it is possible that material environmental contamination and liabilities may exist of which we are unaware. Although the leases for our facilities and our mortgage loans generally require our operators to comply with laws and regulations governing their operations, including the disposal of medical waste, and to indemnify us for certain environmental liabilities, the scope of their obligations may be limited. We cannot assure you that our tenants would be able to fulfill their indemnification obligations and, therefore, any material violation of environmental laws could have a material adverse affect on us. In addition, environmental and occupational health and safety laws are constantly evolving, and changes in laws, regulations or policies, or changes in interpretations of the foregoing, could create liabilities where none exists today. Our interests in facilities through ground leases expose us to the loss of the facility upon breach or termination of the ground lease and may limit our use of the facility. We have acquired interests in four of our facilities, at least in part, by acquiring leasehold interests in the land on which the facility is located rather than an ownership interest in the property, and we may acquire additional facilities in the future through ground leases. As lessee under ground leases, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination, or an earlier breach by us, of the ground lease. Ground leases may also restrict our use of facilities. Our current ground lease for the facility in San Antonio limits use of the property to operation of a comprehensive rehabilitation hospital, medical research and education and other medical uses and uses reasonably incidental thereto. These restrictions and any similar future restrictions in ground leases will limit our flexibility in renting the facility and may impede our ability to sell the property. Healthcare Regulatory Matters The following discussion describes certain material federal healthcare laws and regulations that may affect our operations and those of our tenants. However, the discussion does not address state healthcare laws and regulations, except as otherwise indicated. These state laws and regulations, like the federal healthcare laws and regulations, could affect our operations or the operations of our tenants. Moreover, the discussion relating to reimbursement for healthcare services addresses matters that are subject to frequent review and revision by Congress and the agencies responsible for administering federal payment programs. Consequently, predicting future reimbursement trends or changes is inherently difficult. Ownership and operation of hospitals and other healthcare facilities are subject, directly and indirectly, to substantial federal, state and local government healthcare laws and regulations. Our tenants’ failure to comply with 12 Table of Contents these laws and regulations could adversely affect their ability to meet their lease obligations. Physician investment in us or in our facilities also will be subject to such laws and regulations. Although we are not a healthcare provider or in a position to influence the referral of patients or ordering of services reimbursable by the federal government, to the extent that a healthcare provider leases space from us and, in turn, subleases space to physicians or other referral sources at less than a fair market value rental rate, the Anti-Kickback Statute and the Stark Law (both discussed below) could be implicated. Our leases require the lessees to agree to comply with all applicable laws. We intend for all of our business activities and operations to conform in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations. Applicable Laws Anti-Kickback Statute. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute (codified at 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b(b)) prohibits, among other things, the offer, payment, solicitation or acceptance of remuneration directly or indirectly in return for referring an individual to a provider of services for which payment may be made in whole or in part under a federal healthcare program, including the Medicare or Medicaid programs. Violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute is a crime, punishable by fines of up to $25,000 per violation, five years imprisonment, or both. Violations may also result in civil sanctions, including civil penalties of up to $50,000 per violation, exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, and additional monetary penalties in amounts treble to the underlying remuneration. The Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, or OIG, has issued “Safe Harbor Regulations” that describe practices that will not be considered violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute. Nevertheless, the fact that a particular arrangement does not meet safe harbor requirements does not mean that the arrangement violates the Anti-Kickback Statute. Rather, the safe harbor regulations simply provide a guaranty that qualifying arrangements will not be prosecuted under the Anti-Kickback Statute. We intend to use commercially reasonable efforts to structure lease arrangements involving facilities in which local physicians are investors and tenants so as to satisfy, or meet as closely as possible, safe harbor conditions. We cannot assure you, however, that we will meet all the conditions for the safe harbor. Federal Physician Self-Referral Statute (“Stark Law”). Any physicians investing in our company or its subsidiary entities could also be subject to the Ethics in Patient Referrals Act of 1989, or the Stark Law (codified at 42 U.S.C. § 1395nn). Unless subject to an exception, the Stark Law prohibits a physician from making a referral to an “entity” furnishing “designated health services,” including inpatient and outpatient hospital services, clinical laboratory services and radiology services, paid by Medicare or Medicaid if the physician or a member of his immediate family has a “financial relationship” with that entity. A reciprocal prohibition bars the entity from billing Medicare or Medicaid for any services furnished pursuant to a prohibited referral. Sanctions for violating the Stark Law include denial of payment, refunding amounts received for services provided pursuant to prohibited referrals, civil monetary penalties of up to $15,000 per prohibited service provided, and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The statute also provides for a penalty of up to $100,000 for a circumvention scheme. There are exceptions to the self-referral prohibition for many of the customary financial arrangements between physicians and providers, including employment contracts, leases and recruitment agreements. There is also an exception for a physician’s ownership interest in an entire hospital, as opposed to an ownership interest in a hospital department. Unlike safe harbors under the Anti-Kickback Statute, an arrangement must comply with every requirement of a Stark Law exception or the arrangement is in violation of the Stark Law. CMS has issued multiple phases of final regulations implementing the Stark Law. CMS continues to make changes to these regulations. While these regulations help clarify the exceptions to the Stark Law, it is unclear how the government will interpret many of these exceptions for enforcement purposes. Although our lease agreements require lessees to comply with the Stark Law, we cannot offer assurance that the arrangements entered into by us and our facilities will be found to be in compliance with the Stark Law, as it ultimately may be implemented or interpreted. The False Claims Act. The federal False Claims Act prohibits the making or presenting of any false claim for payment to the federal government; it is the civil equivalent to federal criminal provisions prohibiting the submission of false claims to federally funded programs. Additionally, qui tam, or whistleblower, provisions of 13 Table of Contents the federal False Claims Act allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. Whistleblowers may collect a portion of the government’s recovery — an incentive which increases the frequency of such actions. A successful False Claims Act case may result in a penalty of three times actual damages, plus additional civil penalties payable to the government, plus reimbursement of the fees of counsel for the whistleblower. Many states have enacted similar statutes preventing the presentation of a false claim to a state government, and we expect more to do so because the Social Security Act provides a financial incentive for states to enact statutes establishing state level liability. The Civil Monetary Penalties Law. The Civil Monetary Penalties law prohibits the knowing presentation of a claim for certain healthcare services that is false or fraudulent. The penalties include a monetary civil penalty of up to $10,000 for each item or service, $15,000 for each individual with respect to whom false or misleading information was given, as well as treble damages for the total amount of remuneration claimed. HIPAA Administrative Simplification and Privacy Requirements. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) requires the use of uniform electronic data transmission standards for certain healthcare claims and payment transactions submitted or received electronically. Compliance with these regulations is mandatory for the tenant-operators of our facilities. HIPAA standards are intended to protect the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information. In addition, HIPAA requires that each provider receive, and by May 23, 2008 exclusively use, a National Provider Identifier. We believe that the cost of compliance with these regulations has not had and is not expected to have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Licensure. Certain healthcare facilities in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations. Further, various licenses and permits are required to dispense narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials and operate equipment. Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of licensure, certification or accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state healthcare programs. EMTALA. All of our hospitals that provide emergency care are subject to the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act (“EMTALA”). This federal law requires such facilities to conduct an appropriate medical screening examination of every individual who presents to the hospital’s emergency room for treatment and, if the individual is suffering from an emergency medical condition, to either stabilize the condition or make an appropriate transfer of the individual to a facility able to handle the condition. The obligation to screen and stabilize emergency medical conditions exists regardless of an individual’s ability to pay for treatment. There are severe penalties under EMTALA if a hospital fails to screen or appropriately stabilize or transfer an individual or if the hospital delays appropriate treatment in order to first inquire about the individual’s ability to pay. Penalties for violations of EMTALA include civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare program. In addition, an injured individual, the individual’s family or a medical facility that suffers a financial loss as a direct result of a hospital’s violation of the law can bring a civil suit against the hospital. Our lease agreements require lessees to comply with EMTALA, and we believe our tenant-operators conduct business in substantial compliance with EMTALA. Antitrust Laws. The federal government and most states have enacted antitrust laws that prohibit certain types of conduct deemed to be anti-competitive. These laws prohibit price fixing, concerted refusal to deal, market monopolization, price discrimination, tying arrangements, acquisitions of competitors and other practices that have, or may have, an adverse effect on competition. Violations of federal or state antitrust laws can result in various sanctions, including criminal and civil penalties. Antitrust enforcement in the healthcare industry is currently a priority of the Federal Trade Commission. We believe we are in compliance with such federal and state laws, but future review of our practices by courts or regulatory authorities could result in a determination that could adversely affect our operations, or the operations of our tenants. Healthcare Industry Investigations. Significant media and public attention has focused in recent years on the hospital industry. While we are currently not aware of any material investigations of our facilities under federal or state healthcare laws or regulations, it is possible that governmental entities could initiate investigations or litigation in the future and that such matters could result in significant penalties, as well as adverse publicity. It is also possible 14 Table of Contents that our executives and managers could be included in governmental investigations or litigation or named as defendants in private litigation. Regulatory and Legislative Developments. Healthcare continues to attract intense legislative and public interest particularly with the election of our new U.S. President and shift of power in Congress to the democratic party. Recently, various legislative proposals have been introduced or proposed both in Congress and in state legislatures that would have a significant impact on the healthcare system. Many states have enacted, or are considering enacting, measures designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures and change private healthcare insurance. Hospital operating margins may continue to be under significant pressure due to the deterioration in pricing flexibility and payer mix, as well as increases in operating expenses that exceed increases in payments under the Medicare program. In addition, federal and state regulating bodies may adopt yet further prohibitions on the types of contractual arrangements between physicians and the healthcare providers to which they refer. More importantly, restrictions on admissions to inpatient rehabilitation facilities and long-term acute care hospitals may continue. Finally, other initiatives include pay-for-performance and other quality-based payment systems; efforts to establish universal healthcare coverage, patient and drug safety, and pharmaceutical drug pricing; and compliance activities under Medicare Part D. We cannot predict whether any such proposals or initiatives will be adopted, or if adopted, whether our business or that of our tenants will be adversely impacted. RISKS RELATING TO THE HEALTHCARE INDUSTRY Reductions in reimbursement from third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, could adversely affect the profitability of our tenants and hinder their ability to make rent payments to us. Sources of revenue for our tenants and operators may include the Medicare and Medicaid programs, private insurance carriers and health maintenance organizations, among others. Efforts by such payors to reduce healthcare costs will likely continue, which may result in reductions or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants. In addition, the failure of any of our tenants to comply with various laws and regulations could jeopardize their ability to continue participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored payment programs. The healthcare industry continues to face various challenges, including increased government and private payor pressure on healthcare providers to control or reduce costs. We believe that our tenants will continue to experience a shift in payor mix away from fee-for-service payors, resulting in an increase in the percentage of revenues attributable to managed care payors, government payors and general industry trends that include pressures to control healthcare costs. Pressures to control healthcare costs and a shift away from traditional health insurance reimbursement have resulted in an increase in the number of patients whose healthcare coverage is provided under managed care plans, such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations. In addition, due to the aging of the population and the expansion of governmental payor programs, we anticipate that there will be a marked increase in the number of patients relying on healthcare coverage provided by governmental payors. These changes could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of some or all of our tenants, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Over the past several years, CMS has increased its attention on reimbursement for long term acute care hospitals, or LTACHs, and inpatient rehabilitation facilities, or IRFs. CMS has imposed regulatory restrictions on LTACH and IRF reimbursement. A significant number of our tenants operate LTACHs and IRFs. We expect that CMS will continue to explore implementing other restrictions on LTACH and IRF reimbursement, and possibly develop more restrictive facility and patient level criteria for these types of facilities. These changes could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of some of our tenants, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 15 Table of Contents The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and existing and new laws or regulations, changes to existing laws or regulations, loss of licensure or certification or failure to obtain licensure or certification could result in the inability of our tenants to make lease payments to us. The healthcare industry is highly regulated by federal, state and local laws, and is directly affected by federal conditions of participation, state licensing requirements, facility inspections, state and federal reimbursement policies, regulations concerning capital and other expenditures, certification requirements and other such laws, regulations and rules. In addition, establishment of healthcare facilities and transfers of operations of healthcare facilities are subject to regulatory approvals not required for establishment, or transfers, of other types of commercial operations and real estate. Sanctions for failure to comply with these regulations and laws include, but are not limited to, loss of or inability to obtain licensure, fines and loss of or inability to obtain certification to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as potential criminal penalties. The failure of any tenant to comply with such laws, requirements and regulations could affect its ability to establish or continue its operation of the facility or facilities and could adversely affect the tenant’s ability to make lease payments to us which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, restrictions and delays in transferring the operations of healthcare facilities, in obtaining new third-party payor contracts, including Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements, and in receiving licensure and certification approval from appropriate state and federal agencies by new tenants, may affect our ability to terminate lease agreements, remove tenants that violate lease terms, and replace existing tenants with new tenants. Furthermore, these matters may affect a new tenant’s ability to obtain reimbursement for services rendered, which could adversely affect their ability to pay rent to us and to pay principal and interest on their loans from us. Our tenants are subject to fraud and abuse laws, the violation of which by a tenant may jeopardize the tenant’s ability to make lease and loan payments to us. As noted earlier, the federal government and numerous state governments have passed laws and regulations that attempt to eliminate healthcare fraud and abuse by prohibiting business arrangements that induce patient referrals or the ordering of specific ancillary services. Violations of these laws may result in the imposition of criminal and civil penalties, including possible exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs. Imposition of any of these penalties upon any of our tenants could jeopardize any tenant’s ability to operate a facility or to make lease and loan payments, thereby potentially adversely affecting us. In the past several years, federal and state governments have significantly increased investigation and enforcement activity to detect and eliminate fraud and abuse in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. It is anticipated that the trend toward increased investigation and enforcement activity in the areas of fraud and abuse and patient self-referrals, will continue in future years and could adversely affect our tenants and their operations, and in turn their ability to make lease and loan payments to us. Some of our tenant-operators have accepted, and prospective tenants may accept, an assignment of the previous operator’s Medicare provider agreement. Such operators and other new-operator tenants that take assignment of Medicare provider agreements might be subject to federal or state regulatory, civil and criminal investigations of the previous owner’s operations and claims submissions. While we conduct due diligence in connection with the acquisition of such facilities, these types of issues may not be discovered prior to purchase. Adverse decisions, fines or recoupments might negatively impact our tenants’ financial condition, and in turn their ability to make lease and loan payments to us. Certain of our lease arrangements may be subject to fraud and abuse or physician self-referral laws. Local physician investment in our operating partnership or our subsidiaries that own our facilities could subject our lease arrangements to scrutiny under fraud and abuse and physician self-referral laws. Under the Stark Law, and its implementing regulations, if our lease arrangements do not satisfy the requirements of an applicable exception, the ability of our tenants to bill for services provided to Medicare beneficiaries pursuant to referrals from physician investors could be adversely impacted and subject us and our tenants to fines, which could impact our tenants’ ability to make lease and loan payments to us. 16 Table of Contents We intend to use our good faith efforts to structure our lease arrangements to comply with these laws; however, if we are unable to do so, this failure may restrict our ability to permit physician investment or, where such physicians do participate, may restrict the types of lease arrangements into which we may enter, including our ability to enter into percentage rent arrangements. State certificate of need laws may adversely affect our development of facilities and the operations of our tenants. Certain healthcare facilities in which we invest may also be subject to state laws which require regulatory approval in the form of a certificate of need prior to initiation of certain projects, including, but not limited to, the establishment of new or replacement facilities, the addition of beds, the addition or expansion of services and certain capital expenditures. State certificate of need laws are not uniform throughout the United States and are subject to change. We cannot predict the impact of state certificate of need laws on our development of facilities or the operations of our tenants. In addition, certificate of need laws often materially impact the ability of competitors to enter into the marketplace of our facilities. Finally, in limited circumstances, loss of state licensure or certification or closure of a facility could ultimately result in loss of authority to operate the facility and require re-licensure or new certificate of need authorization to re-institute operations. As a result, a portion of the value of the facility may be related to the limitation on new competitors. In the event of a change in the certificate of need laws, this value may markedly decrease. RISKS RELATING TO OUR ORGANIZATION AND STRUCTURE Maryland law and Medical Properties’ charter and bylaws contain provisions which may prevent or deter changes in management and third-party acquisition proposals that you may believe to be in your best interest, depress the price of Medical Properties common stock or cause dilution. Medical Properties’ charter contains ownership limitations that may restrict business combination opportunities, inhibit change of control transactions and reduce the value of Medical Properties’ common stock. To qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, no more than 50% in value of Medical Properties’ outstanding stock, after taking into account options to acquire stock, may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer persons during the last half of each taxable year. Medical Properties’ charter generally prohibits direct or indirect ownership by any person of more than 9.8% in value or in number, whichever is more restrictive, of outstanding shares of any class or series of our securities, including Medical Properties’ common stock. Generally, Medical Properties’ common stock owned by affiliated owners will be aggregated for purposes of the ownership limitation. The ownership limitation could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or other transaction in which holders of common stock might receive a premium for their common stock over the then-current market price or which such holders otherwise might believe to be in their best interests. The ownership limitation provisions also may make Medical Properties’ common stock an unsuitable investment vehicle for any person seeking to obtain, either alone or with others as a group, ownership of more than 9.8% of either the value or number of the outstanding shares of Medical Properties’ common stock. Medical Properties’ charter and bylaws contain provisions that may impede third-party acquisition proposals that may be in the best interests of our stockholders. Medical Properties’ charter and bylaws also provide that our directors may only be removed by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of Medical Properties common stock, that stockholders are required to give us advance notice of director nominations and new business to be conducted at our annual meetings of stockholders and that special meetings of stockholders can only be called by our president, our board of directors or the holders of at least 25% of stock entitled to vote at the meetings. These and other charter and bylaw provisions may delay or prevent a change of control or other transaction in which holders of Medical Properties’ common stock might receive a premium for their common stock over the then-current market price or which such holders otherwise might believe to be in their best interests. 17 Table of Contents We depend on key personnel, the loss of any one of whom may threaten our ability to operate our business successfully. We depend on the services of Edward K. Aldag, Jr., R. Steven Hamner, Emmett E. McLean, and Michael G. Stewart to carry out our business and investment strategy. If we were to lose any of these executive officers, it may be more difficult for us to locate attractive acquisition targets, complete our acquisitions and manage the facilities that we have acquired or developed. Additionally, as we expand, we will continue to need to attract and retain additional qualified officers and employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our UPREIT structure may result in conflicts of interest between Medical Properties’ stockholders and the holders of our operating partnership units. We are organized as an UPREIT, which means that we hold our assets and conduct substantially all of our operations through an operating limited partnership, and may issue operating partnership units to third parties. Persons holding operating partnership units would have the right to vote on certain amendments to the partnership agreement of our operating partnership, as well as on certain other matters. Persons holding these voting rights may exercise them in a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders. Circumstances may arise in the future, such as the sale or refinancing of one of our facilities, when the interests of limited partners in our operating partnership conflict with the interests of our stockholders. As the sole member of the general partner of the operating partnership, Medical Properties has fiduciary duties to the limited partners of the operating partnership that may conflict with fiduciary duties Medical Properties’ officers and directors owe to its stockholders. These conflicts may result in decisions that are not in the best interest of our stockholders. TAX RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR STATUS AS A REIT Loss of our tax status as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of Medical Properties’ common stock. We believe that we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the federal income tax laws commencing with our taxable year that began on April 6, 2004 and ended on December 31, 2004. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will be successful in operating so as to qualify as a REIT. At any time, new laws, regulations, interpretations or court decisions may change the federal tax laws relating to, or the federal income tax consequences of, qualification as a REIT. It is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our board of directors to revoke the REIT election, which it may do without stockholder approval. If we lose or revoke our REIT status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for distribution because: • we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; therefore we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates and we might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay any such tax; • we also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify. As a result of all these factors, a failure to achieve or a loss or revocation of our REIT status could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. 18 Table of Contents Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax. In order to qualify as a REIT, each year we must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any year are less than the sum of (1) 85% of our ordinary income for that year; (2) 95% of our capital gain net income for that year; and (3) 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Differences in timing between the recognition of income and the related cash receipts or the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow money or sell assets to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. In the future, we may borrow to pay distributions to our stockholders and the limited partners of our operating partnership. Any funds that we borrow would subject us to interest rate and other market risks. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego attractive business or investment opportunities. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of our assets may consist of securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries, and no more than 25% of the value of our assets may consist of securities that are not qualifying assets under the test requiring that 75% of a REIT’s assets consist of real estate and other related assets. Further, a taxable REIT subsidiary may not directly or indirectly operate or manage a healthcare facility. For purposes of this definition a “healthcare facility” means a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility which extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients and which is operated by a service provider that is eligible for participation in the Medicare program under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act with respect to the facility. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may limit our flexibility in executing our business plan. Loans to our tenants could be recharacterized as equity, in which case our interest income from that tenant might not be qualifying income under the REIT rules and we could lose our REIT status. In connection with the acquisition in 2004 of certain Vibra facilities, our taxable REIT subsidiary made a loan to Vibra in an aggregate amount of approximately $41.4 million to acquire the operations at those Vibra Facilities. As of March 1, 2009, that loan had been reduced to approximately $21.0 million. Our taxable REIT subsidiary also made a loan of approximately $6.2 million to Vibra and its subsidiaries for working capital purposes, which has been paid in full. The acquisition loan bears interest at an annual rate of 10.25%. Our operating partnership loaned the funds to our taxable REIT subsidiary to make these loans. The loan from our operating partnership to our taxable REIT subsidiary bears interest at an annual rate of 9.25%. Our taxable REIT subsidiary has made and will make loans to tenants to acquire operations or for other purposes. The Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, may take the position that certain loans to tenants should be treated as equity interests rather than debt, and that our interest income from such tenant should not be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. If the IRS were to successfully treat a loan to a particular tenant as equity interests, the tenant would be a “related party tenant” with respect to our company and the interest that we receive from the tenant would not be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. As a result, we could lose our REIT status. In addition, if the IRS were to successfully treat a particular loan as interests held by our operating partnership rather than by our taxable REIT subsidiary, we could fail the 5% asset test, and if the IRS further successfully treated the loan as other than straight debt, we could fail the 10% asset test with respect to such interest. As a result of the failure of either test, could lose our REIT status, which would subject us to corporate level income tax and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 19 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares at or above your purchase price. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or distributions; • changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates or publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry; • increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our shares of common stock to demand a higher yield; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • actions by institutional stockholders; • local conditions such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, rehabilitation hospitals, long-term acute care hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, medical office buildings, specialty hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, regional and community hospitals, women’s and children’s hospitals and other single-discipline facilities; • speculation in the press or investment community; and • general market and economic conditions. Future sales of common stock may have adverse effects on our stock price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of common stock, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We may issue from time to time additional common stock or units of our operating partnership in connection with the acquisition of facilities and we may grant additional demand or piggyback registration rights in connection with these issuances. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock or the perception that these sales could occur may adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through a sale of additional equity securities. An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our securities is our distribution rate as a percentage of our price per share of common stock, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may desire a higher distribution or interest rate on our securities or seek securities paying higher distributions or interest. The market price of our common stock likely will be based primarily on the earnings that we derive from rental income with respect to our facilities and our related distributions to stockholders, and not from the underlying appraised value of the facilities themselves. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions can affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on our variable-rate debt, thereby adversely affecting cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and make distributions. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 Table of Contents 