ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Management and Our Relationship with SL Green We are dependent on our Manager and its key employees and may not find a suitable replacement if the Manager terminates the management agreement or the key personnel are no longer available to us. We have no direct employees. We may, however, hire employees as a result of the American Financial merger. We are completely reliant on our Manager, which has significant discretion as to the implementation of our operating policies and strategies. We have entered into a management agreement with our Manager that terminates in December 2009, subject to automatic, one-year renewals. We are subject to the risk that our Manager will terminate the management agreement and that no suitable replacement will be found to manage us. We believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon the experience of our Manager's executive officers, whose continued service is not guaranteed. If our Manager terminates the management agreement, or if any of its key employees cease to work for our Manager, we may not be able to execute our business plan. 20 There are conflicts of interest in our relationship with the Manager, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interest of holders of our securities. We are subject to potential conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship with SL Green and our Manager. Several of SL Green's executive officers are also directors and executive officers of the Manager and us. Specifically, our chairman and each of our executive officers also serve as officers of our Manager or SL Green. As a result, the management agreement was not negotiated at arm's-length and its terms, including fees payable, may not be as favorable to us as if it had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. In addition, our Manager and our executives may have conflicts between their duties to us and their duties to, and interests in, SL Green and/or our Manager. Our Manager is not required to devote a specific amount of time to our operations. There may also be conflicts in allocating investments which are suitable both for us and SL Green. SL Green has agreed generally that it will not acquire fixed income or preferred equity investments during the term of the management agreement. However, there are several exceptions, including debt instruments with equity characteristics, distressed debt and refinancings of existing SL Green debt investments. As a result, SL Green may compete with us with respect to certain investments which we may want to acquire, and as a result we may either not be presented with the opportunity or have to compete with SL Green to acquire these investments. Our Manager and our executive officers may choose to allocate favorable investments to SL Green instead of to us. We pay our Manager substantial base management fees regardless of the performance of our portfolio. SL Green, the Manager and certain other parties, including certain of our officers, also own Class B limited partner interests in our operating partnership, which entitles them to receive quarterly distributions based on financial performance. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, this may lead our Manager to place emphasis on the maximization of revenues at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative. This could result in increased risk to the value of our invested portfolio. Termination of or failure to renew the management agreement without cause requires us to pay substantial amounts of termination fees and redeem the Class B limited partner interests. If the management agreement is terminated or not renewed other than for cause, we will be required to pay a termination fee equal to two times the higher of the total annual fees paid in either of the two calendar years prior to the termination, unless we become self-managed, in which event this amount will be reduced by 50%. We are also required to redeem the Class B limited partner interests upon termination of the management agreement. These provisions may increase the effective cost to us of terminating or failing to renew the management agreement, thereby adversely affecting our ability to terminate or not renew the management agreement without cause. Our assets that we acquire by foreclosure or by similar conveyance may be subject to purchase rights or rights of first offer in favor of SL Green, which could reduce their marketability or value. Pursuant to our origination agreement with SL Green, we have granted SL Green purchase rights with respect to certain of our assets. When we acquire a direct or indirect ownership interest in real property or interests in real property located in metropolitan New York or Washington, D.C. by foreclosure or similar conveyance or transfer, SL Green has the right to purchase such ownership interest at a price equal to the sum of (i) our unpaid principal balance on the date we foreclosed on or acquired the asset, (ii) interest through the date of SL Green's purchase and (iii) legal costs incurred by us directly related to the conveyance of the property and the exit fee due upon prepayment or repayment, both to the extent payable by the borrower under the initial loan documentation. We refer to this amount as the "par value". If we seek to sell the asset and receive a bona fide offer to acquire 21 the asset for cash that we desire to accept, SL Green may purchase the asset at the lower of the par value and the third party's offer price. Similarly, our agreements with SL Green in connection with our commercial property investments in 55 Corporate Drive, 885 Third Avenue, and Two Herald Square, contain a buy-sell provision that can be triggered by us in the event we and SL Green are unable to agree upon a major decision that would materially impair the value of the assets. Such major decisions involve the sale or refinancing of the assets, any extensions or modifications to the net leases with the tenant therein or any material capital expenditures. These rights may make it more difficult to sell such assets because third parties may not want to incur the expense and effort to bid on assets when they perceive that SL Green may acquire them at the lower of the same terms proposed by the third party or par value. As a result, we may not receive the same value on the sale of such assets as we might receive from an independent third party submitting an offer through a competitive bidding process. Our financial condition and results of operations depend on our ability to manage future growth effectively. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our ability to grow, which depends, in turn, on our Manager's ability to identify and invest in debt investments or other securities that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our Manager's structuring of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us and our access to financing on acceptable terms. The senior management team of our Manager has substantial responsibilities under the management agreement. We can offer no assurance that the senior management team of our Manager or any of the other employees of our Manager will contribute to our growth. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our board of directors has approved very broad investment guidelines for the Manager and does not approve each investment decision made by the Manager. Our Manager is authorized to follow very broad investment guidelines. Our directors review our investment guidelines and our investment portfolio annually and as often as they deem necessary. However, our board of directors does not review each proposed investment. The investment committee of our board of directors must unanimously approve all transactions involving investments of (i) $50 million or more with respect to CMBS investments, (ii) $35 million or more with respect to whole loans, (iii) $30 million or more with respect to subordinate interests in whole loans, and (iv) $20 million or over with respect to mezzanine loans, preferred equity, and CTL investments. The full board of directors must approve investments (i) over $75 million with respect to whole loans and CMBS investments, (ii) over $65 million with respect to subordinate interests in whole loans, (iii) over $55 million with respect to mezzanine loans, and (iv) over $50 million with respect to preferred equity and CTL investments. Our Manager has full discretion to make investments on our behalf under (i) $50 million with respect to CMBS investments, (ii) $35 million with respect to whole loans, (iii) $30 million with respect to subordinate interests in whole loans, and (iv) $20 million with respect to mezzanine loans, preferred equity and CTL investments. Our chief investment officer may approve investments of less than $3 million. Approval limits are based on the investment amount less any origination fees, discounts or other up-front fees we receive in connection with the investment. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, the directors rely primarily on information provided to them by our Manager. Our Manager has great latitude within the broad parameters of our investment guidelines in determining the types of assets it may decide are proper investments for us. Decisions made and investments entered into by our Manager may not fully reflect the stockholder's best interests. 22 We may change our investment and operational policies without stockholder consent. We may change our investment and operational policies, including our policies with respect to investments, acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the types of investments described in this filing. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations, all of which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions. Risks Related to Our Business Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exclusions and exemptions imposes limits on our operations. We believe that there are a number of exclusions and exemptions under the Investment Company Act that may be applicable to us and we have conducted and intend to continue to conduct our operations so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We will either be excluded from the definition of investment company under Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act, by owning or proposing to acquire "investment securities" having a value not exceeding 40% of the value of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. Government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis, or exempted by qualifying for the exemptions from registration provided by Sections 3(c)(5)(C) and/or 3(c)(6) of the Investment Company Act. For example, Section 3(c)(5)(C) exempts from the definition of "investment company" any person who is "primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate." Additionally, Section 3(c)(6) exempts from the definition of "investment company" any company primarily engaged, directly or through majority-owned subsidiaries, in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate. The assets that we have acquired and may acquire in the future, therefore, are limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the exclusions and exemptions on which we rely. In addition, we could, among other things, be required either (a) to change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (b) to register as an investment company, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business and our ability to pay dividends. To maintain our qualification for an exclusion from registration under the Investment Company Act pursuant to Section 3(c)(5)(C) and 3(c)(6)at least 55% of our portfolio, or the assets of our majority-owned subsidiaries, must be comprised of qualifying assets under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, and 80% of our portfolio, or the assets of our majority-owned subsidiaries, must be comprised of qualifying assets and real estate-related assets under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act. In addition, we may not issue redeemable securities. To comply with the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exemption, we may from time to time buy RMBS and other qualifying assets. We generally expect that mortgage loans, whole pool CMBS, CTL investments, certain distressed debt securities and Tier 1 mezzanine loans to be qualifying assets under the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exemption from the Investment Company Act. Tier 1 mezzanine loans are loans granted to a mezzanine borrower that directly owns interests in the entity that owns the property being financed. The treatment of distressed debt securities as qualifying assets is, and will be, based on the characteristics of the particular type of loan, including its foreclosure rights. Junior (first loss) interests in CMBS pools may constitute qualifying assets under Section 3(c)(5)(C) provided that we have the unilateral right to foreclose, directly or indirectly, on the mortgages in the pool and that we may act as the controlling class or directing holder of the pool. Similarly, subordinate interests in whole loans may constitute qualifying assets under Section 3(c)(5)(C) provided that we have the unilateral right to foreclose, directly or indirectly, on the mortgage and that we may act as the controlling class or directing holder of the note. We generally do not treat non-Tier 1 mezzanine loans and preferred equity investments as qualifying assets. Although we monitor our portfolio periodically and prior to each origination or 23 acquisition of a new asset or disposition of an existing asset, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain an exclusion or exemption from registration. Further, we may not be able to invest in sufficient qualifying and/or real estate-related assets and future revisions, or interpretations of the Investment Company Act may cause us to lose our exclusion or exemption or force us to re-evaluate our portfolio and our business strategy. Such changes may prevent us from operating our business successfully. To the extent that the staff of the SEC provides more specific guidance regarding the treatment of assets as qualifying assets or real estate-related assets, we may be required to adjust our investment strategy accordingly. Any additional guidance from the staff of the SEC could provide additional flexibility to us, or it could further inhibit our ability to pursue the investment strategy we have chosen. As part of its duties under the management agreement, our Manager in consultation with legal and tax advisors, periodically evaluates our assets, and also evaluates prior to an acquisition or origination the structure of each prospective investment or asset, to determine whether we meet the qualifications for the exclusion from the definition of investment company in Section 3(a)(1)(C) and/or whether our Manager believes the investment will be a qualifying asset for purposes of maintaining the exemptions found in Sections 3(c)(5)(C) and/or 3(c)(6) from registration under the Investment Company Act. We consult with counsel to verify such determination as appropriate. If we are obligated to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act, including limitations on capital structure, restrictions on specified investments; prohibitions on transactions with affiliates, changes in the composition of the board of directors and compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly change our operations. In addition, the terms of our management agreement would need to be substantially revised or such agreement would need to be terminated. If the management agreement is terminated, we will, among other things, be in default under our repurchase or other financing facilities and financial institutions will have the right to terminate those facilities and their obligation to advance funds to us to finance our future investments. In addition, we may not be able to identify a replacement manager on favorable terms or at all. The current dislocations in the residential mortgage sector, and the current weakness in the broader financial market, could adversely affect us and one or more of our lenders, which could result in increases in our borrowing costs, reduction in our liquidity and reductions in the value of the investments in our portfolio. The continuing dislocations in the sub-prime mortgage sector and the current weakness in the broader financial market could adversely affect our counterparties providing repurchase agreements funding for our loan or CMBS investments, and could cause such counterparty to be unwilling or unable to provide us with additional financing. This could potentially limit our ability to finance our investments and operations, increase our financing costs and reduce our liquidity. If one or more major market participants fails or withdraws from the market, it could negatively impact the marketability of all fixed income securities, and this could reduce the value of the securities in our portfolio, thus reducing our net book value. Furthermore, if our counterparties are unwilling to or unable to provide us with ongoing financing, we could be forced to sell our investments at a time when prices are depressed. If this were to occur, it could prevent us from complying with the REIT asset and income tests necessary to fulfill our REIT qualification requirements or could cause us not to qualify for an exemption from the Investment Company Act, and otherwise materially harm our results of operation and financial outlook. Recent developments in the market for many types of mortgage products have resulted in reduced liquidity for these assets. Although this reduction in liquidity has been most acute with regard to residential assets, there has been an overall reduction in liquidity across the credit spectrum of mortgage products. 24 If we are unable to generate sufficient funds or obtain financing for future capital commitments, we may not be able to repay indebtedness or fund our other liquidity needs, which could have a material adverse effect on us. At December 31, 2007, we had future funding commitments of approximately $297.7 million related to real estate debt investments we held. Our ability to fund future capital commitments will depend, to a certain extent, on general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that may be beyond our control. We cannot be certain that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that we will be able to raise funds in the capital markets or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable to us to fund our liquidity needs. Our inability to fund future commitments may cause borrowers to take legal action against us, which could have a material adverse effect on us. However, as of December 31, 2007, we believe our cash flows from operations, available cash and cash equivalents and available borrowings will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs. For more information on our contractual commitments, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Contractual Obligations" and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Liquidity in the capital markets is essential to our businesses and future growth and we rely on external sources to finance significant portion of our operations. Liquidity is essential to our business and our ability to grow and to fund existing obligations. A primary source of liquidity for us has been the equity and debt capital markets, including issuing common equity, perpetual preferred equity and trust preferred securities. We depend on external financing to fund the growth of our business mainly because one of the requirements for the Internal Revenue Code for a REIT is that it distributes 90% of its taxable income to its shareholders, including taxable income where we do not receive corresponding cash. Our access to equity or debt financing depends on the willingness of third parties to make equity investments in us and provide us with corporate level debt. It also depends on conditions in the capital markets generally. Companies in the real estate industry, including us, are currently experiencing, and have at times historically experienced, limited availability of capital, and new capital sources may not be available on acceptable terms. Our ability to raise capital could be impaired if the capital markets have a negative perception of our long-term and short-term financial prospects or the prospects for mortgage REITs and the commercial real estate market generally. We cannot be certain that sufficient funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. If we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, we will not be able to grow our business, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, the liquidity in our portfolio may also be adversely affected by possible margin calls under our repurchase agreements. Our repurchase agreements allow the counterparties, to varying degrees, to determine a new market value of the collateral to reflect current market conditions. If such counterparties determine that the value of the collateral has decreased, it may initiate a margin call and require us to either post additional collateral to cover such decrease or repay a portion of the outstanding borrowing. A significant increase in margin calls as a result of spread widening could harm our liquidity, results of operation, financial condition, business prospects, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Additionally, in order to obtain cash to satisfy a margin call, we may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause us to incur further losses and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and may impair our ability to maintain our current level of dividends. For information about our available sources of funds, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources" and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 25 We utilize a significant amount of debt to finance our portfolio, which may subject us to an increased risk of loss, adversely affecting the return on our investments and reducing cash available for distribution. We utilize a significant amount of debt to finance our operations, which can compound losses and reduce the cash available for distributions to our stockholders. We generally leverage our portfolio through the use of secured and unsecured bank credit facilities, repurchase agreements, securitizations, including the issuance of CDOs and other borrowings. The leverage we employ varies depending on our ability to obtain financing, the loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios of our assets, the yield on our assets, the targeted leveraged return we expect from our portfolio and our ability to meet ongoing covenants related to our asset mix and financial performance. Substantially all of our assets are pledged, or subject to a negative pledge, as collateral for our secured borrowings or to support our unsecured borrowings. Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that we can derive from the assets we acquire. For example, we have purchased, and expect to purchase in the future should we issue additional CDO's, subordinate classes of bonds in our CDOs which represent leveraged investments in the collateral debt securities and other underlying assets. The use of leverage through such CDOs create the risk for the holders of the subordinate classes of bonds of increased exposure to losses on a leveraged basis as a result of defaults with respect to such collateral debt securities. As a result, the occurrence of defaults with respect to only a small portion of the collateral debt securities could result in the complete loss of the investment of the holders of the subordinate classes of bonds. Our debt service payments, including payments in connection with any CDOs, reduce the net income available for distributions. Moreover, we may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy our debt obligations. Under our repurchase agreements, our lenders take title to our assets and may have an ability to liquidate our assets through an expedited process. Currently, neither our charter nor our bylaws impose any limitations on the extent to which we may leverage our assets. The recent downturn in the credit markets has increased the cost of borrowing and has made financing difficult to obtain, which has negatively impacted our business, and may have a material adverse effect on us. During 2007, the sub prime residential lending and single family housing markets began to experience accelerating default rates, declining real estate values and increasing backlog of housing supply. The residential sector issues quickly spread more broadly into the asset-backed, corporate and other credit and equity markets. Since the sub prime meltdown, volatility and risk premiums in most credit and equity markets have increased dramatically while liquidity has decreased. These issues have continued into the beginning of fiscal 2008. Increasing concerns regarding the U.S. and world economic outlook, such as large asset write-downs at banks, rising oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, are compounding these issues and risk premiums in most capital markets remain near historical all-time highs. Although we do not have any direct sub prime exposure or direct exposure to the single family mortgage market, the factors described above have resulted in substantially reduced commercial mortgage loan originations and securitizations, and are precipitating more generalized credit market dislocations and a significant contraction in available credit. As a result, most financial industry participants, including commercial real estate lenders and investors, are finding it difficult to obtain cost-effective debt capital to finance new investment activity or to refinance maturing debt. Due to these conditions, the commercial real estate finance market has experienced higher volatility and less liquidity despite continued relatively strong credit performance across the sector. Credit has become more expensive and difficult to obtain for the Company and its competitors. The cost of financing as well as overall market-demanded risk premiums in commercial lending have increased. Most lenders are imposing more stringent restrictions on the terms of credit and there is a 26 general reduction in the amount of credit available in the markets in which we conduct business. The negative impact on the tightening of the credit markets, further declines in real estate values in the U.S. and continuing credit and liquidity concerns may have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, there is no assurance that the increased financing costs, financing with increasingly restrictive terms or the increase in risk premiums that are demanded by investors will not have a material impact on our future profitability measures. However, we expect that a portion of the impact of increased capital costs will be offset by increased yields on newly-originated assets, particularly if assets in our existing commercial real estate CDOs are repaid. If GKK Manager LLC ceases to be the Manager pursuant to the management agreement, financial institutions providing our repurchase facilities may not provide future financing to us. The financial institutions that finance our investments pursuant to our repurchase agreements require that GKK Manager LLC remain our Manager pursuant to the management agreement. If GKK Manager LLC ceases to be our Manager, it is an event of default and the financial institutions under these facilities have the right to terminate the facilities and their obligation to advance funds to us to finance our future investments. If GKK Manager LLC ceases to be our Manager for any reason and we are unable to obtain financing under these or replacement credit and repurchase facilities, our growth may be limited. Our repurchase agreements and our CDO financing agreements may limit our ability to make investments. In order to borrow money to make investments under our repurchase agreements, our repurchase lenders, Wachovia and Goldman, have the right to review the potential investment for which we are seeking financing. We may be unable to obtain the consent of our lenders to make investments that we believe are favorable to our company. In the event that Wachovia or Goldman do not consent to the inclusion of the potential asset in the respective repurchase facility, we may be unable to obtain alternate financing for that investment. Our lender's consent rights with respect to our repurchase agreements may limit our ability to execute our business plan. Each CDO financing that we engage in will contain certain eligibility criteria with respect to the collateral that we seek to acquire and sell to the CDO issuer. If the collateral does not meet the eligibility criteria for eligible collateral as set forth in the transaction documents of such CDO transaction, we may not be able to acquire and sell such collateral to the CDO issuer. The inability of the collateral to meet eligibility requirements with respect to our CDOs may limit our ability to execute our business plan. We may not be able to issue CDO securities on attractive terms or at all, which may require us to seek more costly financing for our investments or to liquidate assets. Conditions in the capital markets may make the issuance of a CDO less attractive or unavailable to us even in instances when we have a sufficient pool of eligible collateral. If we are unable to issue a CDO to finance these assets, or if doing so is not economical, we may be required to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or otherwise to liquidate the collateral. Investor demand for commercial real estate CDOs has been substantially curtailed. The recent turmoil in the structured finance markets, in particular the sub-prime residential loan market, has negatively impacted the credit markets generally, and, as a result, investor demand for commercial real estate CDOs has been substantially curtailed. In recent years, we have relied, to a substantial extent, on CDO financings to obtain match funded financing for our investments. Until the market for commercial real estate CDOs recovers, we may be unable to utilize CDOs to finance our investments and we may need to utilize less favorable sources of financing to finance our investments 27 on a long-term basis. If such other forms of long-term financing are unavailable, it may be necessary to fund our investments using shorter term debt financing, in which case we would not meet our objective of match funding for substantially all of our investments. There can be no assurance as to whether or when demand for commercial real estate CDOs will return or the terms of such securities investors will demand or whether we will be able to issue CDOs to finance our investments on terms beneficial to us. We may not be able to access financing sources on favorable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and our ability to distribute dividends. We finance our assets over the long-term through a variety of means, including repurchase agreements, secured and unsecured credit facilities, CDOs and other structured financings. We have also financed our investments through the issuance of $150 million of trust preferred securities. Our ability to execute this strategy depends on various conditions in the markets for financing in this manner which are beyond our control, including lack of liquidity and wider credit spreads. We cannot be certain that these markets, especially the structured finance markets, will provide an efficient source of long-term financing for our assets. Our ability to finance through CDOs is subject to a level of investor demand which has been significantly curtailed in the second half of 2007 and in 2008 to date. If our strategy is not viable, we will have to attempt to find alternative forms of long-term financing for our assets, as secured revolving credit facilities and repurchase facilities, if available, may not accommodate long-term financing. This could subject us to more recourse indebtedness and the risk that debt service on less efficient forms of financing would require a larger portion of our cash flows, to service our debt thereby reducing cash available for distribution to our stockholders, funds available for operations as well as for future business opportunities. In addition, we depend upon the availability of adequate financing sources and capital for our operations. As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain, to our stockholders and are therefore not able to retain our earnings for new investments. However, our taxable REIT subsidiaries are able to retain (and likely will retain) earnings for investment in new capital, subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT. We cannot be certain that any, or sufficient, funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. Furthermore, if the minimum dividend distribution required to maintain our REIT qualification becomes large relative to our cash flow due to our taxable income exceeding our cash flow from operations, then we could be forced to borrow funds, sell assets or raise capital on unfavorable terms, if we are able to at all, in order to maintain our REIT qualification. In the event that we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the market price of our common shares and our ability to distribute dividends. Lack of diversification in number of investments increases our dependence on individual investments. If we acquire larger loans or property interests, our portfolio will be concentrated in a smaller number of assets, increasing the risk of loss to stockholders if a default or other problem arises. Interest rate fluctuations could reduce our ability to generate income on our investments. The yield on our investments in real estate securities and loans is sensitive to changes in prevailing interest rates and changes in prepayment rates. Changes in interest rates can affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning investments and the interest expense we incur in financing these investments. We tend to price loans at a spread to either United States Treasury obligations, swaps or LIBOR. A decrease in these indexes will lower the yield on our investments, except to the extent certain of our loans contain floors below 28 which the interest rate cannot decline. Conversely, if these indexes rise materially, borrowers may be unable to meet their debt service requirements and borrow the higher-leverage loans that we target. In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase while the interest we earn on our fixed-rate assets would not change, which would adversely affect our profitability. Our operating results depend in large part on differences between the income from our assets, net of credit losses, and financing costs. In most cases, for any period during which our assets are not match-funded, the income from such assets will respond more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of our borrowings. Consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may significantly influence our net income. Increases in these rates will tend to decrease our net income and market value of our assets. Interest rate fluctuations resulting in our interest expense exceeding our interest income would result in operating losses for us and may limit or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If credit spreads widen before we obtain long-term financing for our assets, the value of our assets may suffer. We price our assets based on our assumptions about future credit spreads for financing of those assets. We have obtained, and may obtain in the future, longer term financing for our assets using structured financing techniques. Such issuances entail interest rates set at a spread over a certain benchmark, such as the yield on United States Treasury obligations, swaps or LIBOR. If the spread that investors are paying on our current structured finance vehicles and will pay on future structured finance vehicles we may engage in over the benchmark widens and the rates we are charging or will charge on our securitized assets are not increased accordingly, our income may be reduced or we could suffer losses which could affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The repurchase agreements and credit facilities that we use to finance our investments may require us to provide additional collateral. We use credit facilities and repurchase agreements to finance some of our debt investments, primarily on an interim basis. If the market value of the loans pledged or sold by us to a funding source declines in value, we may be required by the lending institution to provide additional collateral or repay a portion of the funds advanced. We may not have the funds available to pay down our debt, which could result in defaults. Posting additional collateral to support our repurchase and credit facilities will reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets. In the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet such requirements, lending institutions can accelerate our indebtedness, increase interest rates and terminate our ability to borrow. Such a situation would likely result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition and possibly necessitate a filing for protection under the United States Bankruptcy Code. Further, facility providers may require us to maintain a certain amount of cash uninvested or set aside unlevered assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position, which would allow us to satisfy our collateral obligations. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our return on assets. In the event that we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations. When we obtain financing, lenders impose restrictions on us that affect our ability to incur additional debt, our capability to make distributions to stockholders and our flexibility to determine our operating policies. Loan documents we execute contain negative covenants that limit, among other things, our ability to repurchase stock, distribute more than a certain amount of our funds from operations, and employ leverage beyond certain amounts. 29 We may not be able to find suitable replacement investments for CDOs with reinvestment periods. Some of our CDOs have periods where principal proceeds received from assets securing the CDO can be reinvested only for a defined period of time, commonly referred to as a reinvestment period. Our ability to find suitable investments during the reinvestment period that meet the criteria set forth in the CDO documentation and by rating agencies may determine the success of our CDO investments. Our potential inability to find suitable investments may cause, among other things, lower returns, interest deficiencies, hyper-amortization of the senior CDO securities and may cause us to reduce the life of our CDOs and accelerate the amortization of certain fees and expenses. The use of CDO financings with coverage tests may have a negative impact on our operating results and cash flows. We have purchased, and expect to purchase in the future should we issue additional CDOs, subordinate classes of bonds issued by certain of our subsidiaries. The terms of the CDO securities issued by us include and will include coverage tests, including interest coverage and over-collateralization tests, used primarily to determine whether and to what extent principal and interest proceeds on the underlying collateral debt securities and other assets may be used to pay principal of and interest on the subordinate classes of bonds in the CDO. In the event the coverage tests are not satisfied, interest and principal that would otherwise be payable on the subordinate classes may be re-directed to pay principal on the senior bond classes. Therefore, failure to satisfy the coverage tests could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Although these coverage tests are currently being met, we cannot be certain that the coverage tests will continue to be satisfied in the future. Certain coverage tests (based on delinquency levels or other criteria) may also restrict our ability to receive net income from assets pledged to secure the CDOs. We cannot be certain, in advance of completing negotiations with the rating agencies or other key transaction parties on any future CDOs, to the extent available, as to the actual terms of the delinquency tests, over-collateralization terms, cash flow release mechanisms or other significant factors regarding the calculation of net income to us. Failure to obtain favorable terms with regard to these matters may materially and adversely affect the availability of net income to us. If our assets fail to perform as anticipated, our over-collateralization or other credit enhancement expense associated with our CDOs will increase. If we issue senior securities we will be exposed to additional restrictive covenants and limitations on our operating flexibility, which could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends. If we decide to issue senior securities in the future, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Holders of senior securities may be granted specific rights, including but not limited to: the right to hold a perfected security interest in certain of our assets, the right to accelerate payments due under the indenture, rights to restrict dividend payments, and rights to require approval to sell assets. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. We, and indirectly our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. We may be required to repurchase loans that we have sold or to indemnify holders of our CDOs. If any of the loans we originate or acquire and sell or securitize do not comply with representations and warranties that we make about certain characteristics of the loans, the borrowers and the underlying properties, we may be required to repurchase those loans (including from a trust vehicle used to facilitate a structured financing of the assets through CDOs) or replace them with substitute loans. In addition, we may elect to repurchase loans from our CDOs, although we are not 30 required to do so. In addition, in the case of loans that we have sold instead of retained, we may be required to indemnify persons for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty. Repurchased loans typically require a significant allocation of working capital to carry on our balance sheet, and our ability to borrow against such assets is limited. Any significant repurchases or indemnification payments could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our hedging transactions may limit our gains or result in losses. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we use a variety of derivative instruments that are considered conventional "plain vanilla" derivatives, including interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors, in our risk management strategy to limit the effects of changes in interest rates on our operations. Our primary hedging strategy consists of entering into interest rate swap contracts. Additionally, we, in certain select instances, choose to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in CMBS credit spreads by purchasing swaps written against a broad-based CMBS index. The value of our derivatives may fluctuate over time in response to changing market conditions, and will tend to change inversely with the value of the risk in our liabilities that we intend to hedge. Hedges are sometimes ineffective because the correlation between changes in value of the underlying investment and the derivative instrument is less than was expected when the hedging transaction was undertaken. Since a portion of our hedging activity is intended to cover the period between origination or purchase of loans and their eventual sale or securitization, unmatched losses in our hedging program can occur when the planned securitization fails to occur, or if the hedge proves to be ineffective. Our hedging transactions, which are intended to limit losses, may actually limit gains and increase our exposure to losses. The use of derivatives to hedge our liabilities carries certain risks, including the risk that losses on a hedge position will reduce the cash available for distribution to stockholders and that these losses may exceed the amount invested in such instruments. A hedge may not be effective in eliminating all of the risks inherent in any particular position and could result in higher interest rates than we would otherwise have. In addition, there will be many market risks against which we may not be able to hedge effectively. Moreover, no hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates, and our qualification as a REIT may limit our ability to effectively hedge our interest rate exposure. Our profitability may be adversely affected during any period as a result of the use of derivatives. Also, mark-to-market adjustments on our hedging transactions may require us to post additional collateral or make a cash deposit that reduces our available liquidity. Our reserves for loan losses may prove inadequate, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We maintain and regularly evaluate financial reserves to protect against potential future losses. Our reserves reflect management's judgment of the probability and severity of losses. We cannot be certain that our judgment will prove to be correct and that reserves will be adequate over time to protect against potential future losses because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific assets, borrowers, industries in which our borrowers operate or markets in which our borrowers or their properties are located. If our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate we could suffer losses which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 31 We are subject to the risk that provisions of our loan agreements may be unenforceable. Our rights and obligations with respect to our loans are governed by written loan agreements and related documentation. It is possible that a court could determine that one or more provisions of a loan agreement are unenforceable, such as a loan prepayment provision or the provisions governing our security interest in the underlying collateral. If this were to happen with respect to a material asset or group of assets we could be adversely affected. We are subject to significant competition and we may not compete successfully. We have significant competition with respect to our acquisition and origination of assets with many other companies, including other mortgage REITs, insurance companies, commercial banks, private investment funds, hedge funds, specialty finance companies and other investors. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. We cannot be certain that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. Rapid changes in the values of our CMBS and other real estate related investments may make it more difficult for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT or exemption from the Investment Company Act. If the market value or income potential of our CMBS and other real estate-related investments declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates or other factors, we may need to increase our real estate investments and income and/or liquidate our non-qualifying assets in order to maintain our REIT qualification or exemption from the Investment Company Act. If the decline in real estate asset values and/or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish. This difficulty may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of many of our non-real estate assets. We may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the REIT and Investment Company Act considerations. If we fail to achieve adequate operating cash flow, our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected. As a REIT, we must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. Our ability to make and sustain cash distributions is based on many factors, including the return on our investments, operating expense levels and certain restrictions imposed by Maryland law. Some of the factors are beyond our control and a change in any such factor could affect our ability to pay future dividends. No assurance can be given as to our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the market for our common stock, the industry in which we conduct our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may harm our results of operations and the stockholder's investment. We cannot be certain that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the U.S. or U.S. businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact the property underlying our asset-based securities or the securities markets in general. Losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets and economy. Adverse economic conditions could harm the value of the property underlying our asset-backed securities or the 32 securities markets in general which could harm our operating results and revenues and may result in the volatility of the value of our securities. We are required to make a number of judgments in applying accounting policies and different estimates and assumptions in the application of these policies could result in changes to our reporting of financial condition and results of operations. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change relate to the determination for loan losses, the effectiveness of derivatives and other hedging activities, the fair value of certain financial instruments (debt obligations, CMBS, loan assets, securities, derivatives, and privately held investments), CTL investments, deferred income tax assets or liabilities, share-based compensation, and accounting for acquisitions, including the fair value determinations and the analysis of goodwill impairment. While we have identified those accounting policies that are considered critical and have procedures in place to facilitate the associated judgments, different assumptions in the application of these policies could result in material changes to our reports of financial condition and results of operations. We are highly dependent on information systems and third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems, some of which are provided by third parties. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, including mortgage-backed securities trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Investments Some of our portfolio investments may be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by the Manager and, as a result, there will be uncertainty as to the value of these investments. Changes in the market values of our investments in securities available for sale will be directly charged or credited to stockholders' equity. As a result, a decline in values may reduce the book value of our assets. Moreover, if the decline in value of a security is other than temporary, such decline will reduce earnings. Any such charges may result in volatility in our reported earnings and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Some of our portfolio investments may be in the form of securities, including CMBS that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We value these investments quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our Manager. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. We may not realize gains or income from our investments. We seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation. However, the securities we invest in may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value, and the debt securities we invest in may default on interest and/or principal payments. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains or income from our investments. Any gains that we do realize may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Any income that we realize may not be sufficient to offset our expenses. 33 A prolonged economic slowdown, a lengthy or severe recession, a reduction in liquidity, or declining real estate values could harm our operations. We believe the risk associated with our business is more severe during periods of economic slowdown or recession if these periods are accompanied by declining real estate values. Declining real estate values will likely reduce our level of new mortgage loan originations, since borrowers often use increases in the value of their existing properties to support the purchase or investment in additional properties. Borrowers may also be less able to pay principal and interest on our loans if the real estate economy weakens. Further, declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that we will incur losses on our loans in the event of default because the value of our collateral may be insufficient to recover the carrying value of the loan. A reduction in capital markets liquidity may cause difficulties for borrowers seeking to refinance existing loans at or prior to maturity, even in instances of satisfactory property cash flow and collateral value. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect both our net interest income from loans in our portfolio as well as our ability to originate, sell and securitize loans, which would significantly harm our revenues, results of operations, financial condition, business prospects and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic changes in geographic areas where our properties are concentrated. Adverse conditions in the areas where our properties or the properties underlying our investments are located (including business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors) and local real estate conditions (such as oversupply of, or reduced demand for, office, industrial or retail properties) may have an adverse effect on the value of our properties. A material decline in the demand or the ability of tenants to pay rent for office, industrial or retail space in these geographic areas may result in a material decline in our cash available for distribution. Joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer's financial condition. We co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. Therefore, we will not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding that property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals. These investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Consequently, actions by such partner, co-tenant or co-venturer might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. Some of our loans are participation interests in loans, or co-lender arrangements, in which we share the rights, obligations and benefits of the loan with other lenders. We may need the consent of these parties to exercise our rights under such loans, including rights with respect to amendment of loan documentation, enforcement proceedings in the event of default and the institution of, and control over, foreclosure proceedings. Similarly, a majority of the participants may be able to take actions to which we object but to which we will be bound if our participation interest represents a minority interest. We may be adversely affected by this lack of complete control. 34 We may in the future enter into joint venture agreements that contain terms in favor of our partners that may have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures. For example, we may be entitled under a particular joint venture agreement to an economic share in the profits of the joint venture that is smaller than our ownership percentage in the joint venture, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such profits and our partner may have rights to buy our interest in the joint venture, to force us to buy the partner's interest in the joint venture or to compel the sale of the property owned by such joint venture. These rights may permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit from the value or profits of the joint venture than us, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our investment in the joint venture and on our financial condition and results of operations. Liability relating to environmental matters may impact the value of the properties that we may acquire or underlying our investments. Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on its property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or, was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. There may be environmental problems associated with our properties which we were unaware of at the time of acquisition. The presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect an owner's ability to sell real estate or borrow using real estate as collateral. To the extent that an owner of a property underlying one of our debt investments becomes liable for removal costs, the ability of the owner to make debt payments to us may be reduced. This, in turn, may adversely affect the value of the relevant mortgage asset held by us and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. If the presence of hazardous substances on our properties may adversely affect our ability to sell an affected property and we may incur substantial remediation costs, thus harming our financial condition. In addition, although our leases, if any, will generally require our tenants to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising from a tenant's activities on the property, we nonetheless would be subject to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interest for environmental liabilities created by such tenants, and we cannot ensure the stockholders that any tenants we might have would satisfy their indemnification obligations under the applicable sales agreement or lease. The discovery of material environmental liabilities attached to such properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we 35 enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot be certain that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. Prepayments can adversely affect the yields on our investments. The yield of our portfolio assets may be affected by the rate of prepayments differing from our projections. Prepayments on debt instruments, where permitted under the debt documents, are influenced by changes in current interest rates and a variety of economic, geographic and other factors beyond our control, and consequently, such prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty. In periods of declining interest rates, prepayments on mortgage at similar yields, and loans generally increase. If we are unable to invest the proceeds of such prepayments received, the yield on our portfolio will decline. In addition, we may acquire assets at a discount or premium and if the portfolio asset does not repay when expected, our anticipated yield may be impacted. Under certain interest rate and prepayment scenarios we may fail to recoup fully our cost of acquisition of certain investments. The loans we invest in and the commercial mortgage loans underlying the CMBS we invest in are subject to risks of delinquency foreclosure, and loss. Commercial mortgage loans are secured by commercial or residential property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure. CMBS evidence interests in or are secured by a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans. These risks of loss are greater than similar risks associated with loans made on the security of single-family residential property. The ability of a borrower to pay principal and interest on a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of the property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by a number of conditions beyond our control, including: •tenant mix; •success of tenant businesses; •property management decisions; •property location and condition; •competition from comparable types of properties; •changes in laws that increase operating expense or limit rents that may be charged; •any need to address environmental contamination at the property; •the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property; •changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments; •declines in regional or local real estate values; •declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates; •increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses; and •changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. 36 Any of these factors could have an adverse affect on the ability of the borrower to make payments of principal and interest in a timely fashion, or at all, on the mortgage loans in which we invest and could adversely affect the cash flows we intend to receive from these investments. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear the risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest on the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to the borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process which could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. The subordinate interests in whole loans in which we invest may be subject to additional risks relating to the privately negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may result in losses to us. A subordinate interest in a whole loan is a mortgage loan typically (i) secured by a whole loan on a single large commercial property or group of related properties and (ii) subordinated to an senior interest secured by the same whole loan on the same collateral. As a result, if a borrower defaults, there may not be sufficient funds remaining for subordinate interest owners after payment to the senior interest owners. Subordinate interests reflect similar credit risks to comparably rated CMBS. However, since each transaction is privately negotiated, subordinate interests can vary in their structural characteristics and risks. For example, the rights of holders of subordinate interests to control the process following a borrower default may be limited in certain investments. We cannot predict the terms of each subordinate investment. Further, subordinate interests typically are secured by a single property, and so reflect the increased risks associated with a single property compared to a pool of properties. Subordinate interests also are less liquid than CMBS, thus we may be unable to dispose of underperforming or non-performing investments. The higher risks associated with our subordinate position in these investments could subject us to increased risk of losses. Investment in non-conforming and non-investment grade loans may involve increased risk of loss. We acquire or originate and may continue to acquire or originate in the future certain loans that do not conform to conventional loan criteria applied by traditional lenders and are not rated or are rated as non-investment grade (for example, for investments rated by Moody's Investors Service, ratings lower than Baa3, and for Standard & Poor's, BBB- or below). The non-investment grade ratings for these loans typically result from the overall leverage of the loans, the lack of a strong operating history for the properties underlying the loans, the borrowers' credit history, the properties' underlying cash flow or other factors. As a result, these loans have a higher risk of default and loss than conventional loans. Any loss we incur may reduce distributions to our stockholders. There are no limits on the percentage of unrated or non-investment grade assets we may hold in our portfolio. Investments in mezzanine loans involve greater risks of loss than senior loans secured by income producing properties. Investments in mezzanine loans are secured by a pledge of the ownership interests in the entity that directly or indirectly owns the property. These types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than a senior mortgage loan because the investment may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse, to the assets of the property owning entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to satisfy our mezzanine loan. If a borrower defaults on our 37 mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in losses. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan to value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. We evaluate the collectibility of both interest and principal of each of our loans, if circumstances warrant, to determine whether they are impaired. A loan is impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the existing contractual terms. When a loan is impaired, the amount of the loss accrual is calculated by comparing the carrying amount of the investment to the value determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at the loan's effective interest rate or, as a practical expedient, to the value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. We can not be certain that our estimates of collectible amounts will not change over time or that they will be representative of the amounts we actually collect, including amounts we would collect if we chose to sell these investments before their maturity. If we collect less than our estimates, we will record charges which could be material. Bridge loans involve a greater risk of loss than traditional mortgage loans. We provide bridge loans secured by first lien mortgages on a property to borrowers who are typically seeking short-term capital to be used in an acquisition or renovation of real estate. The borrower has usually identified an undervalued asset that has been under-managed or is located in a recovering market. If the market in which the asset is located fails to recover according to the borrower's projections, or if the borrower fails to improve the quality of the asset's management or the value of the asset, the borrower may not receive a sufficient return on the asset to satisfy the bridge loan, and we may not recover some or all of our investment. In addition, owners usually borrow funds under a conventional mortgage loan to repay a bridge loan. We may therefore be dependent on a borrower's ability to obtain permanent financing to repay our bridge loan, which could depend on market conditions and other factors. Bridge loans are also subject to risks of borrower defaults, bankruptcies, fraud, losses and special hazard losses that are not covered by standard hazard insurance. In the event of any default under bridge loans held by us, we bear the risk of loss of principal and non-payment of interest and fees to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the mortgage collateral and the principal amount of the bridge loan. To the extent we suffer such losses with respect to our investments in bridge loans, the value of our company and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Preferred equity investments involve a greater risk of loss than traditional debt financing. Preferred equity investments are subordinate to debt financing and are not secured. Should the issuer default on our investment, we would only be able to proceed against the entity that issued the preferred equity in accordance with the terms of the preferred security, and not any property owned by the entity. Furthermore, in the event of bankruptcy or foreclosure, we would only be able to recoup our investment after any lenders to the entity are paid. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in losses. Our investments in subordinate loans and subordinated CMBS are subject to losses. We acquire subordinated loans and may invest in subordinated CMBS. In the event a borrower defaults on a loan and lacks sufficient assets to satisfy our loan, we may suffer a loss of principal or interest. In the event a borrower declares bankruptcy, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the borrower, or the assets of the borrower may not be sufficient to satisfy the loan. In addition, certain of our loans may be subordinate to other debt of the borrower. If a borrower defaults on our loan or on debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full. Where debt senior to our loan exists, the presence of 38 intercreditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies (through "standstill periods") and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. In general, losses on a mortgage loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the equity holder of the property, then by a cash reserve fund or letter of credit, if any, and then by the "first loss" subordinated security holder. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit and any classes of securities junior to those in which we invest, we will not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities we purchase. Likewise, we may not be able to recover some or all of our investment in certain subordinated loans in which we obtain interests. In addition, if the underlying mortgage portfolio has been overvalued by the originator, or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related CMBS, the securities in which we invest may effectively become the "first loss" position behind the more senior securities, which may result in significant losses to us. An economic downturn could increase the risk of loss on our investments in subordinated CMBS. The prices of lower credit-quality securities, such as the subordinated CMBS in which we may invest, are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than more highly rated investments, but are more sensitive to adverse economic downturns or individual property developments. An economic downturn or a projection of an economic downturn could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors of mortgages underlying CMBS to make principal and interest payments may be impaired. In such event, existing credit support to a securitized structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these securities. We may make investments in assets with lower credit quality, which will increase our risk of losses. Substantially all of our securities investments have explicit ratings assigned by at least one of the three leading nationally-recognized statistical rating agencies. However, we may invest in unrated securities, enter into net leases with unrated tenants or participate in unrated or distressed mortgage loans. An economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality investments and securities because the ability of the obligors of net leases and mortgages, including mortgages underlying CMBS, to make rent or principal and interest payments may be impaired. If this were to occur, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these investments and securities. We have not established and do not currently plan to establish any investment criteria to limit our exposure to these risks for future investments. Our investments in debt securities are subject to specific risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities and to the general risks of investing in subordinated real estate securities. Our investments in debt securities involve special risks. REITs generally are required to invest substantially in real estate or real estate-related assets and are subject to the inherent risks associated with real estate-related investments discussed in this filing. Our investments in debt are subject to the risks described above with respect to mortgage loans and CMBS and similar risks, including: •risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss in the event thereof; •the dependence upon the successful operation of and net income from real property; •risks generally incident to interests in real property; and •risks that may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property. Debt securities may be unsecured and may also be subordinated to other obligations of the issuer. We may also invest in debt securities that are rated below investment grade. As a result, investments in debt securities are also subject to risks of: •limited liquidity in the secondary trading market; 39 •substantial market price volatility resulting from changes in prevailing interest rates or credit spreads; •subordination to the prior claims of banks and other senior lenders to the issuer; •the operation of mandatory sinking fund or call/redemption provisions during periods of declining interest rates that could cause the issuer to reinvest premature redemption proceeds in lower yielding assets; •the possibility that earnings of the debt security issuer may be insufficient to meet its debt service; and •the declining creditworthiness and potential for insolvency of the issuer of such debt securities during periods of rising interest rates and economic downturn. These risks may adversely affect the value of outstanding debt securities and the ability of the issuers thereof to repay principal and interest. Our real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property. We own both assets secured by real estate and real estate directly. Real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property. •acts of God, including earthquakes floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses; •acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks; •adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions, including the credit and securitization markets; •changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; •the perceptions of prospective tenants of the attractiveness of the properties; •costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions; and •the potential for uninsured or under-insured property losses. If any of these or similar events occur, it may reduce our return from an affected property or investment and reduce or eliminate our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our real estate investments may be illiquid, which could restrict our ability to respond rapidly to changes in economic conditions. The real estate and real estate-related assets in which we invest are generally illiquid. In addition, the instruments that we purchase in connection with privately negotiated transactions are not registered under the relevant securities laws, resulting in a prohibition against their transfer, sale, pledge or other disposition except in a transaction that is exempt from the registration requirements of, or is otherwise in accordance with, those laws. A majority of the CMBS and debt instruments that we purchase are purchased in private, unregistered transactions. As a result, the majority of our investments in securities are subject to restrictions on resale or otherwise have no established trading market. As a result, our ability to sell under-performing assets in our portfolio or respond to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited. CTL investments may generate losses. The value of our investments and the income from our CTL investments may be significantly adversely affected by a number of factors, including: •national, state and local economic climates; •real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of or a reduction in demand for real estate space in the area; 40 •the perceptions of tenants and prospective tenants of the convenience, attractiveness and safety of our properties; •competition from comparable properties; •the occupancy rate of our properties; •the ability to collect on a timely basis all rent from tenants; •the effects of any bankruptcies or insolvencies of major tenants; •the expense of re-leasing space; •changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funding; •the impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws; •cost of compliance with the American with Disabilities Act of 1990; •adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies; •civil unrest; •acts of nature, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters (which may result in uninsured losses); •acts of terrorism or war; •adverse changes in zoning laws; and •other factors which are beyond our control. We may not be able to relet or renew leases at the properties held by us on terms favorable to us. We are subject to risks that upon expiration or earlier termination of the leases for space located at our properties the space may not be relet or, if relet, the terms of the renewal or reletting (including the costs of required renovations or concessions to tenants) may be less favorable that current lease terms. Any of these situations may result in extended periods where there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by a property. If we are unable to relet or renew leases for all or substantially all of the spaces at these properties, if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected, or if our reserves for these purposes prove inadequate, we will experience a reduction in net income and may be required to reduce or eliminate distributions to our stockholders. Lease defaults or terminations or landlord-tenant disputes may adversely reduce our income from our net lease property portfolio. Lease defaults or terminations by one or more of our significant tenants may reduce our revenues unless a default in cured or a suitable replacement tenant is found promptly. In addition, disputes may arise between the landlord and tenant that result in the tenant withholding rent payments, possibly for an extended period. These disputes may lead to litigation or other legal procedures to secure payment of the rent withheld or to evict the tenant. Any of these situations may result in extended periods during which there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by the property. If this were to occur, it could adversely affect our results of operations. 41 We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, part of our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts that could require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances, e.g., the early termination of the derivative agreement caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the derivative contract. The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These economic losses will be reflected in our financial results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. Our due diligence may not reveal all of a borrower's liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in its business. Before investing in a company or making a loan to a borrower, we assess the strength and skills of such entity's management and other factors that we believe are material to the performance of the investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly subjective with respect to newly organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. There can be no assurance that our due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure The concentration of our ownership may adversely affect the ability of investors to influence our policies. SL Green owns approximately 22% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, SL Green has the right to purchase up to 25% of the shares in any future offering of common stock. Accordingly, SL Green has significant influence over us. The ownership level of SL Green may discourage or prevent others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. This concentration of ownership may result in decisions affecting us that may not serve the best interest of all stockholders. Maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price. Under Maryland law, certain "business combinations" between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or asset transfers or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as: •any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's shares; or •an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. 42 After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: •80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation; and •two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or by the interested stockholder's affiliates or associates, voting together as a single group. The business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. We have opted out of these provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, with respect to its business combination provisions and its control share provisions by resolution of our board of directors and a provision in our bylaws, respectively. However, in the future our board of directors may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the MGCL's business combination provisions, or amend our bylaws and elect to opt in to the MGCL's control share provisions. Additionally, Title 8, Subtitle 3 of the MGCL permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which we do not have. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the stockholders with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. Our authorized but unissued preferred stock may prevent a change in our control which could be in the stockholders' best interests. Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock. Any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders' interests. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board of directors may establish a series of preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our staggered board of directors and other provisions of our charter and bylaws may prevent a change in our control. Our board of directors is divided into three classes of directors. The current terms of the directors expire in 2008, 2009 and 2010. Directors of each class are chosen for three-year terms upon the expiration of their current terms, and each year one class of directors is elected by the stockholders. The staggered terms of our directors may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interest of our stockholders. In addition, our charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. 43 Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common stock depends on various market conditions which may change from time to time. Among the market conditions that may affect the value of our common stock are the following: •the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; •our financial performance; and •general stock and bond market conditions. The market value of our common stock is based primarily upon the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions. Consequently, our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. If our future earnings or cash dividends are less than expected, it is likely that the market price of our common stock will diminish. An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of our common stock is our distribution rate as a percentage of our share price relative to market interest rates. If the market price of our common stock is based primarily on the earnings and return that we derive from our investments and income with respect to our investments and our related distributions to stockholders, and not from the market value of the investments themselves, then interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions will likely affect the market price of our common stock. For instance, if market rates rise without an increase in our distribution rate, the market price of our common stock could decrease as potential investors may require a higher distribution yield on our common stock or seek other securities paying higher distributions or interest. In addition, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on our variable rate debt, thereby adversely affecting cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and pay distributions. Risks Related to Our Taxation as a REIT Our failure to qualify as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduced cash available for stockholders. We intend to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our continued qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution and stockholder ownership requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy some of the asset tests depends upon the fair market values of our assets, some of which are not able to be precisely determined and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, and certain statutory relief provisions were not available, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. Unless entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity. In order to qualify as a REIT, each year we must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction, and not including any net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute 44 less than 100% of our net taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed net taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal tax laws. We intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT distribution requirements and avoid corporate income tax and/or excise tax. However, differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement or avoid corporate income or excise tax. We may own assets that generate mismatches between taxable income and available cash. These assets may include (a) securities that have been financed through financing structures which require some or all of available cash flows to be used to service borrowings, (b) loans or CMBS we hold that have been issued at a discount and require the accrual of taxable economic interest in advance of receipt in cash, and (c) distressed debt on which we may be required to accrue taxable interest income even though the borrower is unable to make current debt service payments in cash. As a result, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our net taxable income could cause us to: (a) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (b) borrow on unfavorable terms or (c) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt to comply with REIT requirements. To maximize the return on our funds, cash generated from operations is expected to be used to temporarily pay down borrowings. When making distributions, we may borrow the required funds by drawing on credit capacity available under our credit or repurchase facilities. If distributions exceed the amount of cash generated from operations, we may be required to borrow additional funds, which, in turn, would reduce the amount of funds available for other purposes. Further, amounts distributed will not be available to fund investment activities. We expect to fund our investments by raising equity capital and through borrowings from financial institutions and the debt capital markets. If we fail to obtain debt or equity capital in the future, it could limit our ability to grow, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The existing REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may substantially limit our ability to hedge our operations. Except to the extent provided by Treasury regulations, any income from a hedging transaction we enter into in the normal course of our business primarily to manage risk of interest rate or price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made, or ordinary obligations incurred or to be incurred, to acquire or carry real estate assets, which is clearly identified as specified in Treasury regulations before the close of the day on which it was acquired, originated, or entered into, including gain from the sale or disposition of such a transaction, will not constitute gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test (and will generally constitute non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test). To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. In addition, we must limit our aggregate income from non-qualified hedging transactions, from our provision of services and from other non-qualifying sources, to less than 5% of our annual gross income (determined without regard to gross income from qualified hedging transactions). As a result, we may have to limit our use of certain hedging techniques or implement those hedges through TRSs. This could result in greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to incur or could increase the cost of our hedging activities. If we fail to satisfy the 75% or 95% limitations, we could lose our REIT qualification for U.S. federal income tax purposes, unless our failure was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect, and we meet certain other technical requirements. Even if our failure was due to reasonable cause, we might incur a penalty tax. 45 The stock ownership limit imposed by the Internal Revenue Code for REITs and our charter may inhibit market activity in our stock and may restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% of the aggregate value of the outstanding shares of our stock. Our board of directors may not grant such an exemption to any proposed transferee whose ownership of in excess of 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares would result in the termination of our status as a REIT. Our board of directors has waived this provision in connection with SL Green's purchase of our shares. We have also granted waivers to two other purchasers in connection with their purchase of our shares in a previous private placement. These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. The tax on prohibited transactions will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing mortgage loans, that would be treated as sales for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A REIT's net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were to sell or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial for us. It may be possible to reduce the impact of the prohibited transaction tax by engaging in securitization transactions treated as sales through one or more of our TRSs, subject to certain limitations as described below. To the extent that we engage in such activities through one or more TRSs, the income associated with such activities may be subject to full corporate income tax. The "taxable mortgage pool" rules may limit the manner in which we effect future securitizations and may subject us to U.S. federal income tax and increase the tax liability of our stockholders. Certain of our current and future securitizations, such as our CDOs, could be considered to result in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a REIT, so long as we or another private subsidiary REIT own 100% of the equity interests in a taxable mortgage pool, our qualification as a REIT would not be adversely affected by the characterization of the securitization as a taxable mortgage pool. We would generally be precluded, however, from holding equity interests in such securitizations through our operating partnership (unless held through a private subsidiary REIT), selling to outside investors equity interests in such securitizations or from selling any debt securities issued in connection with such securitizations that might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes. These limitations will preclude us from using certain techniques to maximize our returns from securitization transactions. Furthermore, we are taxable at the highest corporate income tax rate on a portion of the income arising from a taxable mortgage pool that is allocable to the percentage of our shares held by "disqualified organizations," which are generally certain cooperatives, governmental entities and tax-exempt organizations that are exempt from unrelated business taxable income. We expect that disqualified organizations will own our shares from time to time. 46 In addition, if we realize excess inclusion income and allocate it to stockholders, this income cannot be offset by net operating losses of our stockholders. If the stockholder is a tax-exempt entity and not a disqualified organization, then this income would be fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income under Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. If the stockholder is a foreign person, it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding on this. Nominees or other broker/dealers who hold our stock on behalf of disqualified organizations are subject to tax at the highest corporate income tax rate on a portion of our excess inclusion income allocable to the stock held on behalf of disqualified organizations. If the stockholder is a REIT, a regulated investment company, or RIC, common trust fund, or other pass-through entity, its allocable share of our excess inclusion income could be considered excess inclusion income of such entity and such entity will be subject to tax at the highest corporate tax rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to their owners that are disqualified organizations. Accordingly, such investors should be aware that a portion of our income may be considered excess inclusion income. Finally, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, our taxable mortgage pool securitizations will be treated as separate taxable corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We may be unable to generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses and to pay distributions to our stockholders. As a REIT, we are generally required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and not including net capital gains) each year to our stockholders. To qualify for the tax benefits accorded to REITs, we have and intend to continue to pay quarterly distributions and to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts such that we distribute all or substantially all our net taxable income each year, subject to certain adjustments. However, our ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the event of a downturn in our operating results and financial performance or unanticipated declines in the value of our asset portfolio, we may be unable to declare or pay quarterly distributions or make distributions to our stockholders. The timing and amount of distributions are in the sole discretion of our board of directors, which considers, among other factors, our earnings, financial condition, debt service obligations and applicable debt covenants, REIT qualification requirements and other tax considerations and capital expenditure requirements as our board may deem relevant from time to time. Although our use of TRSs may be able to partially mitigate the impact of meeting the requirements necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT, our ownership of and relationship with our TRSs will be limited and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT qualification and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS generally may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT's assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis. Our TRSs, including GKK Trading Corp. and GIT Trading Corp., will pay U.S. federal, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution to us but will not be required to be distributed to us. We anticipate that the aggregate value of TRS securities owned by us will be less than 20% of the value of our total assets (including such TRS securities). Furthermore, we will monitor the value of our respective investments in our 47 TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the rule that no more than 20% of the value of a REIT's assets may consist of TRS securities (which is applied at the end of each calendar quarter). In addition, we will scrutinize all of our transactions with our TRSs for the purpose of ensuring that they are entered into on arm's-length terms in order to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. The value of the securities that we hold in our TRSs may not be subject to precise valuation. Accordingly, there can be no complete assurance that we will be able to comply with the 20% limitation discussed above or avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above. Risks Related to Our Agreement and Plan of Merger with American Financial The market price of our common stock and our earnings per share may decline as a result of the merger. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the merger if we do not achieve the perceived benefits of the merger as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts or stockholders, or if the effect of the merger on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts or stockholders. In addition, either the failure to achieve expected benefits or unanticipated costs relating to the mergers could reduce our future earnings per share. There may be unexpected delays in the consummation of the merger, which could impact our ability to timely achieve cost savings associated with the merger. The merger is expected to close on or about March 31, 2008. However, certain events may delay the consummation of the merger including satisfying the closing conditions to which the mergers are subject, and confirming the closings, acquisition financings, and certain property sales. There can be no assurance that these transactions will close timely. If the merger does not occur, we may incur payment obligations to American Financial and our stock price may decline If the merger agreement is terminated under specified circumstances, we would be required to pay American Financial, an amount equal to $14.0 million. The merger is subject to customary conditions to closing. If any condition to the merger is not satisfied or, if permissible, waived, the merger will not be completed. In addition, we or American Financial may terminate the merger agreement in certain specified circumstances. If we do not complete the merger, the market price of our common shares may decline to the extent that the current market prices of those shares reflect a market assumption that the merger will be completed. Gramercy has diverted significant management resources in an effort to complete the merger and is subject to restrictions contained in the merger agreement on the conduct of its business. If the merger is not completed, we will have incurred significant costs, including the diversion of management resources, for which it will have received little or no benefit. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of American Financial, our business and earnings may be negatively affected. The merger with American Financial will involve the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. Successful integration of the operations of American Financial will depend primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, system procedures, and properties, and to eliminate redundancies and costs, and on our external manager's ability to integrate personnel. The merger will also pose other risks commonly associated with similar transactions, including unanticipated liabilities, unexpected costs and the diversion of management's attention to the integration of the operations of American Financial. We cannot ensure that we will be able to integrate American Financial's operations without encountering difficulties, including, but not limited to, the loss of key employees, the disruption of its respective ongoing businesses or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, 48 procedures and policies. Estimated cost savings are projected to come from various areas that we have identified through the due diligence and integration planning process. If we have difficulties with any of these integrations, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect to result from the merger, and this may hurt our business and earnings. In addition, we may experience greater than expected costs or difficulties relating to the integration of the business of American Financial and/or may not realize expected cost savings from the merger. The market price of our common stock after the merger may be affected by factors different from those affecting our common stock currently. Our business and American Financial's business are different, and accordingly, the results of operations and the market price of our common stock may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the results of operations and the market price of our common stock. A significant portion of American Financial's properties are leased to financial institutions, making us more economically vulnerable in the event of a downturn in the banking industry after the completion of the merger. Upon the closing of the merger, we expect that a significant portion of our revenue will be derived from net leases to financial institutions. Individual banks, as well as the banking industry in general, may be adversely affected by negative economic and market conditions throughout the United States or in the local economies in which regional or community banks operate, including negative conditions caused by the recent disruptions in the financial markets. In addition, changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws, including interest rate policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, may have an adverse impact on banks' loan portfolios and allowances for loan losses. As a result, we may experience higher rates of lease default or terminations in the event of a downturn in the banking industry than we would if our tenant base was more diversified. The portfolio we will acquire in connection with the merger of American Financial includes certain tenants that represent a significant portion of the revenues generated by such portfolio and failure of these tenants to perform their obligations or renew their leases upon expiration may adversely affect our cash flow and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2007, Bank of America, N.A. and Wachovia Bank, N.A. represented approximately 36% and 15%, respectively, of the rental income of American Financial's portfolio and occupied approximately 43% and 19%, respectively, of American Financial's total rentable square feet. We will acquire the leases with Bank of America, N.A. and Wachovia Bank, N.A. upon the closing of the merger. After the completion of the merger, we expect that Bank of America, N.A. and Wachovia Bank, N.A. will represent a significant portion of our portfolio's rental income and total rentable square feet. The default, financial distress or insolvency of Bank of America N.A. or Wachovia Bank, N.A., or the failure of any of these parties to renew their leases with us upon expiration, could cause interruptions in the receipt of lease revenue from these tenants and/or result in vacancies, which would reduce our revenue and increase operating costs until the affected properties are leased, and could decrease the ultimate value of the affected properties upon sale. We may be unable to lease the vacant property at a comparable lease rate or at all, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition as well as our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Rising operating expenses relating to the properties we will acquire in connection with the merger of American Financial could reduce our cash flow and funds available for future distributions. The properties we will acquire in connection with the merger of American Financial are subject to operating risks common to real estate in general, any or all of which may negatively affect us. If the properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service, tenant improvements, leasing commissions and other capital expenditures, we may have to borrow additional 49 amounts to cover these expenses. This could harm our cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The use of our available liquidity to finance our acquisition of American Financial could affect our ability to make investments consistent with our investment objective. We will utilize a significant amount of our available liquidity to finance our acquisition of American Financial. In addition, we cannot be certain that sufficient funding or capital will be available to us after completion of the merger on terms that are acceptable to us. If we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms after completion of the merger, we may not be able to finance our existing portfolio or new investments in a manner that will generate attractive, risk-adjusted returns. Our failure to accomplish this would materially and adversely affect us. We will use a significant amount of short-term debt to finance our acquisition of American Financial, which may subject us to an increased risk of loss. We will use a significant amount of short-term debt to finance our acquisition of American Financial. Our ability to repay such debt at maturity may depend on our ability to refinance all or a portion of such debt. Our ability to refinance such debt will be affected by several factors, including the level of available interest rates at the time, the value of the related collateral and our equity in such collateral, our financial condition, the tax laws and general economic conditions at the time. A high interest rate environment may make it more difficult for us to accomplish a refinancing and may lead to default and foreclosure on certain of our assets. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information This report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking expressions such as "may," "will," "should," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "intend," "plan," "project," "continue," or any negative or other variations on such expressions. Forward-looking statements include information concerning possible or assumed future results of our operations, including any forecasts, projections, plans and objectives for future operations. Although we believe that our plans, intentions and expectations as reflected in or suggested by those forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that the plans, intentions or expectations will be achieved. We have listed below some important risks, uncertainties and contingencies which could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the forward-looking statements we make in this report. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies include, but are not limited to, the following: •the success or failure of our efforts to implement our current business strategy; •economic conditions generally and in the commercial finance and real estate markets specifically; •the performance and financial condition of borrowers and corporate customers; •the actions of our competitors and our ability to respond to those actions; •the cost of our capital, which depends in part on our asset quality, the nature of our relationships with our lenders and other capital providers, our business prospects and outlook and general market conditions; •the availability, terms and deployment of short-term and long-term capital; •availability of qualified personnel; 50 •availability of investment opportunities on real estate-related and other securities; •the adequacy of our cash reserves and working capital; •unanticipated increases in financing and other costs, including a rise in interest rates; •the timing of cash flows, if any, from our investments; •risks of structured finance investments; •changes in governmental regulations, tax rates and similar matters; •legislative and regulatory changes (including changes to laws governing the taxation of REITs or the exemptions from registration as an investment company); •environmental and/or safety requirements; •our ability to satisfy complex rules in order for us to qualify as a REIT, for federal income tax purposes and qualify for our exemption under the Investment Company Act, our operating partnership's ability to satisfy the rules in order for it to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to qualify as REITs and certain of our subsidiaries to qualify as taxable REIT subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes, and our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to operate effectively within the limitations imposed by these rules; •GKK Manager LLC remaining as our manager; •competition with other companies; •the continuing threat of terrorist attacks on the national, regional and local economies; •certain factors relating to our acquisition of American Financial including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of closing conditions to the transaction, the timing of the completion of the merger, the ability to integrate American Financial's business and to achieve expected synergies, operating efficiencies and other benefits, or within expected cost projections, and to preserve the goodwill of the acquired business, and the amount of expenses and other liabilities incurred or accrued between the date of the signing of the merger agreement and date of closing of the merger; and •other factors discussed under Item IA Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We assume no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. In evaluating forward-looking statements, you should consider these risks and uncertainties, together with the other risks described from time-to-time in our reports and documents which are filed with the SEC, and you should not place undue reliance on those statements. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report may include additional factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of December 31, 2007, we did not have any unresolved comments with the Staff of the SEC. 51 