ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Investments Our future growth will depend upon our ability to acquire and lease properties in a competitive real estate business. Our future growth will depend, in large part, upon our ability to acquire and lease properties. In order to grow we need to continue to acquire and finance investment properties and sell non-core properties. The acquisition and sale of investment properties is subject to competitive pressures from many market participants and we expect strong competition from other REITs, businesses, individuals, fiduciary accounts and plans, as well as other entities engaged in real estate investment and financing. Many of these competitors are larger than we are and have access to greater financial resources. Such competition may limit our ability to acquire properties and grow or may result in a higher cost to us for properties we wish to purchase. If we cannot obtain additional capital, our ability to make acquisitions and lease properties will be limited. We are subject to risks associated with debt and capital stock issuances, and such issuances may have consequences to holders of our common and preferred stock. Our ability to make acquisitions and lease properties will depend, in large part, upon our ability to raise additional capital. If we were to raise additional capital through the issuance of equity securities, we could dilute the interests of holders of our common stock. Our Board may authorize the issuance of additional classes or series of preferred stock which may have rights that could dilute, or otherwise adversely affect, the interest of holders of our common stock. We intend to incur additional indebtedness in the future, which may include an additional corporate credit facility. Such indebtedness could also have other important consequences to holders of the notes and holders of our common and preferred stock, including subjecting us to covenants restricting our operating flexibility, increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements, requiring the use of a portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements, and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. The competitive pressures we face as a result of operating in a highly competitive market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We face significant competition with respect to our acquisition and origination of assets from many other companies, including other REITs, insurance companies, private investment funds, hedge funds, specialty finance companies and other investors. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, there is significant competition on a national, regional and local level with respect to property management services and in commercial real estate services generally, and we are subject to competition from large national and multi-national firms as well as local or regional firms that offer similar services to ours. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and operational resources, larger customer bases, and more established relationships with their customers and suppliers than we do. The competitive pressures we face, if not effectively managed, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive origination and investment opportunities and therefore may not be able to identify and pursue opportunities that are consistent with our objectives. Competition may limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us. It may also result in higher prices, lower yields and a narrower spread of yields over our borrowing costs, making it more difficult for us to acquire new investments on attractive terms. In addition, competition for desirable investments could delay our investment in desirable assets, which may in turn reduce our earnings per share and negatively affect our ability to declare and make distributions to our stockholders. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are dependent on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. We rely on a small number of persons who comprise our existing senior management team and our Board to implement our business and investment strategies. While we have entered into employment and/or retention agreements with certain members of our senior management team, they may nevertheless cease to provide services to us at any time. The loss of services of any of our key management personnel or directors or significant numbers of other employees, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel or directors in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business. Quarterly results may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future quarterly performance. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate; therefore, you should not rely on past quarterly results to be indicative of our performance in future quarters. Factors that could cause quarterly operating results to fluctuate include, among others, variations in our investment origination volume, impairments, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, tenant defaults and delinquencies and general economic conditions. We are required to make a number of judgments in applying accounting policies, and different estimates and assumptions in the application of these policies could result in changes to our reporting of financial condition and results of operations. Various estimates are used in the preparation of our financial statements, including estimates related to asset and liability valuations (or potential impairments) and various receivables. Often these estimates require the use of market data values which may be difficult to assess, as well as estimates of future performance or receivables collectability which may be difficult to accurately predict. While we have identified those accounting policies that are considered critical and have procedures in place to facilitate the associated judgments, different assumptions in the application of these policies could result in material changes to our financial condition and results of operations. We utilize, and intend to continue to utilize, leverage which may limit our financial flexibility in the future. We make acquisitions and operate our business in part through the utilization of leverage pursuant to loan agreements with various financial institutions. These loan agreements contain financial covenants that restrict our operations. These financial covenants, as well as any future financial covenants we may enter into through further loan agreements, could inhibit our financial flexibility in the future and prevent distributions to stockholders. We may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses due to these risks. We are highly dependent on information systems and third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems, some of which are provided by third parties. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Lack of diversification in number of investments increases our dependence on individual investments. We own a 50% interest in a joint venture with Garrison in which nearly 100% of the properties in the portfolio are leased to Bank of America. The cash flow generated from these properties represents a significant 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS portion of our rental income. If Bank of America defaults or is otherwise unable to perform under its lease obligations, it would negatively impact our cash flows and overall financial condition. Additionally, because Bank of America operates in the financial services industry, any disruptions in the financial markets or downturns in the financial services industry could cause us to experience higher rates of lease default or terminations than we otherwise would if our tenant base was more diversified. If we acquire other property interests that are similarly large in relation to our overall size, our portfolio could become even more concentrated, increasing the risk of loss to stockholders if a default or other problem arises. Alternatively, property sales may reduce the aggregate amount of our property investment portfolio in value or number. As a result, our portfolio could become concentrated in larger assets, thereby reducing the benefits of diversification by geography, property type, tenancy or other measures. We may never reach sufficient size to achieve diversity in our portfolio. We are presently a comparatively small net leased company with a limited number of warehouse and industrial properties and a proportionally large investment in the Bank of America Portfolio, resulting in a portfolio that lacks geographic and tenant diversity. While we intend to endeavor to grow and diversify our portfolio through additional property acquisitions, we may never reach a significant size to achieve true portfolio diversity. We expect to lease a significant portion of our real estate to middle-market businesses which may be more susceptible to adverse market conditions. We expect that a substantial number of our properties will be leased to middle-market businesses that generally have less financial and other resources than larger businesses. Middle-market companies are more likely to be adversely affected by a downturn in their respective businesses or in the regional, national or international economy. As such, negative market conditions affecting existing or potential middle-market tenants, or the industries in which they operate, could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic changes in geographic areas where our properties are concentrated. Adverse conditions in the areas where our properties are located (including business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors) and local real estate conditions (such as oversupply of, or reduced demand for, office, industrial or retail properties) may have an adverse effect on the value of our properties. A material decline in the demand or the ability of tenants to pay rent for office, industrial or retail space in these geographic areas may result in a material decline in our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We may not be able to relet or renew leases at the properties held by us on terms favorable to us or at all. We are subject to risks that upon expiration or earlier termination of the leases for space located at our properties the space may not be relet or, if relet, the terms of the renewal or reletting (including the costs of required renovations or concessions to tenants) may be less favorable than current lease terms. Any of these situations may result in extended periods where there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by a property. If we are unable to relet or renew leases for all or substantially all of the spaces at these properties, if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected, if our reserves for these purposes prove inadequate, or if we are required to make significant renovations or concessions to tenants as part of the renewal or reletting process, we will experience a reduction in net income and may be required to reduce or eliminate distributions to our stockholders. The bankruptcy, insolvency or diminished creditworthiness of our tenants under their leases or delays by our tenants in making rental payments could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. We lease our properties to tenants, and we receive rents from our tenants during the terms of their respective leases. A tenant’s ability to pay rent is often initially determined by the creditworthiness of the tenant. However, if a tenant’s credit deteriorates, the tenant may default on its obligations under its lease and 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS the tenant may also become bankrupt. The bankruptcy or insolvency of our tenants or other failure to pay is likely to adversely affect the income produced by our real estate investments. Any bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of our tenants could bar us from collecting pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or its property, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from the bankruptcy court. A tenant bankruptcy could delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. If a tenant files for bankruptcy, we may not be able to evict the tenant solely because of such bankruptcy or failure to pay. A court, however, may authorize a tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. In such a case, our claim against the tenant for unpaid, future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent owed under the lease. In addition, certain amounts paid to us within 90 days prior to the tenant’s bankruptcy filing could be required to be returned to the tenant’s bankruptcy estate. In any event, it is highly unlikely that a bankrupt or insolvent tenant would pay in full amounts it owes us under its lease. In other circumstances, where a tenant’s financial condition has become impaired, we may agree to partially or wholly terminate the lease in advance of the termination date in consideration for a lease termination fee that is likely less than the agreed rental amount. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. Any unsecured claim we hold against a bankrupt entity may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. We may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims, which would harm our financial condition. Certain of our properties, including a substantial majority of those in our Bank of America Portfolio joint venture, are leased to banks that are not eligible to be debtors under the federal bankruptcy code, but would be subject to the liquidation and insolvency provisions of applicable banking laws and regulations. If the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation were appointed as receiver of a banking tenant because of a tenant’s insolvency, we would become an unsecured creditor of the tenant and be entitled to share with the other unsecured non-depositor creditors in the tenant’s assets on an equal basis after payment to the depositors of their claims. In this event, we may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to our stockholders at historical levels or at all. If a sale leaseback transaction is re-characterized in a tenant’s bankruptcy proceeding, our financial condition could be adversely affected. We may enter into sale leaseback transactions, whereby we would purchase and then lease a property back to the seller. In the event of the bankruptcy of a tenant, a transaction structured as a sale leaseback may be re-characterized as either a financing or a joint venture, either of which outcomes could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow. If the sale leaseback were re-characterized as a financing, we might not be considered the owner of the property, and as a result would have the status of a creditor in relation to the tenant. In that event, we would no longer have the right to sell or encumber our ownership interest in the property. Instead, we would have a claim against the tenant for the amounts owed under the lease, with the claim arguably secured by the property. The tenant/debtor might have the ability to propose a plan restructuring the term, interest rate and amortization schedule of its outstanding balance. If confirmed by the bankruptcy court, we could be bound by the new terms, and prevented from foreclosing our lien on the property. If the sale leaseback were re-characterized as a joint venture, our tenants and we could be treated as co-venturers with regard to the property. As a result, we could be held liable, under some circumstances, for debts incurred by the tenants relating to the property. Lease defaults or terminations or landlord-tenant disputes may adversely reduce our income from our leased property portfolio. Lease defaults or terminations by one or more of our significant tenants may reduce our revenues unless a default is cured or a suitable replacement tenant is found promptly. In addition, disputes may arise between the landlord and tenant that result in the tenant withholding rent payments, possibly for an extended period. These disputes may lead to litigation or other legal procedures to secure payment of the rent withheld or to evict the tenant. In other circumstances, a tenant may have a contractual right to abate or suspend rent payments. Even without such right, a tenant might determine to do so. Any of these situations may result in 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS extended periods during which there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by the property. If this were to occur, it could adversely affect our results of operations. We could be adversely affected by various facts and events related to our properties over which we have limited or no control. We could be adversely affected by various facts and events over which we have limited or no control, such as (i) oversupply of space and changes in market rental rates; (ii) economic or physical decline of the areas where the properties are located; and (iii) deterioration of the physical condition of our properties. Negative market conditions or adverse events affecting our existing or potential tenants, or the industries in which they operate, could have an adverse impact on our ability to attract new tenants, re-lease space, collect rent or renew leases, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition. Inflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although inflation has not materially impacted our results of operations in the recent past, increased inflation could have a more pronounced negative impact on any variable rate debt we incur in the future and on our results of operations. During times when inflation is greater than increases in rent, the contracted rent increases called for under our leases may be unable to keep pace with the rate of inflation. Likewise, even though our triple-net leases generally reduce our exposure to rising property expenses resulting from inflation, substantial inflationary pressures and increased costs may have an adverse impact on our tenants, which may adversely affect the tenants’ ability to pay rent. Our net leases may require us to pay property-related expenses that are not the obligations of our tenants. Under the terms of the majority of our net leases, in addition to satisfying their rent obligations, our tenants are responsible for the payment of real estate taxes, insurance and ordinary maintenance and repairs. However, pursuant to certain of our current leases and leases we may assume or enter into in the future, we may be required to pay certain expenses, such as the costs of environmental liabilities, roof and structural repairs, insurance, certain non-structural repairs and maintenance and other costs and expenses for which insurance proceeds or other means of recovery are not available. If one or more of our properties incur significant expenses under the terms of the leases, such property, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected and the amount of cash available to meet expenses and to make distributions to our stockholders may be reduced. We may be required to reimburse tenants for overpayments of estimated operating expenses. Under certain of our leases, including the lease for the Bank of American Portfolio, tenants pay us as additional rent their proportionate share of the costs we incur to manage, operate and maintain the buildings and properties where they rent space. These leases often limit the types and amounts of expenses we can pass through to our tenants and allow the tenants to audit and contest our determination of the operating expenses they are required to pay. Given the complexity of certain additional rent calculations, tenant audit rights under large portfolio leases can remain unresolved for several years. The tenant under the Bank of America Portfolio lease, for example, is still auditing certain categories of operating expenses for the 2007 and subsequent lease years. If as a result of a tenant audit it is determined that we have collected more additional rent than we are permitted to collect under a lease, we must refund the excess amount back to the tenant and, sometimes, also reimburse the tenant for its audit costs. Such unexpected reimbursement payments could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Net leases may not result in fair market lease rates over time, which could negatively impact our income and reduce the amount of funds available to make distributions to our stockholders. The vast majority of our rental income comes from net leases, which generally provide the tenant greater discretion in using the leased property than ordinary property leases, such as the right to freely sublease the property, to make alterations in the leased premises and to terminate the lease prior to its expiration under specified circumstances. Furthermore, net leases typically have longer lease terms and, thus, there is an increased risk that contractual rental increases in future years will fail to result in fair market rental rates during those years. As a result, our income and distributions to our stockholders could be lower than they would otherwise be if we did not engage in net leases. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS Real estate investments are not as liquid as other types of assets, which may reduce economic returns to investors. Real estate investments are not as liquid as other types of investments. In addition, the instruments that we purchase in connection with privately negotiated transactions are not registered under the relevant securities laws, resulting in a prohibition against their transfer, sale, pledge or other disposition except in a transaction that is exempt from the registration requirements of, or is otherwise in accordance with, those laws. As a result, our ability to sell under-performing assets in our portfolio or respond to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited. Actions of our joint venture partners could negatively impact our performance. We may, from time to time and as we have done in the past, co-invest with third parties through various arrangements, including, but not limited to, partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other entities, or acquire non-controlling interests in, or share responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. With such investments, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding that property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals. These investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Consequently, actions by such partner, co-tenant or co-venturer might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. We may continue to acquire and/or redevelop properties through joint ventures, limited liability companies, partnerships or other entities with other persons or entities when warranted by the circumstances. Such partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present with other methods of investment in real estate. We generally will seek to maintain sufficient control of our partnerships, limited liability companies, joint ventures or other entities to permit us to achieve our business objectives; however, we may not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay distributions on, and the market price of, our securities. An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the policies on our properties could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties. Under the terms and conditions of the leases currently in force on our properties, tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons, air, water, land or property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted on the properties, except for claims arising from the negligence or intentional misconduct of us or our agents. Additionally, tenants are generally required, at the tenants’ expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies issued by companies holding general policyholder ratings of at least “A” as set forth in the most current issue of Best’s Insurance Guide. Insurance policies for property damage are generally in amounts not less than the full replacement cost of the improvements less slab, foundations, supports and other customarily excluded improvements and insure against all perils of fire, extended coverage, vandalism, malicious mischief and special extended perils (“all risk,” as that term is used in the insurance industry). Insurance policies are generally obtained by the tenant providing general liability coverage varying between $1.0 million and $10.0 million depending on the facts and circumstances surrounding the tenant and the industry in which it operates. These policies include liability coverage for bodily injury and property damage arising out of the ownership, use, occupancy or maintenance of the properties and all of their appurtenant areas. To the extent that losses are uninsured or underinsured, we could be subject to lost capital and revenue on those properties. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS Early termination of our asset management agreement could result in certain unexpected costs. We have entered into a Management Agreement with KBS to manage a portfolio of properties through December 31, 2016. The Management Agreement may be terminated early by KBS following the occurrence of certain events as defined in the Management Agreement. There can be no assurance a termination will not occur notwithstanding our efforts. Early termination of the Management Agreement would result in unexpected expenses, including severance fees, and the management fees and payments to be received would cease, thereby reducing our expected revenues, which could harm our business and results of operations. We are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with operating our asset management business. We will encounter risks and difficulties as we operate our asset management business. In order to achieve our goals as an asset manager, we must: • actively manage the assets in such portfolios in order to realize targeted performance; and • create incentives for our management and professional staff to develop and operate the asset management business. If we do not successfully operate our asset management business to achieve the investment returns that we or the market anticipates, our operations may be adversely impacted. We are exposed to litigation risks in our role as asset manager. Our role as asset manager for a portfolio of properties for KBS exposes us to litigation risks. In this role, we make asset management and other decisions which could result in adverse financial impacts to third parties. These parties may pursue legal action against us as a result of these decisions, the outcomes of which cannot be certain and may materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We may enter into derivative or hedging contracts that could expose us to contingent liabilities and certain risks and costs in the future. Part of our investment strategy may involve entering into derivative or hedging contracts that could require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances, such as the early termination of the derivative agreement caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the derivative contract. The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These economic losses would be reflected in our financial results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Further, the cost of using derivative or hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our derivative or hedging activity and thus increase our related costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, in many cases, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS be assured that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the “Sarbanes Oxley Act”, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, new Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and NYSE rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We will face particular challenges in maintaining and reporting on our internal controls over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls and requires that we have our system of internal controls audited. If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or stockholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, acquisition targets may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of their internal controls. The development of the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition. If we identify any material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may need to take costly steps to implement improved controls and may be subject to sanctions for failure to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Such remedial costs or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Further, we would be required to disclose any material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting, and we would receive an adverse opinion on our internal controls over financial reporting from our independent auditors. These factors could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Risks Related to Our Legacy Businesses Our financial information reflects discontinued operations, in addition to our current business operations, and does not provide a meaningful comparison for period over period results. As a result of our disposition and deconsolidation in 2013 of certain legacy business operations, our financial results for the year do not just report the results of our ongoing net lease and asset management operations, but also reflect revenues and expenses from discontinued operations. Our business and operations have changed substantially over the past two years, and you should not rely on period over period comparisons of our company, or revenues from discontinued operations, as an indication of future results. We are exposed to litigation and other risks from our prior roles as collateral manager and sub-special servicer for our 2005, 2006 and 2007 collateralized debt obligations. Prior to March 2013, certain of our affiliates acted as collateral manager and sub-special servicer for our 2005, 2006 and 2007 collateralized debt obligations (“CDOs” and, collectively, the “Gramercy CDOs”). In these roles, we made investment, loan work-out and other decisions which could result in adverse financial 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS impacts to third-parties. In particular, the discretion that we exercised in managing the collateral for the Gramercy CDOs could result in a liability due to inherent uncertainties surrounding the course of action that will result in the best long term results with respect to such collateral and investments. This risk could be increased due to the affiliated nature of our roles. In such roles, we could be subject to legal action as a result of these decisions, the outcomes of which cannot be certain and may materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. If we were found liable for our actions as collateral manager or sub-special servicer and we were required to pay significant damages, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Claims may arise under an indemnification provided by us to the trustee of our 2005 CDO and 2006 CDO in connection with note cancellations. Our subsidiary that acted as collateral manager for the Gramercy CDOs provided separate limited indemnities to the trustee of our 2005 CDO and 2006 CDO in connection with CDO note cancellations we undertook in 2011 in accordance with the operative documents of each CDO. These cancellations were undertaken to reduce the total debt owed by our 2005 CDO and our 2006 CDO and improve their compliance with certain overcollateralization tests. Payments made by us in the future, if any, under these indemnities would reduce our liquidity available for general corporate purposes and investments. Our retained interests in our CDOs are highly speculative; as a result, there will be uncertainty as to the value of these investments. We retain interests in certain subordinate bonds, preferred shares and ordinary shares in the Gramercy CDOs. These retained interests, or the Retained CDO Bonds, are highly speculative and subject to high fluctuations in purported value. The fair value of the Retained CDO Bonds, which are not publicly traded, may not be readily determinable. We value the Retained CDO Bonds quarterly. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for the Retained CDO Bonds existed. There is no guarantee that we will realize any proceeds from our Retained CDO Bonds, or what the timing of those proceeds might be, and the value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of the Retained CDO Bonds were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. Our Retained CDO Bonds could generate “phantom” income. Following the sale of the collateral manager agreements in March 2013, we continue to own the Retained CDO Bonds, which could continue to generate taxable income for us despite the fact that we will not receive cash distributions on our equity and subordinated note holdings from the Retained CDO Bonds until overcollateralization tests are met, if at all. Additionally, following the sale of the collateral manager agreements, we do not control or have influence over the factors that most directly affect the overcollateralization and interest coverage tests of the respective Retained CDO Bonds. Should these Retained CDO Bonds continue to generate taxable income with no corresponding receipt of cash flow, our taxable income would continue to be recognized on each underlying investment in the relevant CDO. We would continue to be required to distribute 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding net capital gain) from these transactions to continue to qualify as a REIT, despite the fact that we may not receive cash distributions on our equity and subordinated note holdings from the Retained CDO Bonds. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Our real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property. Real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property, including: • acts of God, including earthquakes floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses; • acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks; 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS • adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions, including the credit and securitization markets; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; • takings by condemnation or eminent domain; • real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of or a reduction in demand for real estate space in the area; • the perceptions of tenants and prospective tenants of the convenience, attractiveness and safety of our properties; • competition from comparable properties; • the occupancy rate of our properties; • the ability to collect on a timely basis all rent from tenants; • the effects of any bankruptcies or insolvencies of major tenants; • the expense of re-leasing space; • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funding; • the impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws; and • cost of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act. If any of these or similar events occur, it may reduce our return from an affected property or investment and reduce or eliminate our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the market for our securities, the industry in which we conduct our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may harm our results of operations and the stockholders’ investment. We cannot assure the stockholders that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the U.S. or U.S. businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact the property underlying our asset-based securities or the securities markets in general. Losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets and economy. Adverse economic conditions could harm the value of our properties, or the securities markets in general which could harm our operating results and revenues and may result in increased volatility of the value of our securities. Liability relating to environmental matters may impact the value of the properties that we may acquire or underlying our investments. Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on its property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. If we fail to disclose environmental issues, we could also be liable to a buyer or lessee of a property. There may be environmental problems associated with our properties which we were unaware of at the time of acquisition. The presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect our ability to sell real estate, including the affected property, or borrow using real estate as collateral. The presence of hazardous substances, if any, on our properties may cause us to incur substantial remediation costs, thus harming our financial condition. In addition, although our leases will generally require our tenants to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising from a tenant’s activities on the property, we nonetheless would be subject to strict liability by virtue of our ownership 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS interest for environmental liabilities created by such tenants, and we cannot ensure the stockholders that any tenants we might have would satisfy their indemnification obligations under the applicable sales agreement or lease. The discovery of material environmental liabilities attached to such properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Discovery of previously undetected environmentally hazardous conditions, including mold or asbestos, may lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem could adversely affect our operating results. Under various U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. The costs of removal or remediation could be substantial. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. Environmental laws provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. Certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of and exposure to hazardous substances, including asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. The cost of defending against claims of liability, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims related to any contaminated property could materially adversely affect our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for distribution to our security holders. We may incur significant costs in complying with various federal, state and local laws, regulations and covenants that are applicable to our properties and, in particular, costs associated with complying with regulations such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 may result in unanticipated expenses. The properties in our portfolio are subject to various covenants and U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulatory requirements, including permitting and licensing requirements. Local regulations, including municipal or local ordinances, zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers may restrict our use of our properties and may require us to obtain approval from local officials or community standards organizations at any time with respect to our properties, including prior to acquiring a property or when undertaking renovations of any of our existing properties. Among other things, these restrictions may relate to fire and safety, seismic or hazardous material abatement requirements. There can be no assurance that existing laws and regulatory policies will not adversely affect us or the timing or cost of any future acquisitions or renovations, or that additional regulations will not be adopted that increase such delays or result in additional costs. Our growth strategy may be affected by our ability to obtain permits, licenses and zoning relief. Our failure to obtain such permits, licenses and zoning relief or to comply with applicable laws could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, all places of public accommodation are required to meet certain U.S. federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws may also require modifications to our properties, or restrict further renovations of the properties, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA or other legislation could result in an order to correct any non-complying feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures. We do not conduct audits or investigations of all of these properties to determine their compliance and we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ADA or other legislation, then we could be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA or other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, ability to satisfy debt service obligations and our ability to make distributions to our security holders could be adversely affected. 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Related to Our Taxation as a REIT Our failure to qualify as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduced cash available for stockholders. We intend to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our continued qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution and stockholder ownership requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy some of the asset tests depends upon the fair market values of our assets, some of which are not able to be precisely determined and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Additionally, if either of our private REITs failed to qualify as a REIT, we would likely fail to qualify as a REIT. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, and certain statutory relief provisions were not available, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. Unless entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will no longer be required to make distributions. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and it would adversely affect the value of our common stock. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may be may be subject to the corporate alternative minimum tax on our items of tax preference if our alternative minimum taxable income exceeds our taxable income. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity. In order to maintain our REIT status and to meet the REIT distribution requirements, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis or sell assets, even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings or sales. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our net taxable income each year, excluding capital gains. In addition, we will be subject to corporate income tax to the extent we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income including any net capital gain. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the requirements of the Code for REITs and to minimize or eliminate our corporate income tax obligation to the extent consistent with our business objectives. Our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to fund required distributions as a result of differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and the recognition of income for federal income tax purposes (including, without limitation, taxable income from our Retained CDO Bonds that do not currently produce cash distributions), or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt service or amortization payments. The insufficiency of our cash flows to cover our distribution requirements could have an adverse impact on our ability to raise short- and long-term debt or sell equity securities in order to fund distributions required to maintain our REIT status. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. Further, amounts distributed will not be available to fund investment activities. We expect to fund our investments by raising equity capital and through borrowings from financial institutions and the debt capital markets. If we fail to obtain debt or equity capital in the future, it could limit our ability to grow, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. In January 2011, an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Code occurred, which limits our ability to utilize our net operating losses and net capital losses against future taxable income, increasing our dividend distribution requirement which could adversely affect our liquidity. We have substantial net operating and net capital loss carry forwards which we have used to offset our tax and/or distribution requirements. In January 2011, an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Code occurred, which limits our ability to use these losses. In general, an “ownership change” occurs if there is a change in ownership of more than 50% of our common stock during any cumulative three year period. For this purpose, determinations of ownership changes are generally limited to shareholders deemed to own 5% or more of our common stock. Such a change in ownership may be triggered by regular trading 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS activity in our common stock, which is generally beyond our control. While we believe we have not had an “ownership change” since January 2011, as a result of our January 2011 “ownership change,” sections 382 and 383 impose an annual limit on the amount of net operating loss and net capital loss carryforward that can be used by us to offset future ordinary taxable income and capital gains, beginning with our 2011 taxable year. Such limitations may increase our dividend distribution requirement, which could adversely affect our liquidity. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The existing REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to hedge our operations. Except to the extent provided by Treasury regulations, any income from a hedging transaction where the instrument hedges interest rate risk on liabilities used to carry or acquire real estate or hedges risk of currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain that would be qualifying income under the 75% or 95% gross income tests will be excluded from gross income for purposes of the 75% and 95% gross income tests. To qualify the preceding sentence, the hedging transaction must be clearly identified as specified in Treasury regulations before the close of the day on which it was acquired, originated or entered into. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. In addition, we must limit our aggregate income from non-qualified hedging transactions, from our provision of services and from other non-qualifying sources, to less than 5% of our annual gross income (determined without regard to gross income from qualified hedging transactions). As a result, we may have to limit our use of certain hedging techniques or implement those hedges through taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRSs”). This could result in greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to incur or could increase the cost of our hedging activities. If we fail to satisfy the 75% or 95% limitations, we could lose our REIT qualification for U.S. federal income tax purposes, unless our failure was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect, and we meet certain other technical requirements. Even if our failure was due to reasonable cause, we might incur a penalty tax. The stock ownership limit imposed by the Code for REITs and our charter may inhibit market activity in our stock and may restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our capital stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year for each taxable year. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by the Board, no person may own more than 9.8% of the aggregate value of the outstanding shares of our stock or more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. The Board may not grant such an exemption to any proposed transferee whose ownership of in excess of 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares or more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock, would result in the termination of our status as a REIT. These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum tax rate applicable to “qualified dividend income” payable to U.S. stockholders that are taxed at individual rates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates on qualified dividend income. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who taxed at individual rates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common stock. 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS The tax on prohibited transactions will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing loans and selling our loans and real estate properties, that may be treated as sales for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s gain from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans and real estate, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were to sell or securitize loans or dispose of loans or real estate in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans or real estate for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans or real estate and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. It may be possible to reduce the impact of the prohibited transaction tax by engaging in securitization transactions treated as sales and loan and real estate dispositions through one or more of our TRSs, subject to certain limitations. Generally, to the extent that we engage in securitizations treated as sales or dispose of loans or real estate through one or more TRSs, the income associated with such activities would be subject to full corporate income tax at standard rates. We may be unable to generate sufficient revenue from operations, operating cash flow or portfolio income to pay our operating expenses, and our operating expenses could rise, diminishing our ability and to pay distributions to our stockholders. As a REIT, we are generally required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and not including net capital gains, each year to our stockholders. To qualify for the tax benefits accorded to REITs, we have and intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts such that we distribute all or substantially all our net taxable income each year, subject to certain adjustments. However, our ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the risk factors described herein. Our ability to make and sustain cash distributions is based on many factors, including the return on our investments, the size of our investment portfolio, operating expense levels, and certain restrictions imposed by Maryland law. Some of the factors are beyond our control and a change in any such factor could affect our ability to pay future dividends. No assurance can be given as to our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. In the event of a downturn in our operating results and financial performance or unanticipated declines in the value of our asset portfolio, we may be unable to declare or pay quarterly distributions or make distributions to our stockholders. The timing and amount of distributions are in the sole discretion of our Board, which considers, among other factors, our earnings, financial condition, debt service obligations and applicable debt covenants, REIT qualification requirements and other tax considerations and capital expenditure requirements as our Board may deem relevant from time to time. Although our use of TRSs may be able to partially mitigate the impact of meeting the requirements necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT, our ownership of and relationship with our TRSs will be limited, and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT qualification and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS generally may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Our TRSs, including GKK Management Co. LLC, GKK Trading Corp., GIT Trading Corp., Whiteface Holdings, LLC, GWF II SPE, LLC, Gramercy Loan Services LLC, GKK Manager LLC and GKK Liquidity LLC, will pay U.S. federal, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS will be available for distribution to us but will not be required to be distributed to us. We anticipate that the aggregate value of TRS securities owned by us will be less than 25% of the value of our total assets (including such TRS securities). Furthermore, we will monitor the value of our respective investments in our TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the rule that no more than 25% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of TRS securities (which is applied at the end of each calendar quarter). In addition, we will scrutinize all of our transactions with our TRSs for the purpose of ensuring that they are entered into on arm’s-length terms in order to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. The value of the securities that we hold in our TRSs may not be subject to precise valuation. Accordingly, there can be no complete assurance that we will be able to comply with the 25%, limitation discussed above or avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock. At any time, the U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation, or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in the U.S. federal income tax laws, regulations or administrative interpretations. If the Operating Partnership failed to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, we would cease to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences. We believe that the Operating Partnership will be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, the Operating Partnership will not be subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including us, will be allocated, and may be required to pay tax with respect to, its share of the Operating Partnership’s income. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS will not challenge the status of the Operating Partnership or any other subsidiary partnership in which we own an interest as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating the Operating Partnership or any such other subsidiary partnership as an entity taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, we would likely cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, the failure of the Operating Partnership or any subsidiary partnerships to qualify as a partnership could cause it to become subject to federal and state corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including us. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price. Under Maryland law, certain “business combinations” between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as: • any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock; or • an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding stock of the corporation. • A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our Board approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. However, in approving a transaction, the board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board. 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS • After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our Board approved by the affirmative vote of at least: • 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation; and • two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or by the interested stockholder’s affiliates or associates, voting together as a single group. The business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. In addition, Maryland law provides that “control shares” of a corporation (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of issued and outstanding “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the corporation’s stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. We have opted out of these provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (the “MGCL”), with respect to its business combination provisions and its control share provisions by resolution of the Board and a provision in our bylaws, respectively. However, in the future the Board may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the MGCL’s business combination provisions, or amend our bylaws and elect to opt in to the MGCL’s control share provisions. Additionally, Title 8, Subtitle 3 of the MGCL permits the Board, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which we do not have. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third-party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the stockholders with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. We may change our investment and operational policies without stockholder consent. We may change our investment and operational policies, including our policies with respect to investments, acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the types of investments described in this filing. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations, all of which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions. Our authorized but unissued preferred stock may prevent a change in our control which could be in the stockholders’ best interests. Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock. Any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders’ interests. In addition, the Board may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock into other classes or series of stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, the Board may establish a class or series of preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case you may be required to pay income taxes in excess of the cash dividends you receive. We may in the future distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and shares of our common stock at the election of each stockholder. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for United States federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to Ownership of Common Stock Future sales of common stock in the public market or the issuance of other equity may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock or other equity-related securities in the public market could depress the market price of our common stock, and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, including: • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results, funds from operations, or FFO, cash flows, liquidity or distributions; • changes in our earnings estimates or those of analysts; • publication of research reports about it or the real estate industry or sector in which we operate; • increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our shares to demand a higher dividend yield; • changes in market valuations of companies similar to us; • adverse market reaction to any securities we may issue or additional debt it incurs in the future; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • actions by institutional stockholders; • speculation in the press or investment community; • continuing high levels of volatility in the credit markets; • the realization of any of the other risk factors included herein; and • general market and economic conditions. The availability and timing of cash distributions is uncertain. We are generally required to distribute to its stockholders at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain, each year in order for us to qualify as a REIT under the Code, which we intend to satisfy through quarterly cash distributions of all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income in such year, subject to certain adjustments. From January 2009 to January 2014 we were prevented from paying dividends to holders of our common stock because we were in arrears in the payment of dividends on our 8.125% Series A cumulative redeemable preferred stock, or Series A Preferred Stock. Although such arrearages have been paid in full recently and we recently reinstituted the payment of a quarterly dividend on our common stock, we have not established a minimum distribution payment level, and our ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by a number of factors. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our Board will determine the amount and timing of any distributions. In making such determinations, our directors will consider all relevant factors, including the amount of cash available for distribution, capital expenditures, general operational requirements and applicable law. We intend over time to make regular quarterly distributions to holders of our common stock. However, we bear all expenses incurred by our operations, and the funds generated by operations, after deducting these expenses, may not be sufficient to cover desired levels of distributions to stockholders. In addition, our Board, in its discretion, may retain any portion of such cash in excess of our REIT taxable income for working capital. We cannot predict the amount of distributions we may make, maintain or increase over time. There are many factors that can affect the availability and timing of cash distributions to stockholders. Because we may receive rents and income from our properties at various times during our fiscal year, distributions paid may not reflect our income earned in that particular distribution period. The amount of cash available for distribution will be affected by many factors, including without limitation, the amount of income we will earn from investments in target assets, the amount of its operating expenses and many other variables. Actual cash available for distribution may vary substantially from our expectations. While we intend to fund the payment of quarterly distributions to holders of common stock entirely from distributable cash flows, we may fund quarterly distributions to its stockholders from a combination of available net cash flows, equity capital and proceeds from borrowings. In the event we are unable to consistently fund future quarterly distributions to stockholders entirely from distributable cash flows, the value of our common stock may be negatively impacted. An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to its stockholders. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of our common stock is our distribution rate as a percentage of our share price, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may demand a higher distribution rate on shares of common stock or seek alternative investments paying higher distributions or interest. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions can affect the market price of shares of our common stock. For instance, if interest rates rise without an increase in our distribution rate, the market price of shares of our common stock could decrease because potential investors may require a higher distribution yield on shares of our common stock as market rates on interest-bearing instruments such as bonds rise. In addition, to the extent we have variable rate debt, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on our variable rate debt, thereby adversely affecting our cash flow and its ability to service our indebtedness and make distributions to our stockholders. 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information This report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking expressions such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “project,” “continue,” or any negative or other variations on such expressions. Forward-looking statements include information concerning possible or assumed future results of our operations, including any forecasts, projections, plans and objectives for future operations. Although we believe that our plans, intentions and expectations as reflected in or suggested by those forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that the plans, intentions or expectations will be achieved. We have listed below some important risks, uncertainties and contingencies which could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the forward-looking statements we make in this report. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies include, but are not limited to, the following: • the success or failure of our efforts to implement our current business strategy; • our ability to identify and complete additional property acquisitions and risks of real estate acquisitions; • availability of investment opportunities on real estate assets and real estate-related and other securities; • the performance and financial condition of tenants and corporate customers; • the adequacy of our cash reserves, working capital and other forms of liquidity; • the availability, terms and deployment of short-term and long-term capital; • demand for industrial and office space; • the actions of our competitors and our ability to respond to those actions; • the timing of cash flows from our investments; • the cost and availability of our financings, which depends in part on our asset quality, the nature of our relationships with our lenders and other capital providers, our business prospects and outlook and general market conditions; • early termination of the Management Agreement; • economic conditions generally and in the commercial finance and real estate markets and the banking industry specifically; • unanticipated increases in financing and other costs, including a rise in interest rates; • reduction in cash flows received from our investments; • volatility or reduction in the value or uncertain timing in the realization of our Retained CDO Bonds; • our ability to profitably dispose of non-core assets; • the high tenant concentration of our Bank of America Portfolio; • availability of, and ability to retain, qualified personnel and directors; • changes to our management and board of directors; • changes in governmental regulations, tax rates and similar matters; • legislative and regulatory changes (including changes to real estate and zoning laws, laws governing the taxation of REITs or the exemptions from registration as an investment company); • environmental and/or safety requirements and risks related to natural disasters; • declining real estate valuations and impairment charges; 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS • our ability to satisfy complex rules in order for us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and qualify for our exemption under the Investment Company Act, our operating partnership’s ability to satisfy the rules in order for it to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to qualify as REITs and certain of our subsidiaries to qualify as TRSs for federal income tax purposes, and our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to operate effectively within the limitations imposed by these rules; • uninsured or underinsured losses relating to our properties; • our inability to comply with the laws, rules and regulations applicable to companies, and in particular, public companies; • tenant bankruptcies and defaults on or non-renewal of leases by tenants; • decreased rental rates or increased vacancy rates; • the continuing threat of terrorist attacks on the national, regional and local economies; and • other factors discussed under Item 1A, “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 and those factors that may be contained in any filing we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, which are incorporated by reference herein. We assume no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. In evaluating forward-looking statements, you should consider these risks and uncertainties, together with the other risks described from time-to-time in our reports and documents which are filed with the SEC, and you should not place undue reliance on those statements. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report may include additional factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING EXHIBITS In reviewing the agreements included as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, please remember they are included to provide you with information regarding their terms and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure information about our company or the other parties to the agreements. The agreements contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement and: • should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk tone of the parties if those statements provide to be inaccurate; • have been qualified by disclosures that were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable agreement, which disclosures are not necessarily reflected in the agreement; • may apply standards of materiality in a way that is different from what may be viewed as material to you or other investors; and • were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement and are subject to more recent developments. Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time. Additional information about our company may be found elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings, which are available without charge through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. See Item 1, “Business — Corporate Governance and Internet Address: Where Readers Can Find Additional Information.” 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this filing, we do not have any unresolved comments with the staff of the SEC. 