Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Growth Strategy We were formed in August 2003 and have a limited operating history; our management has a limited history of operating a REIT and a public company and may therefore have difficulty in successfully and profitably operating our business. We have only recently been organized and have a limited operating history. We are subject to the risks generally associated with the formation of any new business, including unproven business models, untested plans, uncertain market acceptance and competition with established businesses. Our management has limited experience in operating a REIT and a public company. Therefore, you should be especially cautious in drawing conclusions about the ability of our management team to execute our business plan. We may not be successful in deploying the net proceeds of our initial public offering for their intended uses as quickly as we intend or at all, which could harm our cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Upon completion of our initial public offering, we experienced a capital infusion from the net offering proceeds, which we have used or intend to use to develop additional net-leased facilities and to make a loan to an affiliate of one of our prospective tenants. If we are unable to use the net proceeds in this manner, we will have no specific designated use for a substantial portion of the net proceeds from our initial public offering. In that case, or in the event we allocate a portion of the net proceeds to other uses during the pendency of the developments, you would be unable to evaluate the manner in which we invest the net proceeds or the economic merits of the assets acquired with the proceeds. We may not be able to invest this capital on acceptable terms or timeframes, or at all, which may harm our cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may be unable to acquire or develop any of the facilities we have identified as potential candidates for acquisition or development, which could harm our future operating results and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We have identified numerous other facilities that we believe would be suitable candidates for acquisition or development; however, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in completing the acquisition or development of any of these facilities. Consummation of any of these acquisitions or developments is subject to, among other things, the willingness of the parties to proceed with a contemplated transaction, negotiation of mutually acceptable definitive agreements, satisfactory completion of due diligence and satisfaction of customary 10 Table of Contents closing conditions. If we are unsuccessful in completing the acquisition or development of additional facilities in the future, our future operating results will not meet expectations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders will be adversely affected. We expect to continue to experience rapid growth and may not be able to adapt our management and operational systems to integrate the net-leased facilities we have acquired and are developing or those that we may acquire or develop in the future without unanticipated disruption or expense. We are currently experiencing a period of rapid growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt our management, administrative, accounting and operational systems, or hire and retain sufficient operational staff, to integrate and manage the facilities we have acquired and are developing and those that we may acquire or develop. Our failure to successfully integrate and manage our current portfolio of facilities or any future acquisitions or developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may be unable to access capital, which would slow our growth. Our business plan contemplates growth through acquisitions and developments of facilities. As a REIT, we are required to make cash distributions which reduces our ability to fund acquisitions and developments with retained earnings. We are dependent on acquisition financings and access to the capital markets for cash to make investments in new facilities. Due to market or other conditions, there will be times when we will have limited access to capital from the equity and debt markets. During such periods, virtually all of our available capital will be required to meet existing commitments and to reduce existing debt. We may not be able to obtain additional equity or debt capital or dispose of assets, on favorable terms, if at all, at the time we need additional capital to acquire healthcare properties on a competitive basis or to meet our obligations. Our ability to grow through acquisitions and developments will be limited if we are unable to obtain debt or equity financing, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Dependence on our tenants for rent may adversely impact our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We expect to continue to qualify as a REIT and, accordingly, as a REIT operating in the healthcare industry, we are not permitted by current tax law to operate or manage the businesses conducted in our facilities. Accordingly, we rely almost exclusively on rent payments from our tenants for cash with which to make distributions to our stockholders. We have no control over the success or failure of these tenants’ businesses. Significant adverse changes in the operations of any facility, or the financial condition of any tenant or a guarantor, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to collect rent payments and, accordingly, on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Facility management by our tenants and their compliance with state and federal healthcare laws could have a material impact on our tenants’ operating and financial condition and, in turn, their ability to pay rent to us. Failure on the part of a tenant to comply materially with the terms of a lease could give us the right to terminate our lease with that tenant, repossess the applicable facility, cross default certain other leases with that tenant and enforce the payment obligations under the lease. However, we then would be required to find another tenant-operator. The transfer of most types of healthcare facilities is highly regulated, which may result in delays and increased costs in locating a suitable replacement tenant. The sale or lease of these properties to entities other than healthcare operators may be difficult due to the added cost and time of refitting the properties. If we are unable to re-let the properties to healthcare operators, we may be forced to sell the properties at a loss due to the repositioning expenses likely to be incurred by non-healthcare purchasers. Alternatively, we may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the facility to other uses. There can be no assurance that we would be able to find another tenant in a timely fashion, or at all, or that, if another tenant were found, we would be able to enter into a new lease on favorable terms. Defaults by our tenants under our leases may adversely affect the timing of and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 11 Table of Contents Failure by our tenants or other parties to whom we make loans to repay loans currently outstanding or loans we are obligated to make, or to pay us commitment or other fees that they are obligated to pay, in an aggregate amount of approximately $152.7 million, would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In connection with the acquisition of the Vibra Facilities, our taxable REIT subsidiary made a secured loan to Vibra of approximately $41.4 million to acquire the operations at the Vibra Facilities. Payment of this loan is secured by pledges of equity interests in Vibra and its subsidiaries that are tenants of ours. All leases and other agreements between us, or our affiliates, on the one hand, and the tenant and Mr. Hollinger, or their affiliates, on the other hand, including leases for the Vibra Facilities, the lease for the facility located in Redding, California, or the Redding Facility, and the Vibra loan, are cross-defaulted. If Vibra defaulted on this loan, our primary recourse would be to foreclose on the equity interests in Vibra and its affiliates. This recourse may be impractical because of limitations imposed by the REIT tax rules on our ability to own these interests. Failure to adhere to these limitations could cause us to lose our REIT status. We have obtained guaranty agreements for the Vibra loan from Mr. Hollinger, Vibra Management, LLC and The Hollinger Group that obligate them to make loan payments in the event that Vibra fails to do so. However, we do not believe that these parties have sufficient financial resources to satisfy a material portion of the loan obligations. Mr. Hollinger’s guaranty is limited to $5.0 million and Vibra Management, LLC and The Hollinger Group do not have substantial assets. Vibra has entered into a $20.0 million credit facility with Merrill Lynch, and that loan is secured by an interest in Vibra’s receivables. There was approximately $10.2 million outstanding under the facility on December 31, 2005. Our loan is subordinate to Merrill Lynch with respect to Vibra’s receivables. We have also agreed to make a working capital loan to Stealth, L.P., or Stealth, of up to $1.62 million. Stealth has borrowed $1.62 million under this loan as of March 24, 2006. Stealth also owes us commitment and other fees of approximately $1.1 million. Payment of these fees and loan amounts is unsecured. We have also agreed to make a construction loan to North Cypress Medical Center Operating Company, Ltd., or North Cypress, for approximately $64.0 million to fund the construction of a community hospital in Houston, Texas, secured by the hospital improvements, $18.7 million of which has been loaned to North Cypress as of March 24, 2006. Bucks County Oncoplastic Institute, LLC, or BCO, owes us commitment and other fees of $420,000. BCO also owes us approximately $4.0 million in connection with a loan we made to BCO, the loan proceeds of which we have retained in a separate bank account as security for BCO’s loan repayment obligations and its obligations under the lease for the facility we are developing in Bensalem, Pennsylvania, or the Bucks County Facility. Monroe Hospital LLC, or Monroe Hospital, owes us commitment and other fees of approximately $232,500. On December 23, 2005, we made a $40.0 million mortgage loan to Alliance Hospital, Ltd., or Alliance. As security for Alliance’s obligations under the mortgage loan, all principal, base interest and additional interest on the first $30.0 million of the loan amount is guaranteed on a pro rata basis by the shareholders of SRI-SAI Enterprises, Inc., the general partner of Alliance, until such time as Alliance meets certain financial conditions. Additionally, we have received a first mortgage on the facility and a first or second priority security interest in all of Alliance’s personal property other than accounts receivable, along with other security. We are dependent upon the ability of Vibra, Stealth, North Cypress, BCO, Monroe Hospital and Alliance to repay these loans and fees, and their failure to meet these obligations would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Accounting rules may require consolidation of entities in which we invest and other adjustments to our financial statements. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued FASB Interpretation No. 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 (ARB No. 51),” in January 2003, and a further interpretation of FIN 46 in December 2003 (FIN 46-R, and collectively FIN 46). FIN 46 clarifies the application of ARB No. 51, “Consolidated Financial Statements,” to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties, referred to as variable interest entities. FIN 46 generally requires consolidation by the party that has a majority of the risk and/or rewards, referred to as the primary beneficiary. FIN 46 applies immediately to variable interest entities created after 12 Table of Contents January 31, 2003. Under certain circumstances, generally accepted accounting principles may require us to account for loans to thinly capitalized companies such as Vibra as equity investments. The resulting accounting treatment of certain income and expense items may adversely affect our results of operations, and consolidation of balance sheet amounts may adversely affect any loan covenants. The bankruptcy or insolvency of our tenants under our leases could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. Five of our tenants, North Cypress, Stealth, BCO, Monroe Hospital and Vibra are, and some of our prospective tenants may be, newly organized, have limited or no operating history and may be dependent on loans from us to acquire the facility’s operations and for initial working capital. Any bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of our tenants could bar us from collecting pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or their property, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from the bankruptcy court. A tenant bankruptcy could delay our efforts to collect past due balances under our leases and loans, and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. If a lease is assumed by a tenant in bankruptcy, we expect that all pre-bankruptcy balances due under the lease would be paid to us in full. However, if a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. Any secured claims we have against our tenants may only be paid to the extent of the value of the collateral, which may not cover any or all of our losses. Any unsecured claim we hold against a bankrupt entity may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. We may recover none or substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims, which would harm our financial condition. Our facilities and properties under development are currently leased to only eight tenants, five of which were recently organized and have limited or no operating histories, and failure of any of these tenants and the guarantors of their leases to meet their obligations to us would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our existing facilities and the properties we have under development are currently leased to Vibra, Prime Healthcare Services, Inc., or Prime, Gulf States, North Cypress, BCO, Monroe Hospital and Stealth or their subsidiaries or affiliates. If any of our tenants were to experience financial difficulties, the tenant may not be able to pay its rent. Vibra, North Cypress, BCO, Monroe Hospital and Stealth were recently organized and have limited or no operating histories. Our business is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete successfully. We compete for development opportunities and opportunities to purchase healthcare facilities with, among others: • private investors; • healthcare providers, including physicians; • other REITs; • real estate partnerships; • financial institutions; and • local developers. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and may have better relationships with lenders and sellers. Competition for healthcare facilities from competitors may adversely affect our ability to acquire or develop healthcare facilities and the prices we pay for those facilities. If we are unable to acquire or develop facilities or if we pay too much for facilities, our revenue and earnings growth and financial return could be materially adversely affected. Certain of our facilities and additional facilities we may acquire or develop will face competition from other nearby facilities that provide services comparable to those offered at our facilities and additional facilities we may acquire or develop. Some of those facilities are owned by governmental agencies and supported by tax revenues, and others are owned by tax-exempt corporations and may be supported to 13 Table of Contents a large extent by endowments and charitable contributions. Those types of support are not available to our facilities and additional facilities we may acquire or develop. In addition, competing healthcare facilities located in the areas served by our facilities and additional facilities we may acquire or develop may provide healthcare services that are not available at our facilities and additional facilities we may acquire or develop. From time to time, referral sources, including physicians and managed care organizations, may change the healthcare facilities to which they refer patients, which could adversely affect our rental revenues. Our use of debt financing will subject us to significant risks, including refinancing risk and the risk of insufficient cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Our charter and other organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt we may incur. We have targeted our debt level at up to approximately 50-60% of our aggregate facility acquisition and development costs. However, we may modify our target debt level at any time without stockholder or board of director approval. In October 2005 we entered into a $100.0 million credit agreement with Merrill Lynch Capital, the principal amount of which may be increased to $175.0 million at our request. We have also entered into construction loan agreements with Colonial Bank pursuant to which we can borrow up to $43.4 million. As of March 24, 2006, we have $71.9 million of long-term debt outstanding. We may borrow from other lenders in the future, or we may issue corporate debt securities in public or private offerings. We anticipate that much of our debt will be non-amortizing and payable in balloon payments. Therefore, we will likely need to refinance at least a portion of that debt as it matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance then-existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of the then-existing debt. If principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or repaid with proceeds from other sources, such as new equity capital or sales of facilities, our cash flow may not be sufficient to repay all maturing debt in years when significant balloon payments come due. Additionally, we may incur significant penalties if we choose to prepay the debt. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. As of March 24, 2006, we had approximately $71.9 million in variable interest rate debt. We may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements that involve risk, including the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that these arrangements may result in higher interest rates than we would otherwise have. Moreover, no hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially adversely affect results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Most of our current tenants have, and prospective tenants may have, an option to purchase the facilities we lease to them which could disrupt our operations. Most of our current tenants have, and some prospective tenants will have, the option to purchase the facilities we lease to them. All of our arrangements which provide or will provide tenants the option to purchase the facilities we lease to them are subject to regulatory requirements that such purchases be at fair market value. We cannot assure you that the formulas we have developed for setting the purchase price will yield a fair market value purchase price. Any purchase not at fair market value may present risks of challenge from healthcare regulatory authorities. In the event our tenants and prospective tenants determine to purchase the facilities they lease either during the lease term or after their expiration, the timing of those purchases will be outside of our control and we may not be able to re-invest the capital on as favorable terms, or at all. Our inability to effectively manage the turn-over of our facilities could materially adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Property owned in limited liability companies and partnerships in which we are not the sole equity holder may limit our ability to act exclusively in our interests. We own, and in the future expect to own, interests in our facilities through wholly or majority owned subsidiaries of our operating partnership. We may offer limited liability company and limited partnership interests to tenants, subtenants and physicians in the future. Investments in partnerships, limited liability companies or other entities with co-owners may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a co-owner not involved, including the possibility that partners or other co-owners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Partners or other co-owners may have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have potential risks pertaining to healthcare regulatory compliance, particularly when partners or other co-owners are physicians, and of impasses on major decisions, such as sales or mergers, because neither we nor our partners or other co-owners would have full control over the partnership, limited liability company or other entity. Disputes between us and our partners or other co-owners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with our partners or other co-owners might result in subjecting facilities owned by the partnership, limited liability company or other entity to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our partners or other co-owners. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, U.S. military action and the public’s reaction to the threat of terrorism or military action could adversely affect our results of operations and the market on which our common stock will trade. There may be future terrorist threats or attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses. These attacks may directly impact the value of our facilities through damage, destruction, loss or increased security costs. Losses due to wars or terrorist attacks may be uninsurable, or insurance may not be available at a reasonable price. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economies. Risks Relating to Real Estate Investments Our real estate investments are and will continue to be concentrated in net-leased healthcare facilities, making us more vulnerable economically than if our investments were more diversified. We have acquired and are developing and expect to continue acquiring and developing net-leased healthcare facilities. We are subject to risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate. The risks resulting from a lack of diversification become even greater as a result of our business strategy to invest in net-leased healthcare facilities. A downturn in the real estate industry could materially adversely affect the value of our facilities. A downturn in the healthcare industry could negatively affect our tenants’ ability to make lease or loan payments to us and, consequently, our ability to meet debt service obligations or make distributions to our stockholders. These adverse effects could be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments outside of real estate or outside of healthcare facilities. Our net-leased facilities and targeted net-leased facilities may not have efficient alternative uses, which could impede our ability to find replacement tenants in the event of termination or default under our leases. All of the facilities in our current portfolio are and all of the facilities we expect to acquire or develop in the future will be net-leased healthcare facilities. If we or our tenants terminate the leases for these facilities or if these tenants lose their regulatory authority to operate these facilities, we may not be able to locate suitable replacement tenants to lease the facilities for their specialized uses. Alternatively, we may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the facilities to other uses. Any loss of revenues or additional capital expenditures occurring as a 15 Table of Contents result could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could hinder our ability to meet debt service obligations or make distributions to our stockholders. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our facilities and harm our financial condition. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our facilities in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any facility that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. Our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Development and construction risks could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We are developing a women’s hospital and integrated medical office building in Bensalem, Pennsylvania, developing a community hospital in Bloomington, Indiana and financing the development of a community hospital in Houston, Texas. We expect to develop additional facilities in the future. Our development and related construction activities may subject us to the following risks: • we may have to compete for suitable development sites; • our ability to complete construction is dependent on there being no title, environmental or other legal proceedings arising during construction; • we may be subject to delays due to weather conditions, strikes and other contingencies beyond our control; • we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy healthcare regulatory and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs, delays in construction, or our abandonment of these projects; • we may incur construction costs for a facility which exceed our original estimates due to increased costs for materials or labor or other costs that we did not anticipate; and • we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities. We expect to fund our development projects over time. Additionally, the time frame required for development and construction of these facilities means that we may have to wait years for a significant cash return. Because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancings is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund distributions. We cannot assure you that we will complete our current construction projects on time or within budget or that future development projects will not be subject to delays and cost overruns. Risks associated with our development projects may reduce anticipated rental revenue which could affect the timing of, and our ability to make, distributions to our stockholders. Our facilities may not achieve expected results or we may be limited in our ability to finance future acquisitions, which may harm our financial condition and operating results and our ability to make the distributions to our stockholders required to maintain our REIT status. Acquisitions and developments entail risks that investments will fail to perform in accordance with expectations and that estimates of the costs of improvements necessary to acquire and develop facilities will prove inaccurate, as well as general investment risks associated with any new real estate investment. We anticipate that future acquisitions and developments will largely be financed through externally generated funds such as borrowings under credit facilities and other secured and unsecured debt financing and from issuances of equity securities. Because we must distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gain, each year to maintain our qualification as a REIT, our ability to rely upon income from operations or cash flow from operations to finance our growth and acquisition activities will be limited. Accordingly, if we are unable to obtain funds from borrowings or the capital markets to finance our acquisition and development activities, our ability to 16 Table of Contents grow would likely be curtailed, amounts available for distribution to stockholders could be adversely affected and we could be required to reduce distributions, thereby jeopardizing our ability to maintain our status as a REIT. Newly-developed or newly-renovated facilities do not have the operating history that would allow our management to make objective pricing decisions in acquiring these facilities (including facilities that may be acquired from certain of our executive officers, directors and their affiliates). The purchase prices of these facilities will be based in part upon projections by management as to the expected operating results of the facilities, subjecting us to risks that these facilities may not achieve anticipated operating results or may not achieve these results within anticipated time frames. If we suffer losses that are not covered by insurance or that are in excess of our insurance coverage limits, we could lose investment capital and anticipated profits. We have purchased general liability insurance (lessor’s risk) that provides coverage for bodily injury and property damage to third parties resulting from our ownership of the healthcare facilities that are leased to and occupied by our tenants. Our leases generally require our tenants to carry general liability, professional liability, loss of earnings, all risk, and extended coverage insurance in amounts sufficient to permit the replacement of the facility in the event of a total loss, subject to applicable deductibles. However, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and acts of terrorism, that may be uninsurable or not insurable at a price we or our tenants can afford. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it impracticable to use insurance proceeds to replace a facility after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the affected facility. If any of these or similar events occur, it may reduce our return from the facility and the value of our investment. Capital expenditures for facility renovation may be greater than anticipated and may adversely impact rent payments by our tenants and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Facilities, particularly those that consist of older structures, have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including periodic replacement of furniture, fixtures and equipment. Although our leases require our tenants to be primarily responsible for the cost of such expenditures, renovation of facilities involves certain risks, including the possibility of environmental problems, construction cost overruns and delays, uncertainties as to market demand or deterioration in market demand after commencement of renovation and the emergence of unanticipated competition from other facilities. All of these factors could adversely impact rent and loan payments by our tenants, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could adversely effect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. All of our healthcare facilities are subject to property taxes that may increase in the future and adversely affect our business. Our facilities are subject to real and personal property taxes that may increase as property tax rates change and as the facilities are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. Our leases generally provide that the property taxes are charged to our tenants as an expense related to the facilities that they occupy. As the owner of the facilities, however, we are ultimately responsible for payment of the taxes to the government. If property taxes increase, our tenants may be unable to make the required tax payments, ultimately requiring us to pay the taxes. If we incur these tax liabilities, our ability to make expected distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. Our performance and the price of our common stock will be affected by risks associated with the real estate industry. Factors that may adversely affect the economic performance and price of our common stock include: • changes in the national, regional and local economic climate, including but not limited to changes in interest rates; 17 Table of Contents • local conditions such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, rehabilitation hospitals, long-term acute care hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, medical office buildings, specialty hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, regional and community hospitals, women’s and children’s hospitals and other single-discipline facilities. • attractiveness of our facilities to healthcare providers and other types of tenants; and • competition from other rehabilitation hospitals, long-term acute care facilities, medical office buildings, outpatient treatment facilities, ambulatory surgery centers and specialty hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, regional and community hospitals, women’s and children’s hospitals and other single-discipline facilities. As the owner and lessor of real estate, we are subject to risks under environmental laws, the cost of compliance with which and any violation of which could materially adversely affect us. Our operating expenses could be higher than anticipated due to the cost of complying with existing and future environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Various environmental laws may impose liability on a current or prior owner or operator of real property for removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances. Current or prior owners or operators may also be liable for government fines and damages for injuries to persons, natural resources and adjacent property. These environmental laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or disposal of the hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of complying with environmental laws could materially adversely affect amounts available for distribution to our stockholders and could exceed the value of all of our facilities. In addition, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure of our tenants to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, including medical waste generated by physicians and our other healthcare tenants, may adversely affect our tenants or our ability to use, sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, could reduce our revenue and our financing ability. We have obtained on all facilities we have acquired and are developing and intend to obtain on all future facilities we acquire Phase I environmental assessments. However, even if the Phase I environmental assessment reports do not reveal any material environmental contamination, it is possible that material environmental liabilities may exist of which we are unaware. Although the leases for our facilities generally require our tenants to comply with laws and regulations governing their operations, including the disposal of medical waste, and to indemnify us for certain environmental liabilities, the scope of their obligations may be limited. We cannot assure you that our tenants would be able to fulfill their indemnification obligations and, therefore, any violation of environmental laws could have a material adverse affect on us. In addition, environmental and occupational health and safety laws constantly are evolving, and changes in laws, regulations or policies, or changes in interpretations of the foregoing, could create liabilities where none exists today. Costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1993 may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1993, all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. While our facilities are generally in compliance with these requirements, a determination that we are not in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1993 could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. In addition, changes in governmental rules and regulations or enforcement policies affecting the use and operation of the facilities, including changes to building codes and fire and life-safety codes, may occur. If we are required to make substantial modifications at our facilities to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1993 or other changes in governmental rules and regulations, this may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our facilities may contain or develop harmful mold or suffer from other air quality issues, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds 18 Table of Contents may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Indoor air quality issues can also stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources and other biological contaminants such as pollen, viruses and bacteria. Indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants above certain levels can be alleged to cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our facilities could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold or other airborne contaminants from the affected facilities or increase indoor ventilation. In addition, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants and others if property damage or health concerns arise. Our interests in facilities through ground leases expose us to the loss of the facility upon breach or termination of the ground lease and may limit our use of the facility. We have acquired interests in two of our facilities, at least in part, and one facility under development, by acquiring leasehold interests in the land on which the facility is or the facility under development will be located rather than an ownership interest in the property, and we may acquire additional facilities in the future through ground leases. As lessee under ground leases, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination, or an earlier breach by us, of the ground lease. Ground leases may also restrict our use of facilities. Our current ground lease in Marlton, New Jersey limits use of the property to operation of a 76 bed rehabilitation hospital. Our current ground lease for the Redding Facility limits use of the property to operation of a hospital offering the following services: skilled nursing; physical rehabilitation; occupational therapy; speech pathology; social services; assisted living; day health programs; long-term acute care services; psychiatric services; geriatric clinic services; outpatient services related to the foregoing service categories; and other post-acute services. These restrictions and any similar future restrictions in ground leases will limit our flexibility in renting the facility and may impede our ability to sell the property. Risks Relating to the Healthcare Industry Reductions in reimbursement from third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, could adversely affect the profitability of our tenants and hinder their ability to make rent payments to us. Sources of revenue for our tenants and operators may include the federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs, private insurance carriers and health maintenance organizations, among others. Efforts by such payors to reduce healthcare costs will likely continue, which may result in reductions or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants. In addition, the failure of any of our tenants to comply with various laws and regulations could jeopardize their ability to continue participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored payment programs. The healthcare industry continues to face various challenges, including increased government and private payor pressure on healthcare providers to control or reduce costs. We believe that our tenants will continue to experience a shift in payor mix away from fee-for-service payors, resulting in an increase in the percentage of revenues attributable to managed care payors, government payors and general industry trends that include pressures to control healthcare costs. Pressures to control healthcare costs and a shift away from traditional health insurance reimbursement have resulted in an increase in the number of patients whose healthcare coverage is provided under managed care plans, such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations. In addition, due to the aging of the population and the expansion of governmental payor programs, we anticipate that there will be a marked increase in the number of patients reliant on healthcare coverage provided by governmental payors. These changes could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of some or all of our tenants, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 19 Table of Contents The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and existing and new laws or regulations, changes to existing laws or regulations, loss of licensure or certification or failure to obtain licensure or certification could result in the inability of our tenants to make lease payments to us. The healthcare industry is highly regulated by federal, state and local laws, and is directly affected by federal conditions of participation, state licensing requirements, facility inspections, state and federal reimbursement policies, regulations concerning capital and other expenditures, certification requirements and other such laws, regulations and rules. In addition, establishment of healthcare facilities and transfers of operations of healthcare facilities are subject to regulatory approvals not required for establishment of or transfers of other types of commercial operations and real estate. Sanctions for failure to comply with these regulations and laws include, but are not limited to, loss of or inability to obtain licensure, fines and loss of or inability to obtain certification to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as potential criminal penalties. The failure of any tenant to comply with such laws, requirements and regulations could affect its ability to establish or continue its operation of the facility or facilities and could adversely affect the tenant’s ability to make lease payments to us which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, restrictions and delays in transferring the operations of healthcare facilities, in obtaining new third-party payor contracts including Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements, and in receiving licensure and certification approval from appropriate state and federal agencies by new tenants may affect our ability to terminate lease agreements, remove tenants that violate lease terms, and replace existing tenants with new tenants. Furthermore, these matters may affect new tenants ability to obtain reimbursement for services rendered, which could adversely affect their ability to pay rent to us and to pay principal and interest on their loans from us. Our tenants are subject to fraud and abuse laws, the violation of which by a tenant may jeopardize the tenant’s ability to make lease and loan payments to us. The federal government and numerous state governments have passed laws and regulations that attempt to eliminate healthcare fraud and abuse by prohibiting business arrangements that induce patient referrals or the ordering of specific ancillary services. In addition, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 strengthened the federal anti-fraud and abuse laws to provide for stiffer penalties for violations. Violations of these laws may result in the imposition of criminal and civil penalties, including possible exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs. Imposition of any of these penalties upon any of our tenants could jeopardize any tenant’s ability to operate a facility or to make lease and loan payments, thereby potentially adversely affecting us. In the past several years, federal and state governments have significantly increased investigation and enforcement activity to detect and eliminate fraud and abuse in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, legislation has been adopted at both state and federal levels which severely restricts the ability of physicians to refer patients to entities in which they have a financial interest. It is anticipated that the trend toward increased investigation and enforcement activity in the area of fraud and abuse, as well as self-referrals, will continue in future years and could adversely affect our prospective tenants and their operations, and in turn their ability to make lease and loan payments to us. Vibra has accepted, and prospective tenants may accept, an assignment of the previous operator’s Medicare provider agreement. Vibra and other new-operator tenants that take assignment of Medicare provider agreements might be subject to federal or state regulatory, civil and criminal investigations of the previous owner’s operations and claims submissions. While we conduct due diligence in connection with the acquisition of such facilities, these types of issues may not be discovered prior to purchase. Adverse decisions, fines or recoupments might negatively impact our tenants’ financial condition. Certain of our lease arrangements may be subject to fraud and abuse or physician self-referral laws. Local physician investment in our operating partnership or our subsidiaries that own our facilities could subject our lease arrangements to scrutiny under fraud and abuse and physician self-referral laws. Under the federal Ethics in Patient Referrals Act of 1989, or Stark Law, and regulations adopted thereunder, if our lease arrangements do not satisfy the requirements of an applicable exception, that noncompliance could adversely affect the ability of our 20 Table of Contents tenants to bill for services provided to Medicare beneficiaries pursuant to referrals from physician investors and subject us and our tenants to fines, which could impact their ability to make lease and loan payments to us. On March 26, 2004, CMS issued Phase II final rules under the Stark Law, which, together with the 2001 Phase I final rules, set forth CMS’ current interpretation and application of the Stark Law prohibition on referrals of designated health services, or DHS. These rules provide us additional guidance on application of the Stark Law through the implementation of “bright-line” tests, including additional regulations regarding the indirect compensation exception, but do not eliminate the risk that our lease arrangements and business strategy of physician investment may violate the Stark Law. Finally, the Phase II rules implemented an 18-month moratorium on physician ownership or investment in specialty hospitals imposed by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003. The moratorium imposed by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 expired on June 8, 2005. However, that moratorium was retroactively extended by the passage of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (the “DRA”) which requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop a strategic and implementing plan for physician investment in specialty hospitals that addresses the issues of proportionality of investment return, bona fide investment, annual disclosure of investments, and the provision of medical assistance (Medicaid) and charity care. The report is due six months after the date of enactment, but this deadline may be extended by two months. The DRA also directs CMS to continue the moratorium on enrollment of specialty hospitals until the earlier of the date the report is submitted or 6 months after enactment of the DRA. We intend to use our good faith efforts to structure our lease arrangements to comply with these laws; however, if we are unable to do so, this failure may restrict our ability to permit physician investment or, where such physicians do participate, may restrict the types of lease arrangements into which we may enter, including our ability to enter into percentage rent arrangements. State certificate of need laws may adversely affect our development of facilities and the operations of our tenants. Certain healthcare facilities in which we invest may also be subject to state laws which require regulatory approval in the form of a certificate of need prior to initiation of certain projects, including, but not limited to, the establishment of new or replacement facilities, the addition of beds, the addition or expansion of services and certain capital expenditures. State certificate of need laws are not uniform throughout the United States and are subject to change. We cannot predict the impact of state certificate of need laws on our development of facilities or the operations of our tenants. In addition, certificate of need laws often materially impact the ability of competitors to enter into the marketplace of our facilities. Finally, in limited circumstances, loss of state licensure or certification or closure of a facility could ultimately result in loss of authority to operate the facility and require re-licensure or new certificate of need authorization to re-institute operations. As a result, a portion of the value of the facility may be related to the limitation on new competitors. In the event of a change in the certificate of need laws, this value may markedly decrease. Risks Relating to Our Organization and Structure Maryland law, our charter and our bylaws contain provisions which may prevent or deter changes in management and third-party acquisition proposals that you may believe to be in your best interest, depress our stock price or cause dilution. Our charter contains ownership limitations that may restrict business combination opportunities, inhibit change of control transactions and reduce the value of our stock. To qualify as a REIT under the Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), no more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock, after taking into account options to acquire stock, may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer persons during the last half of each taxable year, other than our first REIT taxable year. Our charter generally prohibits direct or indirect ownership by any person of more than 9.8% in value or in number, whichever is more restrictive, of outstanding shares of any class or series of our securities, including our common stock. Generally, common stock owned by affiliated owners will be aggregated for purposes of the ownership limitation. The ownership limitation could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or other transaction in which holders of common stock might receive a premium for their common stock over the then-current market price or which such holders otherwise might believe 21 Table of Contents to be in their best interests. The ownership limitation provisions also may make our common stock an unsuitable investment vehicle for any person seeking to obtain, either alone or with others as a group, ownership of more than 9.8% of either the value or number of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may impede third-party acquisition proposals that may be in your best interests. Our charter and bylaws also provide that our directors may only be removed by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of our stock, that stockholders are required to give us advance notice of director nominations and new business to be conducted at our annual meetings of stockholders and that special meetings of stockholders can only be called by our president, our board of directors or the holders of at least 25% of stock entitled to vote at the meetings. These and other charter and bylaw provisions may delay or prevent a change of control or other transaction in which holders of our common stock might receive a premium for their common stock over the then-current market price or which such holders otherwise might believe to be in their best interests. We depend on key personnel, the loss of any one of whom may threaten our ability to operate our business successfully. We depend on the services of Edward K. Aldag, Jr., William G. McKenzie, Emmett E. McLean, R. Steven Hamner and Michael G. Stewart to carry out our business and investment strategy. If we were to lose any of these executive officers, it may be more difficult for us to locate attractive acquisition targets, complete our acquisitions and manage the facilities that we have acquired or are developing. Additionally, as we expand, we will continue to need to attract and retain additional qualified officers and employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We may experience conflicts of interest with our officers and directors, which could result in our officers and directors acting other than in our best interest. Our officers and directors may have conflicts of interest in connection with their duties to us and the limited partners of our operating partnership and with allocation of their time between our business and affairs and their other business interests. In addition, from time to time, we may acquire or develop facilities in transactions involving prospective tenants in which our directors or officers have an interest. In transactions of this nature, there will be conflicts between our interests and the interests of the director or officer involved, and that director or officer may be in a position to influence the terms of those transactions. In the event we purchase properties from executive officers or directors in exchange for units of limited partnership in our operating partnership, the interests of those persons with the interests of the company may conflict. Where a unitholder has unrealized gains associated with his limited partnership interests in our operating partnership, these holders may incur adverse tax consequences in the event of a sale or refinancing of those properties. Therefore the interest of these executive officers or directors of our company could be different from the interests of the company in connection with the disposition or refinancing of a property. Conflicts of interest with our officers and directors could result in our officers and directors acting other than in our best interest. The vice chairman of our board of directors, William G. McKenzie, has other business interests that may hinder his ability to allocate sufficient time to the management of our operations, which could jeopardize our ability to execute our business plan. Our employment agreement with the vice chairman of our board of directors, Mr. McKenzie, permits him to continue to own, operate and control facilities that he owned as of the date of his employment agreement and requires that he only provide a limited amount of his time per month to our company. In addition, the terms of Mr. McKenzie’s employment agreement permit him to compete against us with respect to these previously owned healthcare facilities. 22 Table of Contents Our UPREIT structure may result in conflicts of interest between our stockholders and the holders of our operating partnership units. We are organized as an UPREIT, which means that we hold our assets and conduct substantially all of our operations through an operating limited partnership, and may in the future issue limited partnership units to third parties. Persons holding operating partnership units would have the right to vote on certain amendments to the partnership agreement of our operating partnership, as well as on certain other matters. Persons holding these voting rights may exercise them in a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders. Circumstances may arise in the future, such as the sale or refinancing of one of our facilities, when the interests of limited partners in our operating partnership conflict with the interests of our stockholders. As the general partner of our operating partnership, we have fiduciary duties to the limited partners of our operating partnership that may conflict with fiduciary duties our officers and directors owe to our stockholders. These conflicts may result in decisions that are not in your best interest. Tax Risks Associated With Our Status as a REIT Loss of our tax status as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our common stock. We believe that we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the federal income tax laws commencing with our taxable year that began on April 6, 2004 and ended on December 31, 2004. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will be successful in operating so as to qualify as a REIT. At any time, new laws, regulations, interpretations or court decisions may change the federal tax laws relating to, or the federal income tax consequences of, qualification as a REIT. It is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our board of directors to revoke the REIT election, which it may do without stockholder approval. If we lose or revoke our REIT status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for distribution because: • we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; therefore we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates and we might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay any such tax; • we also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify. As a result of all these factors, a failure to achieve or a loss or revocation of our REIT status could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax. In order to qualify as a REIT, each year we must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any year are less than the sum of (1) 85% of our ordinary income for that year; (2) 95% of our capital gain net income for that year; and (3) 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Differences in timing between the recognition of income and the related cash receipts or the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow money or sell assets to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and 23 Table of Contents the 4% excise tax in a particular year. In the future, we may borrow to pay distributions to our stockholders and the limited partners of our operating partnership. Any funds that we borrow would subject us to interest rate and other market risks. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego attractive business or investment opportunities. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of our assets may consist of securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries, and no more than 25% of the value of our assets may consist of securities that are not qualifying assets under the test requiring that 75% of a REIT’s assets consist of real estate and other related assets. Further, a taxable REIT subsidiary may not directly or indirectly operate or manage a healthcare facility. For purposes of this definition a “healthcare facility” means a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility which extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients and which is operated by a service provider that is eligible for participation in the Medicare program under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act with respect to the facility. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may limit our flexibility in executing our business plan. Our loan to Vibra could be recharacterized as equity, in which case our rental income from Vibra would not be qualifying income under the REIT rules and we could lose our REIT status. In connection with the acquisition of the Vibra Facilities, our taxable REIT subsidiary made a loan to Vibra in an aggregate amount of approximately $41.4 million to acquire the operations at the Vibra Facilities. Our taxable REIT subsidiary also made a loan of approximately $6.2 million to Vibra and its subsidiaries for working capital purposes, which has been paid in full. The acquisition loan bears interest at an annual rate of 10.25%. Our operating partnership loaned the funds to our taxable REIT subsidiary to make these loans. The loan from our operating partnership to our taxable REIT subsidiary bears interest at an annual rate of 9.25%. The Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, may take the position that the loans to Vibra should be treated as equity interests in Vibra rather than debt, and that our rental income from Vibra should not be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. If the IRS were to successfully treat the loans to Vibra as equity interests in Vibra, Vibra would be a “related party tenant” with respect to our company and the rent that we receive from Vibra would not be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. As a result, we could lose our REIT status. In addition, if the IRS were to successfully treat the loans to Vibra as interests held by our operating partnership rather than by our taxable REIT subsidiary and to treat the loans as other than straight debt, we would fail the 10% asset test with respect to such interests and, as a result, could lose our REIT status, which would subject us to corporate level income tax and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 24 Table of Contents 