ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Focus on recapitalizing our Company has and may continue to reduce new investment activity. Subsequent to the execution of the Settlement Agreement with respect to Gramercy Realty, our board of directors continues to explore various means by which we might improve our position and thereby potentially create value for our stockholders, and has created a special committee to evaluate strategic alternatives. The Company has engaged Wells Fargo Securities, LLC to act as financial adviser to assist in this process. It is not possible to predict whether or when any such actions can or will be implemented. During this period, new investment activity has and may continue to be limited. A reduction in new investment activity may have an adverse effect on our investment income and our net income available to stockholders. A negative book equity balance may impair our ability to raise new debt or equity capital. In September 2011, we entered into the Settlement Agreement for an orderly transition of substantially all of Gramercy Realty’s assets to KBS, in exchange for a mutual release of claims among us and the mortgage and mezzanine lenders and, subject to certain termination provisions, an arrangement for our continued management of Gramercy Realty’s assets on behalf of KBS for a fixed fee plus incentive fees. During 2010, we recorded impairment charges totaling $912.1 million in continuing operations to reduce the carrying value of 692 properties to estimated fair value. All of the impaired properties served as collateral for the Goldman Mezzanine Loans and were part of the Gramercy Realty portfolio. As a result of recording these impairments, our book equity balance is negative, although the negative balance improved after Gramercy Realty’s assets were transferred and the corresponding liabilities were removed from our balance sheet in connection with the Settlement Agreement. The capital markets may have a negative perception of our long-term and short-term financial prospects due to a negative book equity balance and accordingly, our ability to raise new debt or equity capital could be impaired. Termination of our Interim Management Agreement could harm our business. We have agreed to manage the Gramercy Realty assets on behalf KBS pursuant to an Interim Management Agreement through December 31, 2013 for a fixed fee of $10.0 million annually, the reimbursement of certain costs and the potential to earn certain incentive fees as therein provided. However, the Settlement Agreement obligates the parties to negotiate in good faith to replace the Interim Management Agreement with a more complete and definitive management services agreement on or before March 31, 2012 and provides that if the parties fail to complete a definitive agreement, the Interim Management Agreement will terminate by its terms on June 30, 2012, or a Failure to Agree Termination. We promptly commenced and continue to seek to negotiate a more complete and definitive agreement with KBS not later than March 31, 2012, but there can be no assurance a Failure to Agree Termination will not occur notwithstanding our efforts. Upon any termination of the Interim Management Agreement, our management fees, after payment of any termination payments required, would cease, thereby reducing our expected revenues, which could harm our business. Failure to comply with CDO coverage tests may have a negative impact on our liquidity and net cash flows. The terms of our CDOs include certain overcollateralization and interest coverage tests, which are used primarily to determine whether and to what extent principal and interest paid on the debt securities and other assets that serve as collateral underlying our CDOs may be used to pay principal and interest on the various classes of notes payable issued by our CDOs. If any of these CDO tests are not satisfied, distributions that we currently receive with respect to our equity interests in our CDOs, interest and principal payments that we currently receive on certain of the tranches of CDO notes that we hold, as well as the subordinate management fees that we currently receive, will instead be redirected to pay principal on the senior-most tranches of CDO notes. Because a substantial portion of our operating cash flow consists of cash distributions to us with respect to our equity interests in our 2006 CDO, and a lesser but still material portion of our operating cash flow for fiscal year 2011 was received from our 2005 CDO, failure to satisfy these tests for either or both CDOs could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and net cash flows. As of January 2012, the most recent distribution date, our 2005 CDO and our 2006 CDO were in compliance with 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS interest coverage and asset overcollateralization covenants, and we received cash distributions from each in January 2012. The compliance margins were narrow, however, and relatively small declines in collateral performance and credit metrics could cause either or both CDOs to fall out of compliance. Our 2005 CDO failed its overcollateralization test at the October 2011, April 2011 and January 2011 distribution dates. Our 2007 CDO failed its overcollateralization test beginning with the November 2009 distribution date and remains out of compliance. We cannot be certain that the CDO tests will continue to be satisfied and that we will continue to receive cash flows relating to our 2005 CDO and 2006 CDO in the future. If the cash flow from our 2005 CDO and/or our 2006 CDO is redirected, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Liquidity in the capital markets is essential to our businesses and future growth and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. We have limited liquidity and we may be required to pursue certain measures in order to maintain or enhance our liquidity. Liquidity is essential to our business and our ability to operate and grow and to fund existing obligations. A primary source of liquidity for us has been the equity and debt capital markets, including issuing common equity, perpetual preferred equity and trust preferred securities. We depend on external financing to fund the growth of our business mainly because, as a REIT, we are required under the Internal Revenue Code to distribute 90% of our taxable income to our stockholders, including taxable income where we do not receive corresponding cash. Our access to equity or debt financing depends on the willingness of third parties to make equity investments in us and provide us with corporate or asset level debt. It also depends on conditions in the capital markets generally. Companies in the real estate industry have at times historically experienced limited availability of capital, and new capital sources may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our ability to raise capital could be impaired if the capital markets have a negative perception of our long-term and short-term financial prospects or the prospects for mortgage REITs and the commercial real estate market generally. We cannot be certain that sufficient funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. If we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, or at all, we will not be able to operate and/or grow our business, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may be required to pursue certain measures in order to maintain or enhance our liquidity, including seeking debt facilities, potentially selling assets at unfavorable prices and/or reducing our operating expenses. Sales of assets held in the CDOs do not generate unrestricted cash or further liquidity for us because proceeds from CDO asset sales are restricted and subject to compliance with various collateral qualification tests. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in measures to improve our liquidity. We currently do not have a corporate credit facility or any other debt source to fund liquidity needs. For information about our available sources of funds, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our CDOs could generate “phantom” income. Our CDOs could continue to generate taxable income for us despite the fact that, if our CDOs fall out of compliance and cash flow is redirected, we will not receive cash distributions on our equity and subordinated note holdings from these CDOs. Should this occur, taxable income would continue to be recognized on each underlying investment in the relevant CDO. We would continue to be required to distribute 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined with regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding net capital gain) from these transactions to continue to qualify as a REIT, despite the fact that we are not receiving cash distributions on our equity and subordinated note holdings from these CDOs. We can be removed as Collateral Manager for our 2006 CDO or 2007 CDO if certain tests are breached. Failure to satisfy the Class A/B overcollateralization test threshold, which is 101.87% and 92.00% for our 2006 and 2007 CDO, respectively, entitles a senior class or classes of CDO notes payable to remove us a collateral manager for the affected CDO, which could result in the loss of collateral management fee revenue paid to us by our CDOs. As of December 31, 2011, our 2006 CDO was in compliance with its Class A/B test, 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS but the 2007 CDO breached its Class A/B test in November 2011. To the extent the senior class or classes act to remove the collateral manager, a majority vote of such classes is required. No such vote has occurred, or is expected to occur, based on a written agreement between us and a holder of a supermajority of the senior-most bonds. If we were removed as collateral manager of our CDOs, a different collateral manager appointed by the holders of the senior class or classes of notes may manage our CDOs or notes in a manner that is not our best interests as holder of the equity and subordinated classes of CDO securities. A CDO event of default can cause an early termination of the reinvestment period for the 2007 CDO. In addition to the overcollateralization and interest coverage tests, the operative documents for our CDOs provide for certain events of default, the occurrence of which would entitle a majority of the holders of a senior class or classes of notes payable to accelerate the notes payable of such CDO and, depending upon the circumstances, require a liquidation of the collateral under then-current market conditions, which could result in higher levels of losses on the collateral and the notes payable of such CDO than might otherwise occur. Our 2007 CDO will soon breach its Class A/B overcollateralization test threshold of 89% due to a growing volume of rating agency downgrades of CMBS held by our 2007 CDO, which would constitute an event of default under the operative documents for our 2007 CDO. Upon an event of default, the reinvestment period, which is scheduled to expire in August 2012, will immediately end and we will lose our ability to reinvest restricted cash held by our 2007 CDO. Furthermore, our ability to sell and actively manage our 2007 CDO underlying assets will be sharply restricted. A CDO event of default in our 2006 CDO or our 2007 CDO may result in the acceleration of our CDO notes payable for the affected CDO. A CDO event of default entitles a senior class or classes of CDO notes payable for our 2006 CDO or our 2007 CDO to accelerate the notes of such CDO and, depending upon the circumstances, force the prompt liquidation of the collateral which, depending upon then-current market conditions, could result in higher levels of losses on the collateral and the notes payable of such CDO than might otherwise occur. Claims may arise under an indemnification provided by us to the trustee of our 2005 CDO and 2006 CDO in connection with note cancellations. Our subsidiary, Gramercy Manager LLC, the collateral manager, has provided separate limited indemnities to the trustee of our 2005 CDO and 2006 CDO in connection with CDO note cancellations we undertook in 2011 in accordance with the operative documents of each CDO. These cancellations were undertaken to reduce the total debt owed by our 2005 CDO and our 2006 CDO and improve their compliance with certain overcollateralization tests. Payments made by us, if any, under these indemnities would reduce our liquidity available for general corporate purposes and investments. The role of the Manager as collateral manager for our CDOs and GKK Realty Advisors’ role as property manager for the assets transferred to KBS may expose us to liabilities to CDO debt holders or KBS. We are subject to potential liabilities to investors as a result of the Manager's role as collateral manager for our CDOs and our property management business generally. In serving in such roles, we could be subject to claims by CDO debt holders and KBS that we did not act in accordance with our duties under our CDO and property management documentation or that we were negligent in taking or refraining from taking actions with respect to the underlying collateral in our CDOs or in managing the assets transferred to KBS. In particular, the discretion that we exercise in managing the collateral for our CDOs and managing the assets transferred to KBS could result in a liability due to the current negative conditions in the commercial real estate market and the inherent uncertainties surrounding the course of action that will result in the best long term results with respect to such collateral and investments. This risk could be increased due to the affiliated nature of our roles. If we were found liable for our actions as collateral manager or property manager and we were required to pay significant damages to our CDOs or KBS, our financial condition could be materially adversely effected. We are exposed to litigation risks in our role as property manager and special servicer. GKK Realty Advisors' role as manager for the assets transferred to KBS and the Manager's role as collateral manager for our CDOs, as well as GKK Loan Servicing LLC's role as a special servicer expose us 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS to litigation risks. In these roles, we make investment, asset management, loan work-out, and other decisions which could result in adverse financial impacts to third parties. These parties may pursue legal action against us as a result of these decisions, the outcomes of which cannot be certain. We have historically utilized a significant amount of debt to finance our portfolios of debt investments and real estate investments, which may subject us to an increased risk of loss, adversely affecting the return on our investments and reducing cash available for distribution. We have historically utilized a significant amount of debt to finance our operations, which can compound losses and reduce the cash available for distributions to our stockholders. We historically leveraged our portfolios through the use of securitizations, including the issuance of CDOs, mortgage and mezzanine borrowings and other borrowings. The leverage we employ varies depending on our ability to obtain financing, the loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios of our assets, the yield on our assets, the targeted leveraged return we expect from our portfolios and our ability to meet ongoing covenants related to our asset mix and financial performance. Currently, neither our charter nor our bylaws impose any limitations on the extent to which we may leverage our assets. Substantially all of our loans and other lending investments and CMBS are pledged, as collateral for our secured borrowings under our CDOs. Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that we can derive from the assets we acquire. For example, we have purchased, and may purchase in the future, both subordinate classes of bonds and certain investment grade classes of bonds in our CDOs which represent leveraged investments in the collateral debt securities and other underlying assets. The use of leverage through such CDOs creates the risk for the holders of these classes of bonds of increased exposure to losses on a leveraged basis as a result of defaults with respect to such collateral debt securities. As a result, the occurrence of defaults with respect to only a small portion of the collateral debt securities could result in the complete loss of the investment of the holders of the subordinate classes of bonds and defaults with respect to larger or a material portion of the collateral debt securities could result in complete or partial losses of the investment of the holders of certain investment grade classes of bonds. Our debt service payments, including payments in connection with any CDOs, reduce our net income available for distributions. Moreover, we may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy our debt obligations. Additionally, our ability to make scheduled payments of principal or interest on, or to refinance, our indebtedness depends on our future performance, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. In particular, the credit crisis, which began in earnest in mid-2007 and spread throughout the global economy in 2008, 2009 and 2010, materially impacted our business. The credit crisis has, among other things, increased our costs of funds, eliminated our access to the unsecured debt markets and adversely affected our results of operations. One of our three CDOs is currently in its reinvestment period which will expire in 2012. The period during which we are permitted to reinvest principal payments on the underlying assets into qualifying replacement collateral for our 2005 CDO and our 2006 CDO expired in July 2010 and July 2011, respectively, and will expire for our 2007 CDO on or before August 2012. In the past, our ability to reinvest has been instrumental in maintaining compliance with the overcollateralization and interest coverage tests for our CDOs. Following the conclusion of the reinvestment period our ability to maintain compliance with such tests for that CDO will be negatively impacted. Additionally, the conclusion of the reinvestment period results in reduced investment activity for us as available cash in the CDOs will generally be used for the repayment of principal on the CDO bonds and will not be available for new investment activity. Potential rating agency downgrades may adversely affect our ability to reinvest CDO proceeds. To date, rating agency downgrades and impairments of our loan investments and CMBS investments have not impeded our right to reinvest CDO proceeds as provided in the operative CDO document. However, there can be no assurance that our right to reinvest CDO proceeds will not be impaired by future rating agency downgrades or investment impairments and, in such event, the cash flows that otherwise would have been payable to us, as the holder of certain junior and senior tranches of notes payable issued by our CDOs, 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS may, depending on circumstances, instead be redirected to pay principal and interest on the most senior tranches of notes payable issued by our CDOs, which are owned by third parties. As a result, such downgrades could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and business. We may be required to repurchase loans that we have sold or to indemnify holders of our CDOs. If any of the loans we originate or acquire and sell or securitize do not comply with representations and warranties that we make about certain characteristics of the loans, the borrowers and the underlying properties, we may be required to repurchase those loans or replace them with substitute loans. In addition, in the case of loans that we have sold instead of retained, we may be required to indemnify persons for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty. Repurchased loans would likely require a significant allocation of working capital to carry on our balance sheet, and our ability to borrow against such assets is limited. Any significant repurchases or indemnification payments could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We believe the Manager, the collateral manager of our CDOs is required to register under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, or the Advisers Act, and is subject to regulation under that Act. In light of provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that modify the Advisers Act and eliminate certain exemptions from registration under the Advisers Act, we believe the Manager is required to register as an investment adviser under the Advisers Act and is subject to, and must comply with, the Advisers Act and the rules promulgated thereunder. Following the registration of the Manager under the Advisers Act, the SEC will oversee the Manager's activities as a registered investment adviser under this regulatory regime. A failure to comply with the obligations imposed by the Advisers Act, including record-keeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities, could result in fines, censure, suspensions of personnel or investing activities or other sanctions, including revocation of the Manager's registration as an investment adviser. The regulations under the Advisers Act are designed primarily to protect investors in funds and clients advised by a registered investment adviser. They are not designed to protect holders of our publicly traded common stock. Even if a sanction imposed against the Manager or its personnel involves a small monetary amount, the adverse publicity related to such sanction could harm our reputation and our relationship with our investors and impede our ability to raise additional capital or new funds. In addition, compliance with the Advisers Act may require us to incur additional costs and these costs may be material. We presently have virtually no additional borrowing capacity. We currently do not have a corporate credit facility to draw against for liquidity purposes and substantially all of our loans and other lending investments are pledged as collateral for our CDOs. As a result, we must fund future funding commitments, if any, and capital expenditures with existing liquidity, including unrestricted cash and cash in our CDOs (if available), or future liquidity resulting from asset sales, which will have a significant impact on our liquidity position. If we are unable to meet future funding commitments or fund required capital expenditures, our borrowers or tenants may take legal action against us, which could have a material adverse effect. Two of our subsidiaries have been named as defendant in two lawsuits and the uncertainty surrounding these cases or the adverse resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on us. Two of our subsidiaries are named as defendants in a case captioned Colfin JIH Funding LLC and CDCF JIH Funding, LLC, or Colony, v. Gramercy Warehouse Funding I LLC and Gramercy Loan Services LLC, which is pending in New York State Supreme Court, New York County. The dispute arises from the financing of the Jameson Inns and Signature Inns. Colony has asserted a breach of contract claim against our subsidiaries and is seeking to recover at least $80 million, which represents the amounts of the mezzanine loans held by Colony, and at least $8 million in enforcement costs, plus attorneys’ fees. On January 23, 2012, our subsidiaries filed counterclaims against Colony for breach of contract, tortious interference with contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and civil conspiracy, and our subsidiaries are seeking to recover at least $80 million in compensatory damages, as well as certain punitive damages and certain costs and fees. Our subsidiaries intend to vigorously defend the claims asserted against them and to pursue all 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS counterclaims against Colony. Colony has moved to dismiss the counterclaims. Additionally, the same two subsidiaries are named as defendants in the case captioned U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee et al v. Gramercy Warehouse Funding I LLC and Gramercy Loan Services LLC, which is pending in New York State Supreme Court, New York County. The dispute also arises from the same financing of the Jameson Inns and Signature Inns. U.S. Bank National Association, or U.S. Bank, by and through its attorney in fact, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., has asserted a breach of contract claim against the subsidiaries and is seeking to recover at least $164 million, which represents the amount of U.S. Bank’s mortgage loan, plus attorneys’ fees and enforcement costs. On January 25, 2012, our subsidiaries filed an answer to U.S. Bank’s complaint. Our subsidiaries intend to vigorously defend the claims asserted against them. These matters are in their preliminary stages, and accordingly, we are not able to assess the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome or estimate the range of potential loss, if any. The uncertainty surrounding these cases or any adverse resolution of these matters could have an adverse effect on us. We have incurred substantial impairments of our loans and other lending investments and may incur significant loan loss reserves/impairments in the future. Due to a variety of factors, including adverse market conditions affecting the real estate market, we have recorded substantial loan loss provisions. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we recorded approximately $48.2 million and $84.4 million, respectively, in loan loss provisions and impairment losses related to our loans and other lending investments. Our debt investments may suffer additional loan loss provisions/impairments in the future causing us to recognize significant losses. If we are unsuccessful in renegotiating, selling or otherwise resolving assets that are currently nonperforming or that we expect will become nonperforming, we may experience loss of principal or reduced income available for distributions. Investors and lenders alike could lose confidence in the quality and value of our assets. These impairments, or the perception that these impairments may occur, can depress our stock price, harm our liquidity and materially adversely impact our results of operations. We may be forced to sell substantial assets at a time when the market is depressed in order to support or enhance our liquidity. Despite our need to sell substantial assets, we may be unable to make such sales on favorable terms or at all, further materially damaging our liquidity and operations. If we are unable to maintain adequate liquidity as a result of these impairments or otherwise, our ability to continue as a going concern would be affected and you could lose some or all of your investment. Our reserves for loan losses may prove inadequate, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We maintain and regularly evaluate financial reserves to protect against potential future losses. Our reserves reflect management’s judgment of the probability and severity of losses. We cannot be certain that our judgment will prove to be correct and that reserves will be adequate over time to protect against potential future losses because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific assets, borrowers, industries in which our borrowers operate or markets in which our borrowers or their properties are located. We must evaluate existing conditions on our debt investments to make determinations to record loan loss reserves on these specific investments. If our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate, we could suffer losses which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Loan loss reserves are particularly difficult to estimate in a turbulent economic environment. Our loan loss reserves are evaluated on a quarterly basis. Our determination of loan loss reserves requires us to make certain estimates and judgments, which are particularly difficult to determine during the current economic environment. Our estimates and judgments are based on a number of factors, including projected cash flows from the collateral securing our commercial real estate loans, loan structure, including the availability of reserves and recourse guarantees, likelihood of repayment in full at the maturity of a loan, potential for a refinancing market returning to commercial real estate in the future and expected market discount rates for varying property types. If our estimates and judgments are not correct, our results of operations and financial condition could be severely impacted. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS There can be no assurance that the actions of the U.S. government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets, or market response to those actions, will achieve the intended effect and our business may not benefit from, and may be adversely impacted by, these actions and further government or market developments could adversely impact us. Since mid-2007 and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all assets classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in the financial institutions, but afterwards in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. The decline in asset values has caused increases in margin calls for investors, requirements that derivatives counterparties post additional collateral and redemptions by mutual and hedge fund investors, all of which have increased the downward pressure on asset values and outflows of client funds across the financial services industry. In addition, the increased redemptions and unavailability of credit have required hedge funds and others to rapidly reduce leverage, which has increased volatility and further contributed to the decline of asset values. In response to the recent unprecedented financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or the EESA, was signed into law on October 3, 2008. The EESA provides the U.S. Secretary of Treasury with the authority to establish a Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, to purchase from financial institutions up to $700 billion of residential or commercial mortgages and any securities, obligations, or other instruments that are based on, or related to, such mortgages, that in each case was originated or issued on or before March 14, 2008. The ESSA also provides for a program that would allow companies to insure their troubled assets. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or ARRA, a $787 billion stimulus bill for the purpose of stabilizing the economy by creating jobs among other things. As of February 12, 2010, the U.S. Treasury is managing or overseeing the following programs under TARP: the Capital Purchase Program, the Systemically Failing Institutions Program, the Auto Industry Financing Program and the Homeowner Affordability, the Legacy Public-Private Investment Program, and Stability Plan, which is partially financed by TARP. There can be no assurance that the EESA, TARP or other programs will have a beneficial impact on the financial markets, including current extreme levels of volatility. In addition, the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. In November 2010, the Federal Reserve initiated a program to purchase up to $600 billion of long-term U.S. Treasury securities by mid-2011 as part of its continuing effort to help stimulate the economy by reducing mortgage and interest rates. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not know what impact the Dodd-Frank Act will have on our business. On July 21, 2010, the United States enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act affects almost every aspect of the U.S. financial services industry, including certain aspects of the markets in which we operate. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes new regulations on us and how we conduct our business. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act will impose additional disclosure requirements for public companies and generally require issuers or originators of asset-backed securities to retain at least five percent of the credit risk associated with the securitized assets. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act will require us to register as an investment advisor with the SEC, which will increase our regulatory compliance costs and subject us to new restrictions as well as penalties for any future non-compliance with these regulations. Importantly, many key aspects of the changes imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act will be established by various regulatory bodies and other groups over the next several years. As a result, we do not know how significantly the Dodd-Frank Act will affect us. It is possible that the Dodd-Frank 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS Act could, among other things, increase our costs of operating as a public company, impose restrictions on our ability to securitize assets and reduce our investment returns on securitized assets. We are required to make a number of judgments in applying accounting policies and different estimates and assumptions in the application of these policies could result in changes to our reporting of financial condition and results of operations. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change relate to the determination for loan losses, the effectiveness of derivatives and other hedging activities, the fair value of certain financial instruments (debt obligations, CMBS, loan assets, securities, derivatives, and privately held investments), CTL investments, deferred income tax assets or liabilities, share-based compensation, and accounting for acquisitions, including the fair value determinations and the analysis of goodwill impairment. While we have identified those accounting policies that are considered critical and have procedures in place to facilitate the associated judgments, different assumptions in the application of these policies could result in material changes to our reports of financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. We rely on a small number of persons who comprise our existing senior management team and our board of directors to implement our business and investment strategies. While we have entered into employment and/or retention agreements with certain members of our senior management team, they may nevertheless cease to provide services to us at any time. Some of these employment and/or retention agreements including agreements with each of our Chief Executive Officer and our President, expire in June 2012 and there can be no assurance that they may be renewed on similar terms or at all. The loss of services of any of our key management personnel or directors or significant numbers of other employees, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel or directors in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business. Quarterly results may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future quarterly performance. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate; therefore, you should not rely on past quarterly results to be indicative of our performance in future quarters. Factors that could cause quarterly operating results to fluctuate include, among others, variations in our investment origination volume, loan loss reserves or impairments, loan maturities, variations in the timing of prepayments, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exclusions and exemptions imposes limits on our operations. We believe that there are a number of exclusions and exemptions under the Investment Company Act that may be applicable to us and we have conducted and intend to continue to conduct our operations so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We will either be excluded from the definition of investment company under Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act, by owning or proposing to acquire “investment securities” having a value not exceeding 40% of the value of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. Government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis, or exempted by qualifying for the exemptions from registration provided by Sections 3(a)(1)(A), 3(c)(5)(C) and/or 3(c)(6) of the Investment Company Act. Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act defines an investment company as any issuer which is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposed to engage primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. We believe we will not be considered an investment company under Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act because we will not engage primarily or hold ourselves out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Section 3(c)(5)(C) exempts from the definition of “investment company” any person who is “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” Additionally, Section 3(c)(6) exempts from the definition of “investment company” any company primarily engaged, directly or through majority-owned subsidiaries, in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate. The assets that we have acquired and may acquire in the future, therefore, are limited by the provisions of the Investment 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS Company Act and the exclusions and exemptions on which we rely. In addition, we could, among other things, be required either (a) to change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (b) to register as an investment company, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business and our ability to pay dividends. To maintain our qualification for an exclusion from registration under the Investment Company Act pursuant to Sections 3(c)(5)(C) and 3(c)(6) at least 55% of our portfolio, or the assets of our majority-owned subsidiaries, must be comprised of qualifying assets under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, and 80% of our portfolio, or the assets of our majority-owned subsidiaries, must be comprised of qualifying assets and real estate-related assets under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act. In addition, we may not issue “redeemable securities.” To comply with the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exemption, we may from time to time buy RMBS and other qualifying assets. We generally expect that mortgage loans, junior (first loss) interests in whole pool CMBS, CTL and other real property investments, certain distressed debt securities and Tier 1 mezzanine loans to be qualifying assets under the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exemption from the Investment Company Act. Tier 1 mezzanine loans are loans granted to a mezzanine borrower that directly owns interests in the entity that owns the property being financed. The treatment of distressed debt securities as qualifying assets is, and will be, based on the characteristics of the particular type of loan, including its foreclosure rights. Although SEC staff no-action letters have not specifically addressed the categorization of these types of assets, we believe junior (first loss) interests in CMBS pools may constitute qualifying assets under Section 3(c)(5)(C) provided that we have the unilateral right to foreclose, directly or indirectly, on the mortgages in the pool and that we may act as the controlling class or directing holder of the pool. Similarly, subordinate interests in whole loans may constitute qualifying assets under Section 3(c)(5)(C) provided that, among other things, approval rights in connection with any material decisions pertaining to the administration and servicing of the relevant mortgage loan and, in the event that the mortgage loan becomes non-performing, we have effective control over the remedies relating to the enforcement of the loan, including ultimate control of the foreclosure process. We generally do not treat non-Tier 1 mezzanine loans and preferred equity investments as qualifying assets. Although we monitor our portfolio periodically and prior to each origination or acquisition of a new asset or disposition of an existing asset, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain an exclusion or exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act. Further, we may not be able to invest in sufficient qualifying and/or real estate-related assets and future revision or interpretations of the Investment Company Act may cause us to lose our exclusion or exemption or force us to re-evaluate our portfolio and our business strategy. Such changes may prevent us from operating our business successfully. No assurance can be given that the SEC staff will concur with our classification of our assets, or that the SEC staff will not, in the future, issue further guidance that may require us to reclassify those assets for purpose of qualifying for an exemption or exclusion from regulation under the Investment Company Act. To the extent that the staff of the SEC provides more specific guidance regarding any of the matters bearing upon the definition of investment company and the exceptions to that definition, we may be required to adjust our investment strategy accordingly. Any additional guidance from the staff of the SEC could provide additional flexibility to us, or it could further inhibit our ability to pursue the investment strategy we have chosen. In August 2011, the SEC solicited public comment on a wide range of issues relating to Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, including the nature of the assets that qualify for purposes of the exemption and whether mortgage REITs should be regulated in a manner similar to investment companies. There can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing the Investment Company Act status of REITs, including the Division of Investment Management of the SEC providing more specific or different guidance regarding these exemptions, will not change in a manner that adversely affects our operations. If we or our subsidiaries fail to maintain an exception or exemption from the Investment Company Act, we could, among other things, be required either to (a) change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company, (b) effect sales of our assets in a manner that, or at a time when, we would not otherwise choose to do so, or (c) register as an investment company, any of which would negatively affect the value of our common stock, the sustainability of our business model, and our ability to make distributions which could have an adverse effect on our business and the market price for our shares of common stock. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS In consultation with legal and tax advisors, we periodically evaluate our assets, and also evaluate prior to an acquisition or origination the structure of each prospective investment or asset, to determine whether we avoid coming within the definition of investment company in Section 3(a)(1)(C) and/or whether we believe the investment will be a qualifying asset for purposes of maintaining the exemptions found in Sections 3(c)(5)(C) and/or 3(c)(6) from registration under the Investment Company Act. We consult with counsel to assist us with such determination as appropriate. If we are obligated to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act, including limitations on capital structure, restrictions on specified investments, prohibitions on transactions with affiliates, changes in the composition of our board of directors and compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly change our operations. Rapid changes in the values of our CMBS and other real estate related investments may make it more difficult for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT or exemption from the Investment Company Act. If the market value or income potential of our CMBS and other real estate-related investments declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates or other factors, we may need to increase our real estate investments and income and/or liquidate our non-qualifying assets in order to maintain our REIT qualification or exemption from the Investment Company Act. If the decline in real estate asset values and/or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish. This difficulty may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of many of our non-real estate assets. We may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the REIT qualification and Investment Company Act exemption considerations. We may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses. Recent market conditions have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. The models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. In times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. These types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. These changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. In these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. To the extent that we make investments that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. We reported a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and if we are unable to improve our internal controls, our financial results may not be accurately reported. Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 identified a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting as described in Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” This material weakness, or difficulties encountered in implementing new or improved controls or remediation, could prevent us from accurately reporting our financial results, result in material misstatements in our financial statements or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Failure to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, the price of our common stock and market confidence in our reported financial information. 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may experience reductions in portfolio income which would reduce our ability to make distributions over time. Due to our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, if any, to stockholders. We may experience declines in the size of the investment portfolio over time. A reduction in the size of our portfolio would also result in reduced income available for distribution and thereby lessen our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If we fail to achieve adequate operating cash flow, our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected. As a REIT, we must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, if any, to our stockholders, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. Our ability to make and sustain cash distributions is based on many factors, including the return on our investments, operating expense levels, the extent of cash distributions from our CDOs, and certain restrictions imposed by Maryland law. Some of the factors are beyond our control and a change in any such factor could affect our ability to pay future dividends. No assurance can be given as to our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Reduction of our gross assets pursuant to the transfers completed pursuant to the Settlement Agreement may jeopardize our qualification as a REIT or exemption from the Investment Company Act. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirement regarding our assets and our sources of income. In connection with the Settlement Agreement, we transferred a significant amount of assets to KBS and we now comply with REIT requirements and exemptions from the Investment Company Act with a significantly smaller asset base and a significantly smaller compliance margin. If our number of qualified assets and the income generated from those assets continues to decline, we may be unable to comply with these requirements which may ultimately jeopardize our qualification as a REIT or exemption from the Investment Company Act, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and business. The competitive pressures we face as a result of operating in a highly competitive market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The current state of the global credit markets has resulted in a lack of liquidity and significant volatility in the types of asset classes that we have historically invested. These disruptions are currently and are expected to continue to limit our ability and our competitors’ ability to execute on historical investment strategies. Upon the return of liquidity to the credit markets, we expect to continue to encounter significant competition in seeking investments. We have significant competition with respect to our acquisition and origination of assets with many other companies, including other REITs, insurance companies, commercial banks, private investment funds, hedge funds, specialty finance companies and other investors. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, there is significant competition on a national, regional and local level with respect to property management services and in commercial real estate services generally and we are subject to competition from large national and multi-national firms as well as local or regional firms that offer similar services to ours. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and operational resources, larger customer bases, and more established relationships with their customers and suppliers than we do. The competitive pressures we face, if not effectively managed, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive origination and investment opportunities and therefore may not be able to identify and pursue opportunities that are consistent with our objectives. Competition may limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us. It may also result in higher prices, lower yields and a narrower spread of yields over our borrowing costs, making it more difficult for us to acquire new investments on attractive terms. In addition, competition for 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS desirable investments could delay the investment in desirable assets, which may in turn reduce our earnings per share and negatively affect our ability to declare distributions to our stockholders. We may change our investment and operational policies without stockholder consent. We may change our investment and operational policies, including our policies with respect to investments, acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the types of investments described in this filing. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations, all of which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the market for our common stock, the industry in which we conduct our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may harm our results of operations and the stockholders’ investment. We cannot assure the stockholders that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the U.S. or U.S. businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact the property underlying our asset-based securities or the securities markets in general. Losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets and economy. Adverse economic conditions could harm the value of our properties, the property underlying our asset-backed securities or the securities markets in general which could harm our operating results and revenues and may result in increased volatility of the value of our securities. We are highly dependent on information systems and third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems, some of which are provided by third parties. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Lack of diversification in number of investments increases our dependence on individual investments. If we acquire larger loans or property interests, our portfolio will be concentrated in a smaller number of assets, increasing the risk of loss to stockholders if a default or other problem arises. Alternatively, if through loan repayments, loan resolutions or property sales we reduce the aggregate amount of our debt investment portfolio or our property investment portfolio, and number of investments in either or each, our portfolio may become concentrated in larger assets, thereby reducing the benefits of diversification by geography, property type, tenancy or other measures. Risk Relating to Our Capital Structure and Access to Liquidity Our CDO financing agreements may limit our ability to make investments. Each CDO financing that we engage in contains certain eligibility criteria with respect to the collateral that we seek to acquire and sell to the CDO issuer. If the collateral does not meet the eligibility criteria for eligible collateral asset forth in the transaction documents of such CDO transaction, we may not be able to acquire and sell such collateral to the CDO issuer. The inability of the collateral to meet eligibility requirements with respect to our CDOs may limit our ability to execute our business plan. In the event that an investment that we believe is favorable to our company does not meet eligibility requirements for our CDOs, we may be unable to obtain alternative financing for such investment. We may not be able to issue CDO securities on attractive terms or at all, which may require us to seek more costly financing for our investments or to liquidate assets. Conditions in the capital markets have made the issuance of a CDO unavailable. Historically, we have relied, to a substantial extent, on CDO financings to obtain match funded financing for our investments. 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS Unless and until the market for commercial real estate CDOs recovers, we may be unable to utilize CDOs to finance our investments and we may need to utilize less favorable sources of financing to finance our investments on a long-term basis, if available. If such other forms of long-term financing are unavailable, it may be necessary to fund our investments using shorter-term debt financing, in which case we would not meet our objective of match funding for substantially all of our investments. There can be no assurance as to whether or when demand for commercial real estate CDOs will return or the terms of such securities investors will demand or whether we will be able to issue CDOs to finance our investments on terms beneficial to us. If we issue senior securities we will be exposed to additional restrictive covenants and limitations on our operating flexibility, which could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends. If we decide to issue senior securities in the future, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Holders of senior securities may be granted specific rights, including but not limited to: the right to hold a perfected security interest in certain of our assets, the right to accelerate payments due under the indenture, rights to restrict dividend payments and rights to require approval to sell assets. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. We, and indirectly our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. We may not be able to access financing sources on favorable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and our ability to distribute dividends. We have financed our assets through a variety of means, including mortgages, mezzanine loans, repurchase agreements, secured and unsecured credit facilities, CDOs, other structured financings and trust preferred securities. Our ability to execute this strategy depends on various conditions in the markets for financing in this manner which are beyond our control, including lack of liquidity and wider credit spreads. We cannot be certain that these markets, especially the structured finance markets, will provide an efficient source of long-term financing for our assets. Our ability to finance through CDOs is subject to a level of investor demand which has almost entirely been curtailed. If our strategy is not viable, we will have to attempt to find alternative forms of long-term financing for our assets, such as secured revolving credit facilities and repurchase facilities, if available. This could subject us to more recourse indebtedness and the risk that debt service on less efficient forms of financing would require a larger portion of our cash flows, to service our debt thereby reducing cash available for distribution to our stockholders, funds available for operations as well as for future business opportunities. In addition, we depend upon the availability of adequate financing sources and capital for our operations. As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain, to our stockholders and are therefore not able to retain our earnings for new investments. We cannot be certain that any, or sufficient, funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. Furthermore, if the minimum dividend distribution required to maintain our REIT qualification becomes large relative to our cash flow due to our taxable income exceeding our cash flow from operations, then we could be forced to borrow funds, sell assets or raise capital on unfavorable terms, if we are able to at all, in order to maintain our REIT qualification. In the event that we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the market price of our common shares and our ability to distribute dividends. Interest rate fluctuations could reduce our ability to generate income on our investments. The yield on our investments in real estate securities and loans is sensitive to changes in prevailing interest rates and changes in prepayment rates. Changes in interest rates can affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning investments and the interest expense we incur in financing these investments. We tend to price loans at a spread to either United States Treasury obligations, swaps or LIBOR. A decrease in these indexes will lower the yield on our investments, except to the extent certain of our loans contain floors below which the interest rate cannot decline. Conversely, if these indexes rise materially, borrowers may be unable to meet their debt service 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS requirements and borrow the higher-leverage loans that we target. For more information on interest rate risk, see Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase while the interest we earn on our fixed-rate investments would not change, which would adversely affect our profitability. Our operating results depend in large part on differences between the income from our investments, net of financing costs. In most cases, for any period during which our investments are not match-funded, the income from such debt investments will respond more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of our borrowings. Consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may significantly influence our net income. Increases in these rates will tend to decrease our net income and market value of our investments. Interest rate fluctuations resulting in our interest expense exceeding our interest income would result in operating losses for us and may limit or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. For more information on interest rate risk, see Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If credit spreads widen before we obtain long-term financing for our assets, the value of our assets may suffer. We price our assets based on our assumptions about future credit spreads for financing of those assets. We have obtained, and may obtain in the future, longer term financing for our assets using structured financing techniques. Such issuances entail interest rates set at a spread over a certain benchmark, such as the yield on United States Treasury obligations, swaps or LIBOR. If the spread that investors are paying on our current structured finance vehicles and will pay on future structured finance vehicles we may engage in over the benchmark widens and the rates we are charging or will charge on our securitized assets are not increased accordingly, our income may be reduced or we could suffer losses, which could affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Investments Some of our portfolio investments may be recorded at fair value, as a result, there will be uncertainty as to the value of these investments. Changes in the market values of our investments in securities available for sale will be directly charged or credited to stockholders’ equity. As a result, a decline in values may reduce the book value of our assets. Moreover, if the decline in value of a security is other-than-temporary, such decline will reduce earnings. Any such charges may result in volatility in our reported earnings and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Some of our portfolio investments may be in the form of securities, including CMBS, that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We value these investments quarterly. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. We may not realize gains or income from our investments. We seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation. However, our investments may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value, and the debt securities we invest in may default on interest and/or principal payments. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains or income from our investments. Any gains that we do realize may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Any income that we realize may not be sufficient to offset our expenses. We may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic changes in geographic areas where our properties or the properties underlying our investments are concentrated. Adverse conditions in the areas where our properties or the properties underlying our investments are located (including business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS factors) and local real estate conditions (such as oversupply of, or reduced demand for, office, industrial or retail properties) may have an adverse effect on the value of our properties. A material decline in the demand or the ability of tenants to pay rent for office, industrial or retail space in these geographic areas may result in a material decline in our cash available for distribution. The commercial mortgage and mezzanine loans we originate or acquire and the commercial mortgage loans underlying the CMBS in which we invest are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us. Our commercial mortgage and mezzanine loans are secured by commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss that are greater than similar risks associated with loans made on the security of single-family residential property. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of the property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by, among other things, tenant mix, success of tenant businesses, property management decisions, property location and condition, competition from comparable types of properties, changes in laws that increase operating expenses or limit rents that may be charged, any need to address environmental contamination at the property, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments, declines in regional or local real estate values, declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates, increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses, and changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. Joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer’s financial condition. We co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. Therefore, we will not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding that property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals. These investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Consequently, actions by such partner, co-tenant or co-venturer might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. Some of our loans are participation interests in loans, or co-lender arrangements, in which we share the rights, obligations and benefits of the loan with other lenders. We may need the consent of these parties to exercise our rights under such loans, including rights with respect to amendment of loan documentation, enforcement proceedings in the event of default and the institution of, and control over, foreclosure proceedings. Similarly, a majority of the participants may be able to take actions to which we object but to which we will be bound if our participation interest represents a minority interest. We may be adversely affected by this lack of complete control. We may in the future enter, into joint venture agreements that contain terms in favor of our partners that may have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures. For example, we may be entitled under a particular joint venture agreement to an economic share in the profits of the joint venture that is smaller than our ownership percentage in the joint venture, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such profits and our partner may have rights to buy our interest in the joint venture, to force us to buy the partner’s interest in the joint venture or to compel the sale of the property owned by such joint venture. These rights may permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit from the value or profits of the joint venture 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS than us, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our investment in the joint venture and on our financial condition and results of operations. Liability relating to environmental matters may impact the value of the properties that we may acquire or underlying our investments. Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on its property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. If we fail to disclose environmental issues, we could also be liable to a buyer or lessee of a property. There may be environmental problems associated with our properties which we were unaware of at the time of acquisition. The presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect an owner’s ability to sell real estate or borrow using real estate as collateral. To the extent that an owner of a property underlying one of our debt investments becomes liable for removal costs, the ability of the owner to make debt payments to us may be reduced. This, in turn, may adversely affect the value of the relevant mortgage asset held by us and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. The presence of hazardous substances, if any, on our properties may adversely affect our ability to sell an affected property and we may incur substantial remediation costs, thus harming our financial condition. In addition, although our leases, if any, will generally require our tenants to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising from a tenant’s activities on the property, we nonetheless would be subject to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interest for environmental liabilities created by such tenants, and we cannot ensure the stockholders that any tenants we might have would satisfy their indemnification obligations under the applicable sales agreement or lease. The discovery of material environmental liabilities attached to such properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot be assured that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future. Part of our investment strategy may involve entering into derivative contracts that could require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances, e.g., the early termination of the derivative agreement caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the derivative contract. The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS also include other fees and charges. These economic losses would be reflected in our financial results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. Risks Relating Primarily to Gramercy Realty A significant portion of our properties are leased to financial institutions, making us more economically vulnerable in the event of a downturn in the banking industry. A significant portion of our 2011 revenue was derived from leases to financial institutions. Individual banks, as well as the banking industry in general, may be adversely affected by negative economic and market conditions throughout the United States or in the local economies in which regional or community banks operate, including negative conditions caused by the recent disruptions in the financial markets. In addition, changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws, including interest rate policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, may have an adverse impact on banks’ loan portfolios and allowances for loan losses. As a result, we may experience higher rates of lease default or terminations in the event of a downturn in the banking industry than we would if our tenant base was more diversified. Rising operating expenses relating to our properties could reduce our cash flow and funds available for future distributions. Our properties are subject to operating risks common to real estate in general, any or all of which may negatively affect us. If the properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet expenses, including debt service, tenant improvements, leasing commissions and other capital expenditures, our cash flow will be negatively impacted and we may have to utilize our existing liquidity to cover these expenses or risk forfeiture of the assets if we default on any associated debt obligations. The bankruptcy or insolvency of our tenants under their leases or delays by our tenants in making rental payments could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. Any bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of our tenants could bar us from collecting pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or its property, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from the bankruptcy court. A tenant bankruptcy could delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. Any unsecured claim we hold against a bankrupt entity may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. We may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims, which would harm our financial condition. Many of our tenants are banks that are not eligible to be debtors under the federal bankruptcy code, but would be subject to the liquidation and insolvency provisions of applicable banking laws and regulations. If the FDIC were appointed as receiver of a banking tenant because of a tenant’s insolvency, we would become an unsecured creditor of the tenant and be entitled to share with the other unsecured non-depositor creditors in the tenant’s assets on an equal basis after payment to the depositors of their claims. The FDIC has broad powers to reject any contract (including a lease) of a failed depository institution that the FDIC deems burdensome if the FDIC determines that such rejection is necessary to promise the orderly administration of the institution’s affairs. By federal statute, a landlord under a lease rejected by the FDIC is not entitled to claim any damages with respect to the disaffirmation, other than rent through the effective date of the disaffirmation. The amount paid on claims in respect of the lease would depend on, among other factors, the amount of assets of the insolvent tenant available for unsecured claims. We may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to stockholders at historical levels or at all. We structure many of our real property acquisitions using complex structures often based on forecasted results for the acquisitions, and if the acquired properties underperforms forecasted results, our financial condition and operating results may be harmed. We may acquire some of our properties under complex structures that we tailor to meet the specific needs of the tenants and/or sellers. For instance, we may enter into transactions under which a portion of the 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS properties are vacant or will be vacant following the completion of the acquisition. If we fail to accurately forecast the leasing of such properties following our acquisition, our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to stockholders, may be adversely impacted. Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property. In addition, the presence of significant mold could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants and others if property damage or health concerns arise. Our properties may contain asbestos which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating asbestos. Certain laws and regulations govern the removal, encapsulation or disturbance of asbestos-containing materials, or ACMs, when those materials are in poor condition or in the event of building renovation or demolition, impose certain worker protection and notification requirements, and govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. These laws may also impose liability for a release of ACMs and may enable third parties to seek recovery against us for personal injury associated with ACMs. There are or may be ACMs at certain of our properties. We have either developed and implemented or are in the process of developing and implementing operations and maintenance programs that establish operating procedures with respect to ACMs. In March 2005, GAAP clarified that the term conditional asset retirement obligation as a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and (or) method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity. The obligation to perform the asset retirement activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists about the timing and (or) method of settlement. Thus, the timing and (or) method of settlement may be conditional on a future event. Accordingly, an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. The fair value of a liability for the conditional asset retirement obligation is recognized when incurred — generally upon acquisition, construction, or development and (or) through the normal operation of the asset. To comply with GAAP we assessed the cost associated with our legal obligation to remediate asbestos in our properties known to contain asbestos. We believe that the majority of the costs associated with our remediation of asbestos have been identified and recorded in compliance with GAAP, however other obligations associated with asbestos in our properties may exist. Other obligations associated with asbestos in our properties will be recorded in our consolidated statement of operations in the future when/if the cost is incurred. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that adversely impact our ability to pay dividends to stockholders at historical levels or at all. All of our properties are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act. The Americans with Disabilities Act has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants or both. While the tenants to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act provisions with respect to their operations, we could be required to expend our own funds to achieve such compliance should our tenants fail to do so. In addition, we (and not our 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS tenants) are generally required to comply with Americans with Disabilities Act provisions within the parking lots, access ways and other common areas of the properties we own and to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to pay dividends to stockholders at historical levels or at all. An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the policies on our properties could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties. Under the terms and conditions of the leases currently in force on our properties, tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons, air, water, land or property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted on the properties, except for claims arising from the negligence or intentional misconduct of us or our agents. Additionally, tenants are generally required, at the tenants’ expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies issued by companies holding general policyholder ratings of at least “A” as set forth in the most current issue of Best’s Insurance Guide. Insurance policies for property damage are generally in amounts not less than the full replacement cost of the improvements less slab, foundations, supports and other customarily excluded improvements and insure against all perils of fire, extended coverage, vandalism, malicious mischief and special extended perils (“all risk,” as that term is used in the insurance industry). Insurance policies are generally obtained by the tenant providing general liability coverage varying between $1.0 million and $10.0 million depending on the facts and circumstances surrounding the tenant and the industry in which it operates. These policies include liability coverage for bodily injury and property damage arising out of the ownership, use, occupancy or maintenance of the properties and all of their appurtenant areas. In addition to the indemnities and required insurance policies identified above, many of our properties are also covered by flood and earthquake insurance policies obtained by and paid for by the tenants as part of their risk management programs. Additionally, we have obtained blanket liability and property damage insurance policies to protect us and our properties against loss should the indemnities and insurance policies provided by the tenants fail to restore the properties to their condition prior to a loss. All of these policies may involve substantial deductibles and certain exclusions. In certain areas, we may have to obtain earthquake and flood insurance on specific properties as required by our lenders or by law. We have also obtained terrorism insurance on some of our larger office buildings, but this insurance is subject to exclusions for loss or damage caused by nuclear substances, pollutants, contaminants and biological and chemical weapons. Should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to stockholders at historical levels or at all. Our real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property. We own both assets secured by real estate and real estate directly. Real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property, including: • acts of God, including earthquakes floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses; • acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks; • adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions, including the credit and securitization markets; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; • the perceptions of prospective tenants of the attractiveness of the properties; • costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions; and 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS • the potential for uninsured or under-insured property losses. If any of these or similar events occur, it may reduce our return from an affected property or investment and reduce or eliminate our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our real estate investments may be illiquid, which could restrict our ability to respond rapidly to changes in economic conditions. The real estate and real estate-related assets in which we invest are generally illiquid. In addition, the instruments that we purchase in connection with privately negotiated transactions are not registered under the relevant securities laws, resulting in a prohibition against their transfer, sale, pledge or other disposition except in a transaction that is exempt from the registration requirements of, or is otherwise in accordance with, those laws. As a result, our ability to sell under-performing assets in our portfolio or respond to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited. CTL and real estate investments may generate losses. The value of our investments and the income from our real estate investments may be significantly adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • national, state and local economic climates; • real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of or a reduction in demand for real estate space in the area; • the perceptions of tenants and prospective tenants of the convenience, attractiveness and safety of our properties; • competition from comparable properties; • the occupancy rate of our properties; • the ability to collect on a timely basis all rent from tenants; • the effects of any bankruptcies or insolvencies of major tenants; • the expense of re-leasing space; • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funding; • the impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws; • cost of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act; • adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies; • civil unrest; • acts of nature, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters (which may result in uninsured losses); • acts of terrorism or war; and • adverse changes in zoning laws; and other factors which are beyond our control. We may experience losses if the creditworthiness of our tenants deteriorates and they are unable to meet their obligations under our leases. We own the properties leased to the tenants of our CTL and real estate investments and we receive rents from the tenants during the terms of our leases. A tenant’s ability to pay rent is determined by the creditworthiness of the tenant. If a tenant’s credit deteriorates, the tenant may default on its obligations under our lease and the tenant may also become bankrupt. The bankruptcy or insolvency of our tenants or other failure to pay is likely to adversely affect the income produced by our CTL and real estate investments. If a tenant defaults, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. If a tenant files for bankruptcy, we may not be able to evict the tenant solely because of such bankruptcy or 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS failure to pay. A court, however, may authorize a tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. In such a case, our claim against the tenant for unpaid, future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent owed under the lease. In addition, certain amounts paid to us within 90 days prior to the tenant’s bankruptcy filing could be required to be returned to the tenant’s bankruptcy estate. In any event, it is highly unlikely that a bankrupt or insolvent tenant would pay in full amounts it owes us under a lease. In other circumstances, where a tenant’s financial condition has become impaired, we may agree to partially or wholly terminate the lease in advance of the termination date in consideration for a lease termination fee that is likely less than the agreed rental amount. Without regard to the manner in which the lease termination occurs, we are likely to incur additional costs in the form of tenant improvements and leasing commissions in our efforts to lease the space to a new tenant. In any of the foregoing circumstances, our financial performance, the market prices of our securities and our ability to pay dividends could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to relet or renew leases at the properties held by us on terms favorable to us. We are subject to risks that upon expiration or earlier termination of the leases for space located at our properties the space may not be relet or, if relet, the terms of the renewal or reletting (including the costs of required renovations or concessions to tenants) may be less favorable that current lease terms. Any of these situations may result in extended periods where there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by a property. If we are unable to relet or renew leases for all or substantially all of the spaces at these properties, if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected, or if our reserves for these purposes prove inadequate, we will experience a reduction in net income and may be required to reduce or eliminate distributions to our stockholders. Lease defaults or terminations or landlord-tenant disputes may adversely reduce our income from our leased property portfolio. Lease defaults or terminations by one or more of our significant tenants may reduce our revenues unless a default in cured or a suitable replacement tenant is found promptly. In addition, disputes may arise between the landlord and tenant that result in the tenant withholding rent payments, possibly for an extended period. These disputes may lead to litigation or other legal procedures to secure payment of the rent withheld or to evict the tenant. Any of these situations may result in extended periods during which there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by the property. If this were to occur, it could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with operating our property management business. We will encounter risks and difficulties as we operate our property management business. In order to achieve our goals as a property manager, we must: • actively manage the assets in such portfolios in order to realize targeted performance; and • create incentives for our management and professional staff to develop and operate the property management business. If we do not successfully operate our property management business to achieve the investment returns that we or the market anticipates, our operations may be adversely impacted. Risks Relating Primarily to Gramercy Finance Our borrowers may increasingly be unable to achieve their business plans due to the economic environment and strain on commercial real estate, which may cause stress in our commercial real estate loan portfolio. Many of our commercial real estate loans were made to borrowers who had a business plan to improve the collateral property. The current economic environment has created a number of obstacles to borrowers attempting to achieve their business plans, including lower occupancy rates and lower lease rates across all property types, which continues to be exacerbated by high unemployment and overall financial uncertainty. If borrowers are unable achieve their business plans, the related commercial real estate loans could go into default and severely impact our operating results and cash flows. 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS A prolonged economic slowdown, a lengthy or severe recession, a reduction in liquidity, or declining real estate values could harm our operations. We believe the risk associated with our business is more severe during periods of economic slowdown or recession if these periods are accompanied by declining real estate values. Declining real estate values will likely reduce our level of new mortgage loan originations, since borrowers often use increases in the value of their existing properties to support the purchase or investment in additional properties. Borrowers may also be less able to pay principal and interest on our loans if the real estate economy weakens. Further, declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that we will incur losses on our loans in the event of default because the value of our collateral may be insufficient to recover the carrying value of the loan. A reduction in capital markets liquidity may cause difficulties for borrowers seeking to refinance existing loans at or prior to maturity, even in instances of satisfactory property cash flow and collateral value. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect both our net interest income from loans in our portfolio as well as our ability to originate, sell and securitize loans, which would significantly harm our revenues, results of operations, financial condition, business prospects and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Markets have experienced, and may continue to experience, periods of high volatility accompanied by reduced liquidity. Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating investment portfolio losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. Severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and we could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to occur, such as the recent conditions in the global financial markets and global economy. Many of our commercial real estate loans are funded with interest reserves and our borrowers may be unable to replenish those interest reserves once they are depleted. Given the transitional nature of many of our commercial real estate loans, we required borrowers to pre-fund reserves to cover interest and operating expenses until the property cash flows were projected to increase sufficiently to cover debt service costs. We also generally require the borrower to replenish reserves if they became deficient due to underperformance or if the borrower wanted to exercise extension options under the loan. Despite low interest rates, revenues on the properties underlying any commercial real estate loan investments will likely decrease in the current economic environment, making it more difficult for borrowers to meet their payment obligations to us. We expect that in the future some of our borrowers may have difficulty servicing our debt and will not have sufficient capital to replenish reserves, which could have a significant impact on our operating results and cash flow. We currently have certain debt investments that permit interest to be accrued until the loans’ maturity or refinancing. We currently have several debt investments that provide for interest accrual, in whole or in part, through loan maturity or refinancing. For loans of this type, often referred to as PIK loans, the time period between interest accrual and collection (as additional loan principal) may extend for 12 months or longer, depending on the term of the PIK loan. The loans we invest in and the commercial mortgage loans underlying the CMBS we invest in are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss. Commercial mortgage loans are secured by commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss. CMBS evidence interests in or are secured by a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans. These risks of loss are greater than similar risks associated with loans made on the security of single-family residential property. The ability of a borrower to pay principal and interest on a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of the property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by a number of conditions beyond our control, including: • tenant mix; • success of tenant businesses; • property management decisions; • property location and condition; • competition from comparable types of properties; • changes in laws that increase operating expense or limit rents that may be charged; • any need to address environmental contamination at the property; • the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property; • changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments; • declines in regional or local real estate values; • declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates; • increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses; and • changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. Any of these factors could have an adverse affect on the ability of the borrower to make payments of principal and interest in a timely fashion, or at all, on the mortgage loans in which we invest and could adversely affect the cash flows we intend to receive from these investments. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear the risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest on the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to the borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process which could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. The subordinate interests in whole loans in which we invest may be subject to additional risks relating to the privately negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may result in losses to us. A subordinate interest in a whole loan is a mortgage loan typically (i) secured by a whole loan on a single large commercial property or group of related properties and (ii) subordinated to a senior interest secured by the same whole loan on the same collateral. As a result, if a borrower defaults, there may not be sufficient funds remaining for subordinate interest owners after payment to the senior interest owners. Subordinate interests reflect similar credit risks to comparably rated CMBS. However, since each transaction is privately negotiated, subordinate interests can vary in their structural characteristics and risks. For example, the rights of holders of subordinate interests to control the process following a borrower default may be limited in certain investments. We cannot predict the terms of each subordinate investment. Further, subordinate interests typically are secured by a single property, and so reflect the increased risks associated with a single property compared to a pool of properties. Subordinate interests also are less liquid than CMBS, thus we may be unable to dispose of underperforming or non-performing investments. The higher risks associated with our subordinate position in these investments could subject us to increased risk of losses. 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS Investments in mezzanine loans involve greater risks of loss than senior loans. Investments in mezzanine loans are secured by a pledge of the ownership interests in the entity that directly or indirectly owns the property. These types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than a senior mortgage loan because the investment may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. Frequently, senior loans mature simultaneously and unless extended, the investments in the mezzanine loans may be severely impaired. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the property owning entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to satisfy our mezzanine loan. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in losses. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan to value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. We evaluate the collectability of both interest and principal of each of our loans, if circumstances warrant, to determine whether they are impaired. A loan is impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the existing contractual terms. When a loan is impaired, the amount of the loss provision is calculated by comparing the carrying amount of the investment to the value determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at the loan’s effective interest rate or, as a practical expedient, to the value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. We cannot be certain that our estimates of collectible amounts will not change over time or that they will be representative of the amounts we actually collect, including amounts we would collect if we chose to sell these investments before their maturity. If we collect less than our estimates, we will record charges which could be material. Investment in non-conforming and non-investment grade loans may involve increased risk of loss. We have acquired or originated, and may continue to acquire or originate in the future, certain loans that do not conform to conventional loan criteria applied by traditional lenders and are not rated or are rated as non-investment grade (for example, for investments rated by Moody’s Investors Service, ratings lower than Baa3, and for Standard & Poor’s, BBB- or below). The non-investment grade ratings for these loans typically result from the overall leverage of the loans, the lack of a strong operating history for the properties underlying the loans, the borrowers’ credit history, the properties’ underlying cash flow or other factors. As a result, these loans have a higher risk of default and loss than conventional loans. Any loss we incur may reduce distributions to our stockholders. There are no limits on the percentage of unrated or non-investment grade assets we may hold in our portfolio. Bridge loans involve a greater risk of loss than traditional mortgage loans. We provide bridge loans secured by first lien mortgages on a property to borrowers who are typically seeking short-term capital to be used in an acquisition or renovation of real estate. The borrower has usually identified an undervalued asset that has been under-managed or is located in a recovering market. If the market in which the asset is located fails to recover according to the borrower’s projections, or if the borrower fails to improve the quality of the asset’s management or the value of the asset, the borrower may not receive a sufficient return on the asset to satisfy the bridge loan, and we may not recover some or all of our investment. In addition, owners usually borrow funds under a conventional mortgage loan to repay a bridge loan. We may therefore be dependent on a borrower’s ability to obtain permanent financing to repay our bridge loan, which could depend on market conditions and other factors. Bridge loans are also subject to risks of borrower defaults, bankruptcies, fraud, losses and special hazard losses that are not covered by standard hazard insurance. In the event of any default under bridge loans held by us, we bear the risk of loss of principal and non-payment of interest and fees to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the mortgage collateral and the principal amount of the bridge loan. To the extent we suffer such losses with respect to our investments in bridge loans, the value of our company and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS Preferred equity investments involve a greater risk of loss than traditional debt financing. Preferred equity investments are subordinate to debt financing and are not secured. Should the issuer default on our investment, we would only be able to proceed against the entity that issued the preferred equity in accordance with the terms of the preferred security, and not any property owned by the entity. Furthermore, in the event of bankruptcy or foreclosure, we would only be able to recoup our investment after any lenders to the entity are paid. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in losses. We may not have control over certain of our loans and investments. Our ability to manage our portfolio of loans and investments may be limited by the form in which they are made. In certain situations, we or our investment management vehicles may: • acquire investments subject to rights of senior classes and servicers under inter-creditor or servicing agreements; • acquire only a minority and/or a non-controlling participation in an underlying investment; • co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, thereby acquiring non-controlling interests; or • rely on independent third party management or strategic partners with respect to the management of an asset. We may make investments in assets with lower credit quality, which will increase our risk of losses. Substantially all of our securities investments have explicit ratings assigned by at least one of the three leading nationally-recognized statistical rating agencies. However, we may invest in unrated securities or participate in unrated or distressed mortgage loans. An economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality investments and securities because the ability of the obligors of mortgages, including mortgages underlying CMBS, to make principal and interest payments may be impaired. If this were to occur, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these investments and securities. We have not established and do not currently plan to establish any investment criteria to limit our exposure to these risks for future investments. Our investments in subordinate loans and subordinated CMBS are subject to losses. We acquire subordinated loans and may invest in subordinated CMBS. In the event a borrower defaults on a loan and lacks sufficient assets to satisfy our loan, we may suffer a loss of principal or interest. In the event a borrower declares bankruptcy, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the borrower, or the assets of the borrower may not be sufficient to satisfy the loan. In addition, certain of our loans may be subordinate to other debt of the borrower. If a borrower defaults on our loan or on debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full. Where debt senior to our loan exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies (through “standstill periods”) and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. In general, losses on a mortgage loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the equity holder of the property, then by a cash reserve fund or letter of credit, if any, and then by the “first loss” subordinated security holder. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit and any classes of securities junior to those in which we invest, we will not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities we purchase. Likewise, we may not be able to recover some or all of our investment in certain subordinated loans in which we obtain interests. In addition, if the underlying mortgage portfolio has been overvalued by the originator, or if the value subsequently declines and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related CMBS, the securities in which we invest may effectively become the “first loss” position behind the more senior securities, which may result in significant losses to us. An economic slowdown or recession, such as we are experiencing, could increase the risk of loss on our investments in subordinated CMBS. The prices of lower credit-quality securities, such as the subordinated 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS CMBS in which we may invest, are very sensitive to adverse economic downturns or individual property developments. An economic downturn or a projection of an economic downturn could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors of mortgages underlying CMBS to make principal and interest payments may be impaired. In such event, existing credit support to a securitized structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these securities. Our due diligence may not reveal all of a borrower’s liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in its business. Before making a loan to a borrower, we assess the strength and skills of such entity’s management and other factors that we believe are material to the performance of the investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly subjective with respect to newly organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. There can be no assurance that our due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. We are subject to the risk that provisions of our loan agreements may be unenforceable. Our rights and obligations with respect to our loans are governed by written loan agreements and related documentation. It is possible that a court could determine that one or more provisions of a loan agreement are unenforceable, such as a loan prepayment provision or the provisions governing our security interest in the underlying collateral. If this were to happen with respect to a material asset or group of assets we could be adversely affected. Credit ratings assigned to our CMBS investments are subject to ongoing evaluation and we cannot assure you that the ratings currently assigned to our investments will not be downgraded or that they accurately reflect the risks associated with those investments. Some of the CMBS securities in which we invest are rated by S&P, Moody’s and/or Fitch. Rating agencies rate these investments based upon their assessment of the perceived safety of the receipt of principal and interest payments from the issuers of such debt securities. Credit ratings assigned by the rating agencies may not fully reflect the true risks of an investment in such securities. Also, rating agencies may fail to make timely adjustments to credit ratings based on recently available data or changes in economic outlook or may otherwise fail to make changes in credit ratings in response to subsequent events, so that our investments may in fact be better or worse than the ratings indicate. We try to reduce the impact of the risk that a credit rating may not accurately reflect the risks associated with a particular debt security by not relying solely on credit ratings as the indicator of the quality of an investment. We make our acquisition decisions after factoring in other information, such as the discounted value of a CMBS security’s projected future cash flows, and the value of the real estate collateral underlying the mortgage loans owned by the issuing Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduit, or REMIC, trust. However, our assessment of the quality of a CMBS investment may also prove to be inaccurate and we may incur credit losses in excess of our initial expectations. Credit rating agencies may also change their methods of evaluating credit risk and determining ratings on securities backed by real estate loans and securities. These changes have increased in frequency in recent years and in the future may occur quickly and often. Downgrades of CMBS could result in the failure of one or more of our CDOs to fail to comply with par value tests or other covenants, which in turn may result in the diversion of cash distributions by the affected CDO to its senior-most bondholders instead of to us, and the potential termination of us as the collateral manager of such CDO which may in turn reduce our liquidity. CMBS downgrades may also result in downgrades in the CDO liabilities issued by our CDOs. The commercial real estate mortgage finance, real estate and capital markets’ ability to understand and absorb these changes, and the impact to the securitization market in general, are difficult to predict, and such downgrades could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our returns will be adversely affected when investments held in CDOs are prepaid or sold subsequent to the reinvestment period. Our loan and CMBS investments are subject to prepayment risk. In addition, we may sell, and realize gains (or losses) on, investments. To the extent such assets were held in CDOs subsequent to the end of the 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS reinvestment period, the proceeds are fully utilized to pay down the related CDO’s debt which will cause the leverage on the CDO to decrease. A reduction in leverage will cause our return on equity to decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. A decrease in our return on equity could make it more difficult to raise capital in the future. Our investments in debt securities are subject to specific risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities and to the general risks of investing in subordinated real estate securities. Our investments in debt securities involve special risks. REITs generally are required to invest substantially in real estate or real estate-related assets and are subject to the inherent risks associated with real estate-related investments discussed in this filing. Our investments in debt are subject to the risks described above with respect to mortgage loans and CMBS and similar risks, including: • risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss in the event thereof; • the dependence upon the successful operation of and net income from real property; • risks generally incident to interests in real property; and • risks that may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property. Debt securities may be unsecured and may also be subordinated to other obligations of the issuer. We may also invest in debt securities that are rated below investment grade. As a result, investments in debt securities are also subject to risks of: • limited liquidity in the secondary trading market; • substantial market price volatility resulting from changes in prevailing interest rates or credit spreads; • subordination to the prior claims of banks and other senior lenders to the issuer; • the operation of mandatory sinking fund or call/redemption provisions during periods of declining interest rates that could cause the issuer to reinvest premature redemption proceeds in lower yielding assets; • the possibility that earnings of the debt security issuer may be insufficient to meet its debt service; and • the declining creditworthiness and potential for insolvency of the issuer of such debt securities during periods of rising interest rates and economic downturn. These risks may adversely affect the value of outstanding debt securities and the ability of the issuers thereof to repay principal and interest. Our mortgage loans, mezzanine loans, participation interests in mortgage and mezzanine loans, real estate securities and preferred equity investments have been and may continue to be adversely affected by widening credit spreads, and if spreads continue to widen, the value of our loan and securities portfolios would decline further. Our investments in commercial real estate loans and real estate securities are subject to changes in credit spreads. When credit spreads widen, the economic value of our existing loans decrease. If a lender were to originate a similar loan today, such loan would carry a greater credit spread than many existing loans, depending on their vintage. Even though a loan may be performing in accordance with its loan agreement and the underlying collateral has not changed, the economic value of the loan may be negatively impacted by the incremental interest foregone from the widened credit spread. The economic value of our commercial real estate loan portfolio and our real estate securities portfolio has been significantly impacted, and may continue to be significantly impacted, by credit spread widening. Our hedging transactions may limit our gains or result in losses. We use a variety of derivative instruments that are considered conventional “plain vanilla” derivatives, including interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors, in our risk management strategy to limit the effects of 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS changes in interest rates on our operations. The value of our derivatives may fluctuate over time in response to changing market conditions, and will tend to change inversely with the value of the risk in our liabilities that we intend to hedge. Hedges are sometimes ineffective because the correlation between changes in value of the underlying investment and the derivative instrument is less than was expected when the hedging transaction was undertaken. Our hedging transactions, which are intended to limit losses, may actually limit gains and increase our exposure to losses. The use of derivatives to hedge our liabilities carries certain risks, including the risk that losses on a hedge position will reduce the cash available for distribution to stockholders and that these losses may exceed the amount invested in such instruments. A hedge may not be effective in eliminating all of the risks inherent in any particular position and could result in higher interest rates than we would otherwise have. In addition, there will be various market risks against which we may not be able to hedge effectively. Moreover, no hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates, and our qualification as a REIT may limit our ability to effectively hedge our interest rate exposure. Our profitability may be adversely affected during any period as a result of the use of derivatives. We may be subject to lender liability claims. In recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed “lender liability.” Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or stockholders. There can be no assurance that such claims will not arise or that we will not be subject to significant liability if a claim of this type did arise. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price. Under Maryland law, certain “business combinations” between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or asset transfers or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as: • any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation’s shares; or • an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our board of directors approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: • 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation; and • two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or by the interested stockholder’s affiliates or associates, voting together as a single group. The business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. 45 TABLE OF CONTENTS We have opted out of these provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, with respect to its business combination provisions and its control share provisions by resolution of our board of directors and a provision in our bylaws, respectively. However, in the future our board of directors may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the MGCL’s business combination provisions, or amend our bylaws and elect to opt in to the MGCL’s control share provisions. Additionally, Title 8, Subtitle 3 of the MGCL permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which we do not have. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the stockholders with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. Our authorized but unissued preferred stock may prevent a change in our control which could be in the stockholders’ best interests. Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock. Any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders’ interests. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board of directors may establish a series of preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our staggered board of directors and other provisions of our charter and bylaws may prevent a change in our control. Our board of directors is divided into three classes of directors. The current terms of the directors expire in 2012, 2013 and 2014. Directors of each class are chosen for three-year terms upon the expiration of their current terms, and each year one class of directors is elected by the stockholders. On April 22, 2010, Marc Holliday notified our board of directors that he would not stand for election as a Class III director for a new term at our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders. However, Mr. Holliday agreed with our board of directors that he would remain as a director on an interim basis for an unspecified period of time following our 2010 annual meeting. Mr. Holliday has remained as a director in an interim role for much longer than anticipated. Under Maryland law, a director continues as a director until he resigns or his successor is duly elected and appointed. The staggered terms of our directors may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interest of our stockholders. In addition, our charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common stock depends on various market conditions which may change from time to time. Among the market conditions that may affect the value of our common stock are the following: • the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; • our financial performance; and • general stock and bond market conditions. The market value of our common stock is based primarily upon the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions. Consequently, our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. If our future earnings or cash dividends are less than expected, it is likely that the market price of our common stock will diminish. 46 TABLE OF CONTENTS An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of our common stock is our distribution rate as a percentage of our share price relative to market interest rates. If the market price of our common stock is based primarily on the earnings and return that we derive from our investments and income with respect to our investments and our related distributions to stockholders, and not from the market value of the investments themselves, then interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions will likely affect the market price of our common stock. For instance, if market rates rise without an increase in our distribution rate, the market price of our common stock could decrease as potential investors may require a higher distribution yield on our common stock or seek other securities paying higher distributions or interest. In addition, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on our variable rate debt, thereby adversely affecting cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and pay distributions. Risks Related to Our Taxation as a REIT Our failure to qualify as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduced cash available for stockholders. We intend to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our continued qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution and stockholder ownership requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy some of the asset tests depends upon the fair market values of our assets, some of which are not able to be precisely determined and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, and certain statutory relief provisions were not available, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. Unless entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity. In order to qualify as a REIT, each year we must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction, and not including any net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed net taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal tax laws. When necessary, we intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT distribution requirements and avoid corporate income tax and/or excise tax. However, differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement or avoid corporate income or excise tax. We may own assets that generate mismatches between taxable income and available cash. These assets may include (a) securities that have been financed through financing structures which require some or all of available cash flows to be used to service borrowings, (b) loans or CMBS we hold that have been issued at a discount and require the accrual of taxable economic interest in advance of receipt in cash (c) distressed debt on which we may be required to accrue taxable interest income even though the borrower is unable to make current debt service payments in cash and (d) debt investments that generate taxable income but are held by one or more of our CDOS which is not currently making cash distributions to us as the owner of the non-investment liabilities and equity of the CDO. As a result, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our net taxable income could cause us to: (a) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (b) borrow on unfavorable terms or (c) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt to comply with REIT requirements. Further, amounts distributed will not be available to fund investment activities. We expect to fund our investments by raising equity capital and through borrowings from financial institutions and the debt capital 47 TABLE OF CONTENTS markets. If we fail to obtain debt or equity capital in the future, it could limit our ability to grow, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. In January 2011, an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, of 1986, as amended, occurred which limits our ability to utilize our net operating losses and net capital losses against future taxable income, increasing our dividend distribution requirement which could adversely affect our liquidity. We have substantial net operating and net capital loss carry forwards which we have used to offset our tax and/or distribution requirements. In January 2011, an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code occurred, which will limit our ability to use these losses in the future. In general, an “ownership change” occurs if there is a change in ownership of more than 50% of our common stock during any cumulative three year period. For this purpose, determinations of ownership changes are generally limited to shareholders deemed to own 5% or more of our common stock. Such a change in ownership may be triggered by regular trading activity in our common stock, which is generally beyond our control. The provisions of Section 382, will impose an annual limit to the amount of net operating loss carryforward that can be used by us to offset future ordinary taxable income, beginning with our 2011 taxable year. Such limitations may increase our dividend distribution requirement in the future which could adversely affect our liquidity. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The existing REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to hedge our operations. Except to the extent provided by Treasury regulations, (i) for transactions entered into on or prior to July 30, 2008, any income from a hedging transaction we enter into in the normal course of our business primarily to manage risk of interest rate or price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made, or ordinary obligations incurred or to be incurred, to acquire or carry real estate assets, including gain from the sale or disposition of such a transaction, will not constitute gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test (and will generally constitute non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test) and (ii) for transactions entered into after July 30, 2008, any income from a hedging transaction where the instrument hedges interest rate risk on liabilities used to carry or acquire real estate or hedges risk of currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain that would be qualifying income under the 75% or 95% gross income tests will be excluded from gross income for purposes of the 75% and 95% gross income tests. To qualify under either (i) or (ii) of the preceding sentence, the hedging transaction must be clearly identified as specified in Treasury regulations before the close of the day on which it was acquired, originated or entered into. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. In addition, we must limit our aggregate income from non-qualified hedging transactions, from our provision of services and from other non-qualifying sources, to less than 5% of our annual gross income (determined without regard to gross income from qualified hedging transactions). As a result, we may have to limit our use of certain hedging techniques or implement those hedges through TRSs. This could result in greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to incur or could increase the cost of our hedging activities. If we fail to satisfy the 75% or 95% limitations, we could lose our REIT qualification for U.S. federal income tax purposes, unless our failure was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect, and we meet certain other technical requirements. Even if our failure was due to reasonable cause, we might incur a penalty tax. We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case you may be required to pay income taxes in excess of the cash dividends you receive. We may in the future distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and shares of our common stock at the election of each stockholder. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for United States federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be 48 TABLE OF CONTENTS less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. The stock ownership limit imposed by the Internal Revenue Code for REITs and our charter may inhibit market activity in our stock and may restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% of the aggregate value of the outstanding shares of our stock. Our board of directors may not grant such an exemption to any proposed transferee whose ownership of in excess of 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares would result in the termination of our status as a REIT. Our board of directors has waived this provision in connection with SL Green’s purchase of our shares. We have also granted waivers to two other purchasers in connection with their purchase of our shares in a previous private placement. These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. The tax on prohibited transactions will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing loans and selling our loans and real estate properties, that may be treated as sales for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, as we have succeeded to any potential tax liability of American Financial in the merger, we may be subject to this tax on certain of its past dispositions. If the Internal Revenue Service were to successfully characterize those past dispositions as prohibited transactions, the resulting tax liability could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A REIT’s gain from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans and real estate, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were to sell or securitize loans or dispose of loans or real estate in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans or real estate for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans or real estate and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. It may be possible to reduce the impact of the prohibited transaction tax by engaging in securitization transactions treated as sales and loan and real estate dispositions through one or more of our TRSs, subject to certain limitations. Generally, to the extent that we engage in securitizations treated as sales or dispose of loans or real estate through one or more TRSs, the income associated with such activities would be subject to full corporate income tax at standard rates. Prior to our merger with American Financial, American Financial disposed of properties that it deemed to be inconsistent with the investment parameters for its portfolio or for other reasons it deemed appropriate. If American Financial believed that a sale of a property would likely be subject to the prohibited transaction tax if sold by the parent REIT, it disposed of that property through its TRS, in which case the gain from the sale was subject to corporate income tax at standard rates but not the 100% prohibited transaction tax. We intend to continue to sell real estate in a manner similar to American Financial. If the Internal Revenue Service were to successfully characterize American Financial’s past dispositions (including the dispositions through its TRS) as prohibited transactions, we, as successor to American Financial’s tax liabilities and property disposition procedures, could be subject to a 100% tax on the gain from those dispositions, and the resulting tax liability could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we may be liable for the 100% prohibited transaction tax if the Internal Revenue Service were to successfully challenge our future dispositions of loans and real estate. 49 TABLE OF CONTENTS The “taxable mortgage pool” rules may limit the manner in which we effect future securitizations and may subject us to U.S. federal income tax and increase the tax liability of our stockholders. Certain of our current and future securitizations, such as our CDOs, could be considered to result in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a REIT, so long as we or another private subsidiary REIT own 100% of the equity interests in a taxable mortgage pool, our qualification as a REIT would not be adversely affected by the characterization of the securitization as a taxable mortgage pool. We would generally be precluded, however, from holding equity interests in such securitizations through our operating partnership (unless held through a private subsidiary REIT), selling to outside investors equity interests in such securitizations or from selling any debt securities issued in connection with such securitizations that might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes. These limitations will preclude us from using certain techniques to maximize our returns from securitization transactions. Furthermore, we are taxable at the highest corporate income tax rate on a portion of the income arising from a taxable mortgage pool that is allocable to the percentage of our shares held by “disqualified organizations,” which are generally certain cooperatives, governmental entities and tax-exempt organizations that are exempt from unrelated business taxable income. We expect that disqualified organizations will own our shares from time to time. In addition, if we realize excess inclusion income and allocate it to stockholders, this income cannot be offset by net operating losses of our stockholders. If the stockholder is a tax-exempt entity and not a disqualified organization, then this income would be fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income under Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. If the stockholder is a foreign person, it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding on this. Nominees or other broker/dealers who hold our stock on behalf of disqualified organizations are subject to tax at the highest corporate income tax rate on a portion of our excess inclusion income allocable to the stock held on behalf of disqualified organizations. If the stockholder is a REIT, a regulated investment company, or RIC, common trust fund, or other pass-through entity, its allocable share of our excess inclusion income could be considered excess inclusion income of such entity and such entity will be subject to tax at the highest corporate tax rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to their owners that are disqualified organizations. Accordingly, such investors should be aware that a portion of our income may be considered excess inclusion income. Finally, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, our taxable mortgage pool securitizations will be treated as separate taxable corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We may be unable to generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses and to pay distributions to our stockholders. As a REIT, we are generally required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and not including net capital gains, each year to our stockholders. To qualify for the tax benefits accorded to REITs, we have and intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts such that we distribute all or substantially all our net taxable income each year, subject to certain adjustments. However, our ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the event of a downturn in our operating results and financial performance or unanticipated declines in the value of our asset portfolio, we may be unable to declare or pay quarterly distributions or make distributions to our stockholders. The timing and amount of distributions are in the sole discretion of our board of directors, which considers, among other factors, our earnings, financial condition, debt service obligations and applicable debt covenants, REIT qualification requirements and other tax considerations and capital expenditure requirements as our board may deem relevant from time to time. Although our use of TRSs may be able to partially mitigate the impact of meeting the requirements necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT, our ownership of and relationship with our TRSs will be limited and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT qualification and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS generally may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS 50 TABLE OF CONTENTS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25% (20% for tax years commencing before January 1, 2009) of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Our TRSs, including GKK Management Co., LLC, GKK Trading Corp., GIT Trading Corp. and Whiteface Holdings, LLC will pay U.S. federal, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution to us but will not be required to be distributed to us. We anticipate that the aggregate value of TRS securities owned by us will be less than 25% of the value of our total assets (including such TRS securities). Furthermore, we will monitor the value of our respective investments in our TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the rule that no more than 25% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of TRS securities (which is applied at the end of each calendar quarter). In addition, we will scrutinize all of our transactions with our TRSs for the purpose of ensuring that they are entered into on arm’s-length terms in order to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. The value of the securities that we hold in our TRSs may not be subject to precise valuation. Accordingly, there can be no complete assurance that we will be able to comply with the 25%, limitation discussed above or avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information This report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking expressions such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “project,” “continue,” or any negative or other variations on such expressions. Forward-looking statements include information concerning possible or assumed future results of our operations, including any forecasts, projections, plans and objectives for future operations. Although we believe that our plans, intentions and expectations as reflected in or suggested by those forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that the plans, intentions or expectations will be achieved. We have listed below some important risks, uncertainties and contingencies which could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the forward-looking statements we make in this report. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies include, but are not limited to, the following: • the continuity of the management agreement for the KBS portfolio; • reduction in cash flows received from our investments, in particular our CDOs; • the adequacy of our cash reserves, working capital and other forms of liquidity; • the availability, terms and deployment of short-term and long-term capital; • the performance and financial condition of borrowers, tenants, and corporate customers; • the cost and availability of our financings, which depends in part on our asset quality, the nature of our relationships with our lenders and other capital providers, our business prospects and outlook and general market conditions; • availability of, and ability to retain, qualified personnel and directors; • our ability to satisfy all covenants in our CDOs and specifically compliance with overcollateralization and interest coverage tests; • changes to our management and board of directors; • the success or failure of our efforts to implement our current business strategy; • economic conditions generally and in the commercial finance and real estate markets and the banking industry specifically; 51 TABLE OF CONTENTS • the resolution of our non-performing and sub-performing assets and any losses we might recognize in connection with such investments; • unanticipated increases in financing and other costs, including a rise in interest rates; • availability of investment opportunities on real estate assets and real estate-related and other securities; • risks of structured finance investments; • risks of real estate acquisitions; • the actions of our competitors and our ability to respond to those actions; • the timing of cash flows, if any, from our investments; • demand for office space; • our ability to maintain our current relationships with financial institutions and to establish new relationships with additional financial institutions; • our ability to identify and complete additional property acquisitions; • our ability to profitably dispose of non-core assets; • changes in governmental regulations, tax rates and similar matters; • legislative and regulatory changes (including changes to laws governing the taxation of REITs or the exemptions from registration as an investment company); • environmental and/or safety requirements; • our ability to satisfy complex rules in order for us to qualify as a REIT, for federal income tax purposes and qualify for our exemption under the Investment Company Act, our operating partnership’s ability to satisfy the rules in order for it to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to qualify as REITs and certain of our subsidiaries to qualify as TRSs for federal income tax purposes, and our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to operate effectively within the limitations imposed by these rules; • the continuing threat of terrorist attacks on the national, regional and local economies; and • other factors discussed under Item 1A, “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and those factors that may be contained in any filing we make with the SEC, including Part II, Item 1A of the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. We assume no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. In evaluating forward-looking statements, you should consider these risks and uncertainties, together with the other risks described from time-to-time in our reports and documents which are filed with the SEC, and you should not place undue reliance on those statements. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report may include additional factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. 52 TABLE OF CONTENTS SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING EXHIBITS In reviewing the agreements included as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, please remember they are included to provide you with information regarding their terms and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure information about our company or the other parties to the agreements. The agreements contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement and: • should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk tone of the parties if those statements provide to be inaccurate; • have been qualified by disclosures that were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable agreement, which disclosures are not necessarily reflected in the agreement; • may apply standards of materiality in a way that is different from what may be viewed as material to you or other investors; and • were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement and are subject to more recent developments. Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time. Additional information about our company may be found elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings, which are available without charge through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. See Item 1, “Business — Corporate Governance and Internet Address: Where Readers Can Find Additional Information.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of December 31, 2011, we did not have any unresolved comments with the staff of the SEC. 53 TABLE OF CONTENTS 