ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and all of the information contained in this Annual Report before deciding whether to purchase our securities. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks if any of them actually occur. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and an investor may lose all or part of his investment. Some of these factors have affected our financial condition and operating results in the past or are currently affecting our company. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face as described below and elsewhere in this report. With respect to this discussion, the terms, “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CHINA CGAME, INC., and all of our subsidiaries. RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATIONS More than half of our contracts receivables are attributable to a Dubai project, which is under dispute and we may never be paid. One of the primarily reasons that the aging of Company’s contract receivables have increased is the delay in payment by client of the Dubai projects since April 2009. The underlying receivable as of December 31, 2010 from the Dubai projects was approximately $42 million, which represented 52% of the total contract receivables as of such date. The Company has employed a claim consultant, Hill International, to facilitate the Company’s claim for the back payment. In April 2011, the master contractor reiterated that it does not believe that it is obligated to pay to the Company any of the amounts that the Company believes it is due. The Company intends to file an arbitration claim in April 2011. The Company currently expects that there will be progress and payments will be received. However, due to the ongoing dispute, there is no guarantee that the Company will collect all or a portion of the contract receivable. If we are not able to collect the receivable, our results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely impacted. See “ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION—Dubai Metro Rail Project” in this report for more information. We have recently suffered substantial losses and our auditors have expressed doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The independent auditor's report on our financial statements contains explanatory language that substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern. The report states that we have suffered operation net loss of more than $23 million during the year ended December 31, 2010 and as of December 31, 2010, we have an accumulated deficit of approximately $11.2 million due to the fact that we continued to incur losses over the past few years. As noted in the report, we have difficulty to maintain sufficient working capital for operation activities. All of these matters raise substantial doubt of our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional financing in the near term or regain profitability, then we would, in all likelihood, experience severe liquidity problems and may have to curtail our operations. If we curtail our operations, we may be placed into bankruptcy or undergo liquidation, the result of which will adversely affect the value of our common shares. A majority of the bonds have matured and we are unable to make payment. Exercise of the bondholders' right to require redemption of the Bonds would suffer a significant material adverse effect on our liquidity and cash resources. If we are required to redeem all or any portion of the $8 million and $20 million outstanding Bonds, this may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and cash resources, and may impair our ability to continue to operate. Pursuant to the terms of the Bonds, at any time after April 12, 2010, each holder of the 2007 Bonds can require us to redeem the 2007 Bonds at 126.51% of the principal amount of the 2007 Bonds and we are required to redeem any outstanding 2007 Bonds at 150.87% of its principal amount on April 4, 2012. Also, on April 15 and October 15 of each year on or after April 15, 2010, the holders of the 2008 Bonds may require us to redeem the 2008 Bonds at 116.61% of their principal amount. We are required to redeem any outstanding 2008 Bonds at 116.61% of its principal amount on April 15, 2011. If a triggering event occurs and we are requested by the holders to repurchase all or a portion of the 2007 or 2008 Bonds, we will be required to pay cash to redeem all or a portion of the Bonds. Pursuant to the Waiver, upon our timely payment of all of the required payments under the Waiver, the bondholders have agreed to commence negotiations in good faith with us to waive their rights under the trust deed governing the 2007 Bonds to require us to redeem the 2007 Bonds at 126.51% of the principal amount, plus all accrued but unpaid interest, at any time after April 12, 2010, and their rights under the trust deed governing the 2008 Bonds to require us to redeem the 2008 Bonds at 116.61% of the principal amount of the Bonds redeemed, plus all accrued but unpaid interest, on any Interest Payment Date on or after April 15, 2010. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to reach an agreement with the bondholders for their waiver of such rights. If we are required to repurchase all or a portion of the Bonds and do not have sufficient cash to make the repurchase, we may be required to obtain third party financing to do so, and there can be no assurances that we will be able to secure financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, results of operations and stock price. 17 We have failed to make the required interest payment under our $28 million convertible bonds. The bondholders may, at any time, declare a default under the Bonds and require us to pay the Bonds. We have entered into a waiver with the bondholders, but had been unable to meet the terms and condition of the waiver agreement, which could result in bankruptcy or otherwise impair our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity to continue our operations. On February 24, 2010, we and the holders of our Bonds and the 2008 Bond Warrants entered into an Amendment and Waiver Agreement (the “Waiver”). Pursuant to Waiver, which has a three month term, the bondholders and warrantholder agreed to waive their right to a reduction in the conversion price of the Bonds and exercise price of the 2008 Bond Warrants due to our issuance of 6,250,000 shares of common stock to First Jet Investment Limited to acquire an equity interest in ConnGame at a price per share less than the current conversion prices of the Bonds and exercise price of the 2008 Bond Warrants. Pursuant to the Waiver, we agreed to pay the bondholders the interest in arrears owed on the Bonds as of March 31, 2010 in two equal payments on March 31, 2010 and May 31, 2010 of approximately $1.26 million each and to pay 100% of the interest payments on the Bonds that becomes due in April 2010 to be paid on April 15, 2010 of approximately $1.32 million, for aggregate payments of approximately $3.84 million. We also agreed to repay the principal and all accrued interest that we owe to ABN AMRO Bank (China) Co., Ltd., Shenzhen Branch (the “Overdraft Lender”) under an Overdraft Facility letter in three equal separate installments. The total amount owed to the Overdraft Lender is equal to approximately $4.91 million. The first installment is due no later than March 31, 2010, the second installment is due on April 30, 2010 and the third installment is due on May 31, 2010. We further agreed that we will not repay or prepay any debt prior to its currently scheduled due date until we make all of the payments specified in the Waiver and the Bonds have been redeemed in full and that any new indebtedness incurred by us for the purpose of repaying the overdraft facility shall (i) not exceed the outstanding amount due and payable under the overdraft facility and (ii) be subordinated to all amount owed under the Bonds. If we fail to make any of the payments specified in the Waiver or fail to uphold any obligation in the Waiver, then the waiver will be null and void and the bondholders are declare a default and call the bonds for payment. If we are required to redeem all or a portion of the Bonds, we may be required to seek third party financing to do so, and there can be no assurances that we will be able to secure financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operation, financial position, and cash flows and liquidity, and could result in bankruptcy. We have not been able to comply with the terms of the Waiver, including payments required to be made by us, the waiver of the adjustment rights may become voided and the conversion and exercise prices of the bonds and warrants may adjust down, resulting in substantial dilution to our securities and immediate repayment of the Bonds. One of the conditions to the acquisition of ConnGame was that we obtain a waiver from our bondholders related to their rights to have the conversion and exercise price of the Bonds and 2008 Warrants, respectively, adjusted downward as a result of ours issuance of the 6.5 million shares. We obtained the Waiver on February 24, 2010. The Waiver had a three month term from the execution date, and therefore expired on May 24, 2010. The parties entered into a new waiver on July 13, 2010, which has a three month term subject to the terms and conditions contained therein. We close the transaction within the three-month period. We have failed to make certain payments specified in the Waiver and are currently negotiating with the bondholders to amend the Waiver. If we are not able to reach an agreement with the bondholders, all rights of the holders of the Bonds and 2008 Warrants waived under the Waiver to or to be waived under the Waiver, shall not be waived and will be reinstated, and any previous waivers will be null and void. Our failure to adequately recover on claims brought by us against project contractors, such as the contractor of the Dubai Metro Rail Project, for additional contract costs could have a negative impact on our liquidity and profitability. We have brought claims against project contractors for additional costs exceeding the contract price or for amounts not included in the original contract price. These types of claims occur due to matters such as contractor- or owner-caused delays or changes from the initial project scope, both of which may result in additional cost. Often, these claims can be the subject of lengthy arbitration or litigation proceedings, and it is difficult to accurately predict when these claims will be fully resolved. For example, we are currently in a dispute with the contractor of the Dubai Metro Rail Project for amounts that we believe are owed to us but with which the project owner disagrees, including additional contract costs. At dispute is approximately $42.1 million. When these types of events occur and unresolved claims are pending, we have used working capital in projects to cover cost overruns pending the resolution of the relevant claims. A failure to promptly recover on these types of claims, if at all, could have a negative impact on our liquidity and profitability. 18 The growth of aging receivables and a deterioration in the collectability of these accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. We provide for bad debts principally based upon the aging of accounts receivable, in addition to collectability of specific customer accounts, our history of bad debts, and the general condition of the industry. Among the contract receivables as of December 31, 2010, $59.4 million was outstanding over 365 days and $18.5 million over 730 days, in total of $87.0 million which including $15.4 million of retention money which would only be settled after the retention periods of two or three years. The Company periodically prepares the aging of the receivables information and reviews the balances with consideration of the background of each client for assessing the realizable value of the balances and would make provision when appropriate. We recorded a general provision for doubtful accounts amounting to approximately $1.4 million in 2009 and $6.0 million in 2010, which management believes is commensurate to cover the associated credit risk in the portfolio of our construction contract related receivables. As of December 31, 2010, our provision for doubtful accounts was $5.5 million, which was 6.4% of our construction contract related receivables of $87.0 million. We believed it was appropriate to increase the reserve for doubtful accounts primarily due to an increase in the aging of our accounts receivable, the growth of the outstanding balance of receivables as of December 31, 2010, and the general decline in the domestic and global economy. Due to the difficulty in assessing future trends, we could be required to further increase our provisions for doubtful accounts. As our accounts receivable age and become uncollectible our cash flow and results of operations are negatively impacted. We identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that such controls were not effective. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. We can provide no assurance that we will at all time in the future be able to report that our internal control is effective. Because we have reporting obligations under the Exchange Act, we are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute material weaknesses or changes in internal control that, or that are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal control over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a significant deficiency or combination of significant deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Based on the restatements to our financial statements referenced above, our management concluded that our system of internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2010, in addition to prior period end dates, which were the cause of our restatements as described above. Although management does not anticipate making any further restatements to the financial statements for subsequent periods, management believes that our weakness in internal controls continued during such periods. Management has identified internal control deficiencies which, in management’s judgment, represent material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. The control deficiencies related to controls over the accounting and disclosure for transactions to ensure such transactions were recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements and disclosure in accordance with GAAP. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or report a material weakness, we might be subject to regulatory sanction and investors may lose confidence in our financial statements, which may be inaccurate if we fail to remedy such material weakness. If we are unable to accurately estimate and control our contract costs and timelines, then we may incur losses on our contracts, which may result in decreases in our operating margins and in a significant reduction or elimination of our profits. If we do not control our contract costs, we may be unable to maintain positive operating margins or experience operating losses. Approximately 95% of our sales are from fixed-price contracts. The remaining 5% of our sales are from cost-plus-fee contracts. Under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price. Consequently, we realize a profit on fixed-price contracts only if we control our costs and prevent cost over-runs on the contracts. Approximately 70% of contracts are modified after they begin, usually to accommodate requests from clients to increase project size and scope. In cases where fixed-price contracts are modified, the fixed price is renegotiated and adjusted upwards accordingly. Under cost-plus-fee contracts, which may be subject to contract ceiling amounts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and fees, which may be fixed or performance-based. If our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or any applicable regulations, we may not be reimbursed for all our costs. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to estimate and control costs and/or project timelines, we may incur losses on our contracts, which may result in decreases in our operating margins and in a significant reduction or elimination of our profits. Due to global recession, its negative effect on the construction industry, and other reasons, we do not intend to engage in any international projects in 2010, which accounted for a majority of our revenues in 2009. We have shifted our focus to projects located in mainland China and our contract revenues and net income will be materially reduced if we are not able to secure sufficient projects in China. For fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, revenue from sales of our products and services internationally (for our purposes, outside of China) represented approximately 2%, 57% and 44.6% respectively, of our total revenue. As a result of our recent restructure and reorganization to turn back to local instead of oversea market due to the recent change in international economic environments, our Shenzhen office was down sized and moved out from the leasehold multi-floor office building to a smaller leased place at minimal operations in September 2009. The set up of the Shenzhen office was originally for the support of the overseas operations which we have decided to discontinue. As a result, the current improvement works to the leasehold multi-floor office building were stopped and was written off in the third quarter of 2009, a loss of $1.9 million. In addition, a substantial percentage of our revenue has been derived from international projects in the past few years, and with the loss of such sources of revenue going forward, our results of operations will suffer if we are unable to secure a sufficient amount of projects in mainland China to offset the void in revenue that we have received from international projects in the past, which could negatively affect our stock price. 19 A substantial portion of our assets has been comprised of construction contract receivables representing amounts owed by a small number of customers. If any of these customers fails to timely pay us amounts owed, we could suffer a significant decline in cash flow and liquidity which, in turn, could cause us to be unable to pay our liabilities and purchase an adequate amount of inventory to sustain or expand our sales volume. Our construction contract receivables represented approximately 69.0% and 65.7% of our total current assets as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, our largest customer represented over 51.6% of the total amount of our construction contract receivables. As a result of the substantial amount and concentration of our construction contract receivables, if any of our major customers fails to timely pay us amounts owed, we could suffer a significant decline in cash flow and liquidity which could adversely affect our ability to borrow funds to pay our liabilities and to purchase inventory to sustain or expand our current sales volume. Our use of the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting could result in reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenues and profits. A substantial portion of our revenues and profits are measured and recognized using the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting, which is discussed further in Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our “Financial Statements.” Our use of this method results in recognition of revenues and profits ratably over the life of a contract, based generally on the proportion of costs incurred to date to total costs expected to be incurred for the entire project. The effect of revisions to revenues and estimated costs is recorded when the amounts are known or can be reasonably estimated. There are uncertainties inherent in the estimating process, and estimate revisions may occur. Such revisions could occur in any period and their effects could be material. As is customary in the construction industry, we intend to conduct interim reviews on a rolling basis, and it may be determined during these reviews that actual costs on a project or projects vary materially from estimates, including reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenues and profits. Our results of operations for current and past periods may be negatively affected by revisions to estimates and reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenues and profits, which could harm the value of our securities. The restatement of certain of our historical consolidated financial statements may have an adverse effect on us. In May 2010, our management concluded that our consolidated audited financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 and our consolidated unaudited interim financial statements for the periods ended September 30, 2007, September 30, 2007, March 31, 2008 and September 30, 2008 needed to be restated and should not be relied upon. For a more detailed discussion of the restatements, amendments and their underlying circumstances, please refer to the Explanatory Note at the beginning of our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2009 (the “Amended 2008 Form 10-K”) and Note 1 of the Notes to the consolidated financial statements included in the Amended 2009 Form 10-K. As a result of the restatements, the Company may become subject to a number of significant risks, which could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations, including potential civil litigation (including stockholder class action lawsuits and derivative claims made on behalf of the Company), and regulatory proceedings or actions, the defense of which may require significant management attention and significant legal expense and which litigation, proceedings or actions, if decided against us, could require us to pay substantial judgments, settlements or other penalties. In 2009, the contractor of the Dubai Metro Rail Project called bonds that were established on our behalf, and our ability to maintain adequate bonding capacity is necessary for us to successfully bid on and win contracts. In line with industry practice, we are often required to provide performance or payment bonds to clients under contracts. These bonds indemnify the customer should we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. If a bond is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain an appropriate bond, we cannot pursue that project. In 2009, the contractor of Dubai Metro Rail Project called for and received payment of $2.1 million in performance bonds and $7.3 million in advance payment bonds that were issued on our behalf for the project. Such action had a negative effect on our bonding capacity. We have experienced a decrease in the trading price of our common stock, and as a result, the value of the stock price has lead to insufficient collateral value of bonds and credits. We believe that we still have bonding capacity but, as is typically the case, the issuance of a bond is at the surety’s sole discretion. Moreover, due to events that affect the insurance and bonding markets generally, bonding may be more difficult to obtain in the future or may only be available at significantly higher costs. There can be no assurance that our bonding capacity will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding and, as a result, to bid on new contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to timely complete, miss a required performance standard or otherwise fail to adequately perform on a project, then we may incur a loss on that project, which may affect our overall profitability. We may commit to a client that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. We may also commit that a project, when completed, will achieve specified performance standards. If the project is not completed by the scheduled date or subsequently fails to meet required performance standards, we may either incur significant additional costs or be held responsible for the costs incurred by the client to rectify damages due to late completion or failure to achieve the required performance standards. The uncertainty of the timing of a project can present difficulties in planning the amount of personnel needed for the project. If the project is delayed or canceled, we may bear the cost of an underutilized workforce that was dedicated to fulfilling the project. In addition, performance of projects can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including unavoidable delays from weather conditions, unavailability of vendor materials, changes in the project scope of services requested by clients or labor disruptions. In some cases, should we fail to meet required performance standards, we may also be subject to agreed-upon financial damages, which are determined by the contract. To the extent that these events occur, the total costs of the project could exceed our estimates and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, incur a loss on that project, which may affect our overall profitability. 20 There are restrictive covenants in the Waiver relating to our ability to incur future indebtedness. Pursuant to the Waiver, we agreed that we will not repay or prepay any debt prior to its currently scheduled due date until we make all of the payments required by the Waiver and the Bonds have been redeemed in full. Additionally, we agreed that any new indebtedness incurred by us for the purpose of repaying the amounts owed to the Overdraft Lender under the overdraft facility letter (i) will not exceed the amounts due under the facility and (ii) will be subordinated to all amounts owed under the Bonds. Therefore, only after we make all of the required payments pursuant to the Waiver, will we be able to incur additional debt, including secured indebtedness or indebtedness by, or other obligations of, our subsidiaries to which the Bonds would be structurally subordinate. A higher level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our indebtedness or that future working capital, borrowings or equity financing will be available to pay or refinance such indebtedness. There are restrictive covenants in the trust deeds governing our outstanding Bonds and the Waiver relating to our ability to incur future indebtedness. As long as any of such Bonds remains outstanding, we agreed not to create any encumbrance upon our present or future assets or revenues to secure any indebtedness or to secure any guarantee of or indemnity in respect of any such indebtedness unless our obligations under the Bonds are secured by the same encumbrance or have the benefit from a guarantee or indemnity in substantially identical terms. The trust deeds do not contain any financial or operating covenants or restrictions on the payment of dividends, incurrence of indebtedness (other than as stated above), transactions with affiliates, incurrence of liens, or the issuance or repurchase of securities by us or any of our subsidiaries. Pursuant to the Waiver, we agreed that we will not repay or prepay any debt prior to its currently scheduled due date until we make all of the payments required by the Waiver and the Bonds have been redeemed in full. Additionally, we agreed that any new indebtedness incurred by us for the purpose of repaying the amounts owed to the Overdraft Lender under the overdraft facility letter (i) will not exceed the amounts due under the facility and (ii) will be subordinated to all amounts owed under the Bonds. Therefore, after we make all of the required payments pursuant to the Waiver, we may incur additional debt, including secured indebtedness or indebtedness by, or other obligations of, our subsidiaries to which the Bonds would be structurally subordinate. A higher level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our indebtedness or that future working capital, borrowings or equity financing will be available to pay or refinance such indebtedness. We issued convertible bonds that include features that will have the effect of reducing our reported operating results during the term of the bonds. We issued $10,000,000 Variable Rate Convertible Bonds due in 2012 in April 2007 (the “2007 Bonds”) and $20,000,000 12% Convertible Bonds due in 2011 in April 2008 (the “2008 Bonds,” and collectively with the 2007 Bonds, the “Bonds”). At of December 31, 2009, $2 million of the 2007 Bonds have been converted. The terms of 2007 Bonds and 2008 Bonds include conversion features allowing the holders to convert the Bonds into shares of our common stock. Certain of those conversion features that allow for the reduction in conversion price upon the occurrence of stated events constitute a “beneficial conversion feature” for accounting purposes. The accounting treatment related to the beneficial conversion and mandatory redemption features of the 2007 and 2008 Bonds and the value of the warrants to purchase 300,000 shares of our common stock expiring 2013 issued in connection with the 2008 Bonds (the “2008 Bond Warrants”) will have an adverse impact on our results of operations for the term of the Bonds. The application of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles required us to allocate $2,171,429 to the beneficial conversion feature of the 2007 Bonds, and $2,183,085 and $1,413,503 to the 2007 Bonds Warrants and 2008 Bond Warrants, respectively, which have been reflected in our financial statements as an interest discount. Also, we have determined that the total redemption premium associated with the mandatory redemption feature of the 2007 and 2008 Bonds is $4,138,418 and ($702,579), respectively. All of the aforementioned amounts associated with the beneficial conversion and mandatory redemption feature of the bonds and the value of the bond warrants are being amortized as additional interest expense over the term of the bonds. This accounting will result in an increase in interest expense in all reporting periods during the term of the bonds, and, as a result, reduce our net income accordingly. Because we depend on governmental agencies for a significant portion of our revenue, our inability to win or renew government contracts could harm our operations and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Revenues from Chinese government contracts represented approximately 49.0% and 35.2% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our inability to win or renew Chinese government contracts could harm our operations and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Chinese government contracts are typically awarded through a regulated procurement process. Some Chinese government contracts are awarded to multiple competitors, causing increases in overall competition and pricing pressure. The competition and pricing pressure, in turn may require us to make sustained post-award efforts to reduce costs in order to realize revenues under these contracts. If we are not successful in reducing the amount of costs we anticipate, our profitability on these contracts will be negatively impacted. 21 Adverse capital and credit market conditions, in addition to the negative effects of our rapid growth, may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, ratings downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions that have included severely restricted credit and declines in real estate values. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to utilize our current credit facilities and finance our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies such that our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations might be impaired. Without sufficient liquidity, we may be forced to curtail our operations. Adverse market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities and access the capital necessary to operate and grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns. The current tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect the ability of our customers to obtain financing for purchases of our services and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our services. We are unable to predict the duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and the global adverse economic conditions and the effect such events might have on our business. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. In addition, our ability to meet liquidity needs and access capital has been detrimentally affected by our failure to timely control the speed and magnitude of the company’s expansion after the listing of our common stock on a US national exchange in 2007. In addition, the delayed payment by customers caused insufficient cash flows, the difficulty of payments caused the delayed payment of bond interests and bank loans, and breaching the contracts. Rapid growth has caused the internal management and control unable to maintain proper development during and after the expansion such that operation costs dramatically increased. In response, we have increased our cost-cutting efforts in the first half of 2009. Nevertheless, the large amount of preliminary spending and substantial costs due to the downsizing have caused the depletion of our capital to the point that it may no longer be able to continue or support regular operations. The global economic conditions caused by the decline in the worldwide economy and constraints in the credit market has caused, and may continue to cause, clients to delay, curtail or cancel proposed and existing projects, thus decreasing the overall demand for our services and weakening our financial results. Our clients and potential clients have been impacted by the global economic conditions caused by the decline in the overall economy and constraints in the credit market. As a result, some clients have delayed, curtailed or cancelled proposed and existing projects and may continue to do so, thus decreasing the overall demand for our services and adversely impacting our results of operations. Since 2008, we have conducted a substantial work for the development and undertaking of the international projects, and contributed a large amount of labor, materials and financial resources. As a result, we rapidly obtained numerous high value and high profit projects, and the team and management system were built up at the same time. However, after the global financial crisis worsened, these projects failed to progress smoothly. Some national projects were stopped and some unconstructed projects were shut down or the progress of them were slowed down, such as Hong Kong Polytechnic University Project, Nine Dragon Marine Park and Studios Projects, Abu Dhabi Project and the U.S 371 Project. In addition, progress of other projects were delayed and the receipt of payments for those projects were slowed down, such as Guangzhou Opera House Project, Kuwait Project, Singapore Conservatory Complex, and the At Gardens By the Bay Project. We have taken a number of measures to prevent the deterioration of the situation, but the results were minimal, and a significant portion of our preliminary spending did not result in revenues for our company. The current economic volatility has also made it very difficult for us to predict the short-term and long-term impacts on our business and made it more difficult to forecast our business and financial trends. In addition, our clients may find it more difficult to raise capital in the future due to substantial limitations on the availability of credit and other uncertainties in the federal, municipal and corporate credit markets. Also, our clients may find it increasingly difficult to timely pay invoices for our services, which would impact our future cash flows and liquidity. Any inability to timely collect our invoices may lead to an increase in our accounts receivable and potentially to increased write-offs of uncollectible invoices. The economic downturn, tightened credit markets and the decline in commodity prices have resulted in reductions in spending capital for the development of new production facilities, adversely affecting our revenues. Also, ongoing credit constraints in the market could limit our ability to access credit markets in the future and, therefore, impact our liquidity. 22 Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns and reductions in government and private industry spending. If the global economy remains weak or client spending declines further, then our revenues, profits and our financial condition may continue to deteriorate. In fiscal 2010, we experienced a further decline in our revenues compared to fiscal 2009 and a decrease in project awards. If the economy remains weak or client spending declines further, then our revenues, backlog, net income and overall financial condition may continue to deteriorate. In light of current macroeconomic conditions, we are projecting declines in revenues in our power and industrial and commercial market sectors for 2010. Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns and reductions in government and private industry spending, which may result in delaying, curtailing or canceling proposed and existing projects by clients. If our goodwill resulting from our 2007 acquisition of Techwell becomes impaired, then our financial condition and profits may be reduced. A decline in our stock price and market capitalization, such as our stock price decline in 2009, could result in an impairment of a material amount of our goodwill, which is fully attributable to our subsidiary Techwell, which could reduce our earnings. Goodwill may be impaired if the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units’ goodwill is less than the carrying value of the unit’s goodwill. In 2007, we acquired Techwell Engineering, and its accordingly recorded goodwill assets in the amount of approximately $8.0 million, which represents a significant portion of our assets. We perform an analysis on our goodwill balances to test for impairment on an annual basis and whenever events occur that indicate an impairment could exist. There are several instances that may cause us to further test our goodwill for impairment between the annual testing periods including: (i) continued deterioration of market and economic conditions that may adversely impact our ability to meet our projected results; (ii) declines in our stock price caused by continued volatility in the financial markets that may result in increases in our weighted-average cost of capital or other inputs to our goodwill assessment; (iii) the occurrence of events that may reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount, such as the sale of a significant portion of one or more of our reporting units. Our impairment review did not indicate an impairment of the goodwill, however while this review indicated that the estimated fair value exceeded the carrying value of goodwill, it is reasonably possible that changes in the numerous variables associated with the judgments, assumptions and estimates we made in assessing the fair value of our goodwill, could cause the respective value of this or other reporting units to become impaired. If our goodwill is impaired, we would be required to record a non-cash charge that could have a material adverse effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Our future revenues depend on our ability to consistently bid and win new contracts and renew existing contracts and, therefore, our failure to effectively obtain future contracts could adversely affect our profitability. Our future revenues and overall results of operations require us to successfully bid on new contracts and renew existing contracts. Contract proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process, which is affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. If negative market conditions arise, or if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or the required governmental approval, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could adversely affect our profitability. Our results could be adversely impacted by product quality and performance. We manufacture or install products based on specific requirements of each of our customers. We believe that future orders of our products or services will depend on our ability to maintain the performance, reliability and quality standards required by our customers. If our products or services have performance, reliability or quality problems, we may experience delays in the collection of accounts receivables, higher manufacturing or installation costs, additional warranty and service expense, and reduced, cancelled or discontinued orders. Additionally, performance, reliability or quality claims from our customers, with or without merit, could result in costly and time-consuming litigation that could require significant time and attention of management and involve significant monetary damages. Continued price volatility and supply constraints in the steel and aluminum markets could prevent us from meeting delivery schedules to our customers or reduce our profit margins . We buy semi-finished products made of aluminum, steel and glass, and, to a degree, our business is dependent on the prices and supply of steel and aluminum, which, along with glass, are the principal raw materials used in our products. The steel and aluminum industries are highly cyclical in nature, and steel and aluminum prices have been volatile in recent years and may remain volatile in the future. Steel and aluminum prices are influenced by numerous factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition, labor costs, production costs, import duties and other trade restrictions. In the past, there have been unusually rapid and significant increases in steel and aluminum prices and severe shortages in the steel and aluminum industries due in part to increased demand from China’s expanding economy and high energy prices. We do not have any long-term contracts for the purchase of steel and aluminum and normally do not maintain inventories of steel and aluminum in excess of our current production requirements. We can give you no assurance that steel and aluminum will remain available or that prices will not continue to be volatile. If the available supply of steel and aluminum declines, we could experience price increases that we are not able to pass on to our customers, a deterioration of service from our suppliers or interruptions or delays that may cause us not to meet delivery schedules to our customers. Any of these problems could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 23 Our business is characterized by long periods for collection from our customers and short periods for payment to our suppliers, the combination of which may cause us to have liquidity problems. We experience an average accounts settlement period ranging from two months to as high as one year from the time we provide services to the time we receive payment from our customers for domestic contracts. For our overseas projects, we typically experience an account settlement period according to the contracts. In most international contracts, the account settlement period is approximately two months. In contrast, we typically need to place certain deposits with our suppliers on a portion of the purchase price in advance and for some suppliers we must maintain a deposit for future orders. We are typically paid by the contractor the entire amount due to us for our services and products once the entire project is completed, which could be significantly after we complete the curtain wall portion of the project. China’s policy requires the contractor to pay 85% of our total contract value to us before the project is completed, and the remainder may be paid when the contractor completes the entire project. Because our payment cycle is considerably shorter than our receivable cycle, we may experience working capital shortages. Working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in our results of operations and liquidity. We cannot assure you that system problems, industry trends or other issues will not extend our collection period, adversely impact our working capital. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. The markets we serve are very competitive, price and lead-time sensitive and are impacted by changes in the commercial construction industry, including unforeseen delays in project timing and work flow. In addition, competition in the markets of the building industry and in the metal coil coating industry is intense. It is based primarily on: · quality; · service; · delivery; · ability to provide added value in the design and engineering of buildings; · price; · speed of construction in buildings and components; and · personal relationships with customers. We compete with several large integrated glass manufacturers, numerous specialty, architectural glass and window fabricators, and major contractors and subcontractors. We also compete with a number of other manufacturers of engineered building systems ranging from small local firms to large national firms. In addition, we and other manufacturers of engineered high-end curtain walls compete with alternative methods of building construction. If these alternative building methods compete successfully against us, such competition could adversely affect us. Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns. If the economy weakens, then our revenues, profits and our financial condition may deteriorate. Many of our competitors have greater financial or other resources than we do. We are currently a defendant in a lawsuit in Hong Kong regarding our acquisition of Techwell Engineering Limited (“Techwell”) in November 2007, pursuant to which the sellers have alleged that, inter alia , (i) we misrepresented to them the financial status of our company and operations during the course the negotiations of the acquisition; and (ii) we failed to perform our obligations under a settlement agreement alleged to have been agreed to by us in January 2009. We believe this lawsuit to have limited merit and we shall vigorously defend such lawsuit. If however we are unsuccessful in defending the lawsuit, we may be required to pay damages and we may potentially lose our ownership of Techwell. Pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement dated November 7, 2007, the previous shareholders of Techwell, Mr. Ng, Chi Sum and Miss Yam, Mei Ling Maria agreed to sell 100% of the shares in Techwell to us for approximately $11.7 million in cash and shares of common stock of our company. Subsequent to the acquisition, Mr. Ng and Miss Yam were employed by Techwell. Techwell generated revenue that accounted for approximately 47% and 1.3% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010. On January 14, 2009, the board of directors of Techwell passed a board resolution, to dismiss both Mr. Ng and Miss Yam with immediate effect and remove Mr. Ng from the board of Techwell (the “Resolution”). On January 16, 2009, Mr. Ng and Miss Yam filed a lawsuit in the High Court of Hong Kong against us and our subsidiary, Full Art International Limited. The lawsuit alleges that, inter alia , (i) we misrepresented to them the financial status of our company and operations during the course the negotiations of the acquisition of Techwell; (ii) we failed to perform our obligations under a settlement agreement alleged to have been agreed to by us in January 2009; and (iii) the dismissal of Mr. Ng was unlawful and invalid. 24 On January 23, 2009 an ex-parte injunction order was granted to Mr. Ng, restraining us from implementing the Resolution, which was eventually dismissed with immediate effect on February 25, 2009 after a court session in the High Court of Hong Kong. Mr. Ng was also ordered to bear the costs of the various court proceedings in connection with the injunction order. On March 27, 2009, Mr. Ng and Miss Yam filed a summons in the High Court of Hong Kong seeking a court order for leave to join the Company’s principal shareholder, KGE Group Limited, as a defendant in the lawsuit, which was granted on April 9, 2009. As a result, KGE Group Limited became one of the defendants of the lawsuit. On May 12, 2009, the Company filed a Defense and Counterclaim at the High Court of Hong Kong in response to a Statement of Claim served by Mr. Ng and Miss Yam on the Company on April 7, 2009. We intend to vigorously defend this pending lawsuit; however, no assurance can be given that the lawsuit will be resolved in our favor. Even if we successfully defend the lawsuit, we may incur substantial costs defending or settling the lawsuit, in addition to a possible diversion of the time and attention of our management from our business. If we are unsuccessful in defending the lawsuit, we may be required to pay a significant amount of damages and/or we may potentially lose ownership of Techwell, which will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the event we lose ownership of Techwell, we will lose the approximately $17.1 million of profit contribution since the acquisition of Techwell. If we acquire or invest in other businesses or other assets, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for such transactions. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses and other assets that we believe are strategic. We may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. Even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business or other asset, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: · retaining key employees and maintaining the key business and customer relationships of the businesses we acquire; · cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization; · the possibility that the combined company would not achieve the expected benefits, including any anticipated operating and product synergies, of the acquisition as quickly as anticipated or that the costs of, or operational difficulties arising from, an acquisition would be greater than anticipated; · significant acquisition-related accounting adjustments or charges, particularly relating to an acquired company's deferred revenue, that may cause reported revenue and profits of the combined company to be lower than the sum of their stand-alone revenue and profits; · the need to integrate an acquired company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting, and the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; and · litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risks as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or other third parties. Future acquisitions and investments could also involve the issuance of our equity and equity-linked securities (potentially diluting our existing stockholders), the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased cash and non-cash expenses such as stock-based compensation. Any of the foregoing factors could harm our financial condition or prevent us from achieving improvements in our financial condition and operating performance that could have otherwise been achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. Our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. Force majeure events, including natural disasters and terrorists’ actions have negatively impacted and could further negatively impact the economies in which we operate, which may affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Force majeure events, including natural disasters, such as Typhoon Pai Bi An that affected the Southeastern China Coast in August 2006 and terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, could negatively impact the economies in which we operate. We typically remain obligated to perform our services after a terrorist action or natural disaster unless the contract contains a force majeure clause that relieves us of our contractual obligations in such an extraordinary event. If we are not able to react quickly to force majeure , our operations may be affected significantly, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 25 We may suffer as a result of product liability or defective products. We may produce products which injure or kill individuals despite proper testing. Existing PRC, Qatar and UAE laws and regulations do not require us to maintain third party liability insurance to cover product liability claims. In the United States and Australia, we are required to maintain third party liability insurance. However, if a product liability claim is brought against us, it may, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, result in damage to our reputation, breach of contract with our customers, decreased demand for our products, costly litigation, product recalls, loss of revenue, and the inability to commercialize some products. We incur costs to comply with environmental laws and have liabilities for environmental cleanups. Because we have air emissions, discharge wastewater, and handle hazardous substances and solid waste at our fabrication facilities, we incur costs and liabilities to comply with environmental laws and regulations and may incur significant additional costs as those laws and regulations change in the future or if there is an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. The operations of our fabrication facilities are subject to stringent and complex environmental laws and regulations that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent waste for disposal. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. If our partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to legal liability, loss of reputation or reduced profits. We sometimes enter into subcontracts, joint ventures and other contractual arrangements with outside partners to jointly bid on and execute a particular project. The success of these joint projects depends upon, among other things, the satisfactory performance of the contractual obligations of our partners. If any of our partners fails to satisfactorily perform its contractual obligations, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to complete the project. If we are unable to adequately address our partner’s performance issues, then our client could terminate the joint project, exposing us to legal liability, loss of reputation or reduced profits. Our failure to attract and retain key employees could impair our ability to provide services to our clients and otherwise conduct our business effectively. As we shift the focus of our business to that of a professional and technical services company, we will become increasingly labor intensive, and, therefore, our ability to attract, retain and expand our senior management and our professional and technical staff is an important factor in determining our future success. Key personnel include, but is not limited to, Zhixin (Steven) Xing, our Chief Executive Officer and Luo Ken Yi, our Director and President, each of whom perform vital functions in the operation of our business. From time to time, it may be difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals with the expertise and in the timeframe demanded by our clients. In addition, we rely heavily upon the expertise and leadership of our senior management. If we are unable to retain executives and other key personnel, the roles and responsibilities of those employees will need to be filled, which may require that we devote time and resources in identifying, hiring and integrating new employees. In addition, the failure to attract and retain key individuals could impair our ability to provide services to our clients and conduct our business effectively. We cannot guarantee the protection of our intellectual property rights and if infringement or counterfeiting of our intellectual property rights occurs, our reputation and business may be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to preserve our patents and trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. If we fail to maintain our patents and trade secret protections, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary rights. In addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage. If a third party initiates litigation regarding our patents, and is successful, a court could revoke our patents or limit the scope of coverage for those patents. We also rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. We attempt to protect this information with security measures such as the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate collaborators. It is possible that these individuals will breach these agreements and that any remedies for a breach will be insufficient to allow us to recover our costs. Furthermore, our trade secrets, know-how and other technology may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Furthermore, we have registered and applied for registration of our trademarks in the PRC, where we have a substantial business presence, to protect the reputation of our products. Our products are sold under these trademarks. There is no assurance that there will not be any infringement of our brand name or other registered trademarks or counterfeiting of our products in the future. Should any such infringement or counterfeiting occur, our reputation and business may be adversely affected. We may also incur significant expenses and substantial amounts of time and effort to enforce our intellectual property rights in the future. Such diversion of our resources may adversely affect our existing business and future expansion plans. 26 RISKS RELATED TO OUR ACQUISITION OF CONNGAME The development of MMORPG products requires substantial up-front expenditures. We may not be able to recover development costs for our future MMORPG products. Consumer preferences for games are usually cyclical and difficult to predict, and even the most successful titles remain popular for only limited periods of time, unless refreshed with new content. We will be required to continuously develop new products and enhancements to existing products. Because of the significant complexity of MMORPG games, these products require a longer development time and are more expensive to create than traditional console game products. In addition, the long lead time involved in developing a MMORPG product and the significant allocation of financial resources that each product requires means it is critical that we accurately predict consumer demand for new MMORPG products. If future MMORPG products do not achieve expected market acceptance or generate sufficient sales upon introduction, we may not be able to recover the development and marketing costs associated with new products, and our financial results could suffer. If we fail to establish a system and network infrastructure that operates effectively, our ability to successfully launch and maintain our online games may be harmed. Our business may be harmed if we are unable to upgrade our systems fast enough to accommodate traffic levels, avoid obsolescence or successfully integrate any newly developed or acquired technology with our existing systems. Furthermore, our network capacity depends on our network servers and the communication bandwidth to which we have access. Constraints in network capacity could cause unanticipated system disruptions and slower response time, affecting data transmission and game play. These factors could, among other things, cause us to lose potential customers, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business and planned operations. We may not be able to ever generate any significant revenues and profitability as we operate in a highly competitive industry and compete against many companies. There are many online game operators in China, and given the relatively low entry barriers to operating online games, we expect more companies to enter the online game industry in China and a wider range of online games to be introduced to the China market. In addition, we also face potential competition from major Internet portal operators, other domestic and foreign game developers and publishers, and alliances between our existing and new competitors. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial and marketing resources and name recognition than we have. Some of our competitors or potential competitors, especially major foreign online game developers, have greater game development resources than we have. In addition, many of our competitors have developed and operated games that have proven commercially successful. As a result, they may be able to take greater risks and endure lower than expected performances from some of their games than we are able to do. We believe that competition in the online game market in China may become more intense as increasing numbers of online games are introduced in the market. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully enter the market and compete against any new or existing competitors, or against any new business models implemented by them. All of these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Although we expect that the acquisition of ConnGame will result in benefits to us, we may not realize those benefits because of integration difficulties and other challenges. Because we issued 6,250,000 shares of our common stock as consideration in the Acquisition, our shareholders suffered immediate dilution. Following the issuance of the Shares, holders of our outstanding common stock prior to such issuance owned approximately 68.8% of our outstanding common stock after the Stock Issuance. The success of the acquisition of ConnGame will be dependent in large part on the success of our management in integrating the operations, technologies and personnel of the two companies. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully completing the integration of the operations of ConnGame or to otherwise realize any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, including additional revenue opportunities, could impair our results of operations. The challenges may be particularly difficult for our company because we have never been engaged in the MMORPG industry prior to the acquisition. Challenges involved in this integration include, without limitation: · integrating successfully each company's operations, technologies, products and services; · reducing the costs associated with operations; · coordinating the publishing, distribution and marketing efforts to effectively promote the services and products of our combined company; and · combining the corporate cultures, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees. We may not successfully complete the integration of our operations and ConnGame in a timely manner and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of ConnGame to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated. Anticipated benefits assume a successful integration and are based on projections, which are inherently uncertain, and other assumptions. Even if integration is successful, anticipated benefits may not be achieved. 27 We may be subject to intellectual property claims. As the number of interactive entertainment products increases and the features and content of these products continue to overlap, software developers increasingly may become subject to infringement claims. Our products often utilize complex technology that may become subject to emerging intellectual property rights of others. It is possible that third parties still may claim infringement. From time to time, we receive communications from third parties regarding such claims. Existing or future infringement claims against us, whether valid or not, may be time consuming, distracting to management and expensive to defend. Intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: · cease selling, incorporating, supporting or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; · obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property, which if available at all, may not be available on commercially favorable terms; or · redesign the affected interactive entertainment software products or hardware peripherals, which could result in additional costs, delay introduction and possibly reduce commercial appeal of the affected products. Any of these actions may harm our business and financial results. We face risks and uncertainties regarding the growth of the online game industry and market acceptance of our online games and in-game items. The online game industry is a relatively new and evolving industry and concept. The growth of the online game industry and the level of demand and market acceptance of our online games are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Our ability to successfully launch our first game and generate any significant revenue will depend on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · the growth of personal computer, Internet and broadband users and penetration in China and other markets in which we offer our games, and the rate of any such growth; · whether the online game industry, particularly in China, continues to grow and the rate of any such growth; · general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending; · the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment, particularly games of console systems, which are already popular in developed countries and may gain popularity in China and other countries in which we market our games; · changes in consumer demographics and consumer tastes and preferences; · the popularity and price of new online games and in-game items that we and our competitors launch and distribute; and · our ability to timely conduct a commercial launch of our two games in development and to establish their competitive positions in the online game market. Our ability to plan for product development and distribution and promotional activities will be significantly affected by our ability to anticipate and adapt to relatively rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. Currently, MMORPGs are popular in China. However, there is no assurance that MMORPGs will continue to be popular in China or elsewhere. A decline in the popularity of online games in general, or the MMORPGs that we operate, will likely adversely affect our business and prospects. We must be able to track and respond to changes in consumer preferences in a timely and effective manner, especially changes in game preferences and consumer spending trends relating to in-game item purchases. Our acquisition of ConnGame may be subject to adverse tax consequences, including but not limited to the uncertainty under Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on Non-resident Enterprises' Share Transfer (“Circular 698”) released in December 2009 by China's State Administration of Taxation (SAT), effective as of January 1, 2008. The recent introduction of Circular 698 increases the risk of a general anti avoidance tax challenge by the Chinese tax authority on indirect disposals of the shares in the underlying Chinese companies with a potential consequence of paying Chinese tax on the gain derived from such disposals. Pursuant to Circular 698, where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise by selling the shares in an offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country (jurisdiction) where the effective tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore income of her residents is not taxable, the foreign investor is required to provide the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise with the relevant information within 30 days of the transfers. Where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise through the abuse of form of organization and there are no reasonable commercial purposes such that the corporate income tax liability is avoided, the tax authority may re-assess the nature of the equity transfer in accordance with the “substance-over-form” principle and deny the existence of the offshore holding company that is used for tax planning purposes. 28 While the term "indirectly transfer" is not defined, we understand that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. The relevant authority has not yet promulgated any formal provisions or formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax in the country (jurisdiction) and to what extent and the process of the disclosure to the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise. Meanwhile, there are not any formal declarations with regard to how to decide “abuse of form of organization” and “reasonable commercial purpose,” which can be utilized by us to balance if our acquisition complied with the Circular 698. As a result, there is uncertainty as to whether the payment of our common stock may be subject to tax liability or foreign exchange control in the PRC and there is a risk of unforeseen tax liability, each of which may have a material adverse effect to our financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to comply with the terms of the Waiver, including payments required to be made by us, the waiver of the adjustment rights may become voided and the conversion and exercise prices of the bonds and warrants may adjust down, resulting in substantial dilution to our securities and immediate repayment of the Bonds. One of the conditions to the Acquisition was that we obtain a waiver from our bondholders related to their rights to have the conversion and exercise price of the Bonds and 2008 Warrants, respectively, adjusted downward as a result of ours issuance of the 6,250,000 Shares. We obtained the Waiver on February 24, 2010. The Waiver had a three month term from the execution date, and therefore expired on May 24, 2010. The parties entered into a new waiver on July 13, 2010, which has a three month term subject to the terms and conditions contained therein. We close the transaction within the three-month period. We have failed to make certain payments specified in the Waiver and are currently negotiating with the bondholders to amend the Waiver. If we are not able to reach an agreement with the bondholders, all rights of the holders of the Bonds and 2008 Warrants waived under the Waiver to or to be waived under the Waiver, shall not be waived and will be reinstated, and any previous waivers will be null and void. There are restrictive covenants in the Waiver relating to our ability to incur future indebtedness. Pursuant to the Waiver, we agreed that we will not repay or prepay any debt prior to its currently scheduled due date until we make all of the payments required by the Waiver and the Bonds have been redeemed in full. Additionally, we agreed that any new indebtedness incurred by us for the purpose of repaying the amounts owed to the Overdraft Lender under the overdraft facility letter (i) will not exceed the amounts due under the facility and (ii) will be subordinated to all amounts owed under the Bonds. Therefore, only after we make all of the required payments pursuant to the Waiver, will we be able to incur additional debt, including secured indebtedness or indebtedness by, or other obligations of, our subsidiaries to which the Bonds would be structurally subordinate. A higher level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our indebtedness or that future working capital, borrowings or equity financing will be available to pay or refinance such indebtedness. Integrating and maintaining internal controls for the combined business may strain our resources and divert management's attention. If we fail to establish and maintain proper internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. Prior to the consummation of the acquisition, ConnGame was not subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of any stock exchange. As a subsidiary of ours, ConnGame is subject to such rules and regulations. As described in Item 9A of this Form 10-K, it was determined that our controls and procedures were not effective as of December 30, 2010. In addition, we have historically had difficulties in establishing effective internal controls on past acquisitions, namely Techwell. Integrating and maintaining appropriate internal controls and procedures for the combined business will require specific compliance training of certain officers and employees, will entail substantial costs in order to modify existing accounting systems, and will take a significant period of time to complete. We may not be able to demonstrate compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, or that our internal controls are perceived as inadequate, or that we are unable to produce timely or accurate financial statements, investors may lose confidence in our operating results and our stock price could decline. 29 RISKS RELATED TO US DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China, and changes in the political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and the results of operations and financial condition. Our business operations may be adversely affected by the current and future political environment in the PRC. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence and control over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, raw materials, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. Under the current government leadership, the government of the PRC has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the government of the PRC will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC, particularly in our industry since it involves obtaining project contracts from the government of China and other countries. Our executive officers and employees have not been subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prior to 2007. We can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business. The PRC’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes, in which system decided legal cases have little value as precedents unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. The Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We are considered a foreign persons or foreign funded enterprise under PRC laws, and as a result, we are required to comply with PRC laws and regulations. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. If the relevant authorities find us in violation of PRC laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: · levying fines; · revoking our business and other licenses; · requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and · requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. According to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, China’s Consumer Price Index increased 2.7% in February 2010 over February 2009. If prices for our products and services rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies such as raw materials, it may have an adverse effect on our profitability. Furthermore, in order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. In January 2010, the Chinese government took steps to tighten the availability of credit including ordering banks to increase the amount of reserves they hold and to reduce or limit their lending. The implementation of such policies may impede economic growth. In 2004, the People’s Bank of China, the PRC’s central bank, raised interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade and indicated in a statement that the measure was prompted by inflationary concerns in the Chinese economy. In 2007, and most recently in October 2010, the People’s Bank of China raised the interest rate again. Repeated rises in interest rates by the central bank would likely slow economic activity in China which could, in turn, materially increase our costs and also reduce demand for our products and services. 30 PRC regulations relating to acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities has created regulatory uncertainties that could restrict or limit our ability to operate. Our failure to obtain the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, for the listing and trading of our common stock on a national securities exchange in the United States could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our common stock. Within the last five years, the PRC government has, on several occasions, amended its regulations relating to overseas listings of PRC businesses. Most recently, on August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the Ministry of Commerce, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, CSRC and SAFE, jointly issued the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors. This regulation became effective on September 8, 2006 and includes provisions that purport to require offshore special purpose vehicles: (i) controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or citizens; and (ii) formed for the purpose of effecting an overseas listing of a PRC company to obtain the approval of CSRC prior to the completion of the overseas listing. On September 8, 2006, CSRC published procedures regarding the approval process associated with overseas listings of special purpose vehicles. There is little precedent as to how CSRC will interpret the new regulation and apply the related procedures. Our PRC counsel, Guangdong Seagull Law Firm, has advised us that because we completed our restructuring before September 8, 2006, the effective date of the new regulation, it is not necessary for us to submit the application to the CSRC for its approval, and the listing and trading of our Common Stock on a national securities exchange does not require CSRC approval. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC approval was required for our initial public offering that was completed on October 3, 2007, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our initial public offering or subsequent offerings into the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our Common Stock. These new rules may significantly affect the means by which offshore-onshore restructurings are undertaken in China in connection with offshore private equity and venture capital financings, mergers and acquisitions. It is expected that such transactional activity in China in the near future will require significant case-by-case guidance from Ministry of Commerce and other government authorities as appropriate. Given the uncertainties regarding interpretation and application of the new rules, we may need to expend significant time and resources to maintain compliance. It is uncertain how our business operations or future strategy will be affected by the interpretations and implementation of these new rules. Our business operations or future strategy could be adversely affected by these new rules. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities. Under the New EIT Law, we and Full Art may be classified as “resident enterprises” of China for tax purpose, which may subject us and Full Art to PRC income tax on taxable global income. Under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law (the “New EIT Law”) and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008, enterprises are classified as resident enterprises and non-resident enterprises. An enterprise established outside of China with its “de facto management bodies” located within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese domestic enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the New EIT Law define de facto management body as a managing body that in practice exercises “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. Due to the short history of the New EIT law and lack of applicable legal precedents, it remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will determine the PRC tax resident treatment of a foreign company such as us and Full Art. Both our and Full Art’s members of management are located in China. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we or Full Art is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income, including interest income on the proceeds from this offering, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, the New EIT Law provides that dividend paid between “qualified resident enterprises” is exempted from enterprise income tax. A circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation regarding the standards used to classify certain Chinese-invested enterprises controlled by Chinese enterprises or Chinese group enterprises and established outside of China as “resident enterprises” clarified that dividends and other income paid by such “resident enterprises” will be considered to be PRC source income, subject to PRC withholding tax, currently at a rate of 10%, when recognized by non-PRC shareholders. It is unclear whether the dividends that we or Full Art receives from Zhuhai King Glass Engineering Co., Limited or any of our other PRC subsidiaries will constitute dividends between “qualified resident enterprises” and would therefore qualify for tax exemption, because the definition of qualified resident enterprises is unclear and the relevant PRC government authorities have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. We are actively monitoring the possibility of “resident enterprise” treatment for the applicable tax years and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. As a result of the New EIT Law, our historical operating results will not be indicative of our operating results for future periods and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected. 31 Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and any gain on the sale of our shares may be subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. If dividends payable to our shareholders are treated as income derived from sources within China, then the dividends that shareholders receive from us, and any gain on the sale or transfer of our shares, may be subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules, PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable by us to our investors that are non-resident enterprises so long as such non-resident enterprise investors do not have an establishment or place of business in China or, despite the existence of such establishment of place of business in China, the relevant income is not effectively connected with such establishment or place of business in China, to the extent that such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of our shares by such investors is also subject to a 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within China and we are considered as a resident enterprise which is domiciled in China for tax purpose. Additionally, there is a possibility that the relevant PRC tax authorities may take the view that the purpose of us and Full Art is holding Zhuhai King Glass Engineering Co., Limited or any of our other PRC subsidiaries, and the capital gain derived by our overseas shareholders or investors from the share transfer is deemed China-sourced income, in which case such capital gain may be subject to a PRC withholding tax at the rate of up to 10%. If we are required under the New EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our foreign shareholders or investors who are non-resident enterprises, or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer or our shares under the circumstances mentioned above, the value of your investment in our shares may be materially and adversely affected. In January, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Provisional Measures for the Administration of Withholding of Enterprise Income Tax for Non-resident Enterprises (“Measures”), pursuant to which, the entities which have the direct obligation to make the following payment to a non-resident enterprise shall be the relevant tax withholders for such non-resident enterprise, and such payment includes: incomes from equity investment (including dividends and other return on investment), interests, rents, royalties, and incomes from assignment of property as well as other incomes subject to enterprise income tax received by non-resident enterprises in China. Further, the Measures provides that in case of equity transfer between two non-resident enterprises which occurs outside China, the non-resident enterprise which receives the equity transfer payment shall, by itself or engage an agent to, file tax declaration with the PRC tax authority located at place of the PRC company whose equity has been transferred, and the PRC company whose equity has been transferred shall assist the tax authorities to collect taxes from the relevant non-resident enterprise. However, it is unclear whether the Measures refer to the equity transfer by a non-resident enterprise which is a direct or an indirect shareholder of the said PRC company. Given these Measures, there is a possibility that we may have an obligation to withhold income tax in respect of the dividends paid to non-resident enterprise investors. The foreign currency exchange rate between U.S. Dollars and Renminbi could adversely affect our financial condition. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. Dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs, our financial position and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. Dollar at that time. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. Dollars for our operational needs or paying dividends on our common stock, the dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced should the dollar appreciate against the Renminbi. We currently do not hedge our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Until 1994, the Renminbi experienced a gradual but significant devaluation against most major currencies, including dollars, and there was a significant devaluation of the Renminbi on January 1, 1994 in connection with the replacement of the dual exchange rate system with a unified managed floating rate foreign exchange system. Since 1994, the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. Dollar has remained stable and has appreciated slightly against the U.S. Dollar. Countries, including the United States, have argued that the Renminbi is artificially undervalued due to China’s current monetary policies and have pressured China to allow the Renminbi to float freely in world markets. In July 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the dollar. Under the new policy the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of designated foreign currencies. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the dollar. Any recurrence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), Avian Flu, or another widespread public health problem, in the PRC could adversely affect our operations. A renewed outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, Avian Flu or another widespread public health problem in China, where all of our manufacturing facilities are located and where all of our sales occur, could have a negative effect on our operations. Such an outbreak could have an impact on our operations as a result of: 32 · quarantines or closures of some of our manufacturing facilities, which would severely disrupt our operations, · the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and · a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our operations. Contract drafting, interpretation and enforcement in China involve significant uncertainty, which could leave us vulnerable to legal disputes and challenges related to our contracts. We have entered into numerous contracts governed by PRC law, many of which are material to our business. As compared with contracts in the United States, contracts governed by PRC law tend to contain less detail and are not as comprehensive in defining contracting parties’ rights and obligations. As a result, contracts in China are more vulnerable to disputes and legal challenges. In addition, contract interpretation and enforcement in China is not as developed as in the United States, and the result of any contract dispute is subject to significant uncertainties. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to disputes under our material contracts, and if such disputes arise, we cannot assure you that we will prevail. The scope of our business license in China is limited, and we may not expand or continue our business without government approval and renewal, respectively. Any company that conducts business in the PRC must have a business license that covers a particular type of work. Our business license covers our present business, which is to design, fabricate and install curtain wall systems (including glass, stone and metal curtain walls), roofing systems, steel construction systems, eco-energy saving building conservation systems and provision of related products, for public works and commercial real estate projects. Any amendment to the scope of our business requires further application and government approval. In order for us to expand our business beyond the scope of our license, we will be required to enter into a negotiation with the PRC authorities for the approval to expand the scope of our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the necessary government approval for any change or expansion of its business. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. PRC companies have not historically been required to adopt a Western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which includes strong corporate governance, internal controls and, computer, financial and other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls which could impact the reliability of our financial statements and prevent us from complying with SEC rules and regulations and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any actual or perceived weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal control over financial reporting, disclosure of management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting or disclosure of our public accounting firm’s attestation to or report on management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based upon U.S. laws, including the federal securities laws or other foreign laws against us or our management. Most of our current operations are conducted in China. Moreover, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of China. All or substantially all of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States and in the PRC. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these persons. In addition, uncertainty exists as to whether the courts of China would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our officers and/or directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities law of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in China against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. The ability of our Chinese operating subsidiaries to pay dividends may be restricted due to foreign exchange control regulations of China. The ability of our Chinese operating subsidiaries to pay dividends may be restricted due to the foreign exchange control policies and availability of cash balance of the Chinese operating subsidiaries. Because substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and a majority of our revenues are generated in China, all of our revenue being earned and currency received are denominated in Renminbi (RMB). RMB is subject to the exchange control regulation in China, and, as a result, we may unable to distribute any dividends outside of China due to PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into US Dollars. 33 We will not be able to complete an acquisition of prospective acquisition targets in the PRC unless their financial statements can be reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles in a timely manner. Companies based in the PRC may not have properly kept financial books and records that may be reconciled with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. If we attempt to acquire a significant PRC target company and/or its assets, we would be required to obtain or prepare financial statements of the target that are prepared in accordance with and reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Federal securities laws require that a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests require the public acquirer to prepare and file historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure with the SEC. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and the historical financial statements must be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB. If a proposed acquisition target does not have financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with, or that can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, we will not be able to acquire that proposed acquisition target. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential acquisition targets with which we may acquire and hinder our ability to expand our retail operations. Furthermore, if we consummate an acquisition and are unable to timely file audited financial statements and/or pro forma financial information required by the Exchange Act, such as Item 9.01 of Form 8-K, we will be ineligible to use the SEC’s short-form registration statement on Form S-3 to raise capital, if we are otherwise eligible to use a Form S-3. If we are ineligible to use a Form S-3, the process of raising capital may be more expensive and time consuming and the terms of any offering transaction may not be as favorable as they would have been if we were eligible to use Form S-3. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SECURITIES AND RELATED REGULATIONS Our stock price is volatile and you might not be able to sell your securities at or above the price you have paid. Since our initial public offering and listing of our common stock in October 2007, the price at which our common stock had traded has been highly volatile, with an adjusted high and low sales price of $0.52 and $82.04, respectively, as through April 15, 2011. On April 14, 2011, the closing trading price of our common stock was $1.22 per share. You might not be able to sell the shares of our common stock at or above the price you have paid. The stock market has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the performance of its listed companies. Moreover, only a limited number of our shares are traded each day, which could increase the volatility of the price of our stock. These market fluctuations might cause our stock price to fall regardless of our performance. The market price of our Common Stock might fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results of operations; · variations in our operating results, which could cause us to fail to meet analysts’ or investors’ expectations; · conditions and trends in our industry and the economy; · future sales of equity or debt securities, including sales which dilute existing investors. If our stock price decreases further, the NASDAQ Stock Market may delist our securities, which could limit investors’ ability to trade in our securities. On July 1, 2010, we received a notice from the Listing Qualifications Department (the “Staff”) of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“NASDAQ”) stating that the minimum bid price of our common stock had been below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days and that we therefore were not in compliance with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on The NASDAQ Global Select Market set forth in Listing Rule 5450(a)(1) (the “Rule”). On December 17, 2010, we filed a Certificate of Amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of Delaware effectuating a 1-for-4 reverse stock split (the “Reverse Stock Split”) of our common stock effective as of 12:01 AM EST on December 21, 2010, as a potential means to increase the per share price of our common stock such that we come into compliance with the NASDAQ Global Select Market Rule. On December 29, 2010, we received a further delisting determination letter from the Staff, indicating that the listed security was now subject to delisting from The NASDAQ Global Select Market. Subsequently, we successfully appealed NASDAQ’s delisting determination to a NASDAQ Listing Qualification Panel and has since regained compliance with the NASDAQ Rule. As of April 14, 2011, our stock price closed at $1.22. If our stock price decreases below the minimum in the future, we could be subject to delisting from NASDAQ, which could have an adverse effect on our business and on the trading of our common stock. If a delisting of our common stock were to occur, our common stock would trade on the OTC Bulletin Board or on the “pink sheets” maintained by the National Quotation Bureau, Inc. Such alternatives are generally considered to be less efficient markets, and our stock price, as well as the liquidity of our common stock, may be adversely impacted as a result. Delisting from The NASDAQ Global Select Market could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. 34 Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, as the future sale of a substantial amount of outstanding stock in the public marketplace could reduce the price of our common stock. The market price of our Common Stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. Under Rule 144, an affiliate stockholder who has satisfied a the required holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three-month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. As of December 31, 2010, 1% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock were approximately 200,000 shares. Non-affiliate stockholders are not subject to volume limitations. Any substantial sale of common stock pursuant to any resale prospectus or Rule 144 may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock by creating an excessive supply. Our officers and directors have limited experience in public company reporting and financial accounting, which could impair our ability to satisfy public company filing requirements and increase our securities compliance costs. Our officers and directors have limited experience as officers and directors of a publicly traded company, or in complying with the regulatory requirements applicable to a public company. As a result, we could have difficulty satisfying the regulatory requirements applicable to public companies, which could adversely affect the market for our common stock. At present, we rely upon outside experts to advise us on matters relating to financial accounting and public company reporting. While we believe that it will be possible to satisfy our public company reporting requirements through the use of third party experts, our general and administrative costs will remain higher to the extent our officers alone are not able to satisfy our public company reporting requirements. We do not foresee paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not plan to declare or pay any cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future and we currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth. As a result, you should not rely on an investment in our securities if you require dividend income. Capital appreciation, if any, of our shares may be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Moreover, you may not be able to sell your shares in our company at or above the price you paid for them. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 