ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, results of operations and financial condition, and an investment in our securities, are subject to various risks. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks or other risks which have not been identified or which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. This could cause the value of our securities to decline and holders could lose part or all of their investment. This section does not describe all risks applicable to us, our business or industry, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material factors. Risks Relating to Our Business and the Industry Our operations and our industry may be adversely affected by the European debt crisis. During 2011, the long term structural deficits in numerous European nations coupled with the deterioration of the economic outlook led weaker European Union nations to a liquidity and solvency crisis. Eurozone leaders have made numerous attempts to solve this debt crisis; but, to date a sustainable long term solution has not been implemented and much uncertainty remains. The crisis has had a negative impact on major European banks. On January 13, 2012, nine European nations had their credit ratings downgraded by Standard and Poor’s by at least one notch. Failure to successfully resolve the debt crisis could lead to significant losses for sovereign debt holders including major European banks and investors. In the worst case, the crisis could lead to the voluntary exit or expulsion of certain countries from the Euro currency block and/or a collapse of the Eurozone financial system. A break up of the Eurozone would be a deeply disruptive global economic event. The ongoing crisis continues to have a negative impact on the European economy. A prolonged downturn could disrupt the current US recovery and weaken global trade, hamper key emerging markets such as China and India, and result in another global recession with reduced demand and lower prices for paper. Among the various impacts a worsening Eurozone debt crisis could have, the following represent the most material to our operations and industry: • regional economic recession which could spread globally, significantly impacting the demand for paper and, consequently, our products; 14 Table of Contents • severe tightening or shut down of credit markets resulting in a deterioration of our customers’ credit quality or access to cash lowering the realization rate on our accounts receivable; and • substantial depreciation of the Euro against our reporting currency, the US Dollar, resulting in increased currency translation risk. The economic developments mentioned above could have a significant negative impact on our earnings, cash flows, access to capital, liquidity and financial position. A sustained downturn in the paper industry, compounded by uncertainty in global economic conditions, could adversely affect our net sales and profitability. Historically, demand for our products has been driven primarily by the volume of paper produced on a worldwide basis. As a result, trends that affect the production level of the paper industry, such as declining demand for newsprint due to increased adoption of digital media, will impact our business and financial results. The profitability of paper producers has historically been highly cyclical due to wide swings in the price of paper, driven to a high degree by the oversupply of paper during periods when paper producers have more aggregate capacity than the market requires. A sustained downturn in the paper industry, either globally or in a particular region, can cause our paper manufacturing customers to reduce production, cease operations or declare bankruptcy, each of which would adversely affect our net sales and profitability. In response to significant changes in the sector, particularly in late 2008 and 2009, paper producers have continually sought to structurally improve the balance between the supply of and demand for paper. As part of these efforts, they have permanently shut down many paper-making machines or entire manufacturing facilities. Should papermakers continue to experience low levels of profitability, we would expect that further consolidation among papermakers, reducing the number of paper producers, and shutdowns of paper-making machines or facilities could occur in Europe and North America, until there is a better balance between supply and demand for paper and the profit levels of paper producers improve. This rebalancing was accelerated during the most recent global economic recession. Global paper production growth that does occur could be moderated by the level of industry consolidation and paper-machine shutdown activity that appears to be an underlying trend in North America and Europe. In 2010, we believed that paper production in both North America and Europe appeared to have bottomed out as market-related curtailment abated. During the first half of 2011, global paper demand increased and machine operating rates escalated across most paper grades and geographic regions, although this expansion slowed substantially during the second half of 2011. We continue to see the trend that paper producers are focusing on cost reduction strategies and, as a result, are extending the life of roll covers and clothing products through additional maintenance cycles before replacing them. We anticipate that pricing pressure for our products may continue with the consolidation among paper producers and as the shift of paper production growth in Asia-Pacific develops. We may be required to restructure our operations in response to changing conditions in the paper industry, which may require significant expenditures and may not be successful. In the past several years, we have undertaken various operational restructuring measures in response to changing market conditions in the paper industry triggered by the decline in paper prices that began in 2001. For example, between 2002 and 2011, we incurred costs of approximately $88 million in connection with our cost reduction programs including the closure of 14 manufacturing facilities worldwide. In connection with any future plant closures, delays or failures in the transition of production from a closed facility to our other facilities could also adversely affect our financial performance. We may engage in additional cost reduction programs in the future. We may not recoup the costs of programs we have already initiated, or 15 Table of Contents other programs we may in the future decide to engage in, the costs of which may be significant. In addition, our profitability may decline if our restructuring efforts do not sufficiently reduce our future costs while at the same time positioning us to maintain or increase our sales. Our manufacturing facilities may be required to increase or decrease production capacity, which could negatively affect our production, customer order time, product quality, labor relations or gross margin. As part of our efforts to reduce our costs, we have attempted to reduce or eliminate excess manufacturing capacity through closure of certain of our manufacturing plants and consolidation of our production. As a result, however, from time to time our ability to meet customer demand for our products may rely on our ability to operate our remaining manufacturing facilities at or near capacity on an uninterrupted basis. Our manufacturing facilities are dependent on critical equipment, and operating such equipment at or near capacity for extended periods may result in increased equipment failures or other reliability problems, which may result in production shutdowns or periods of reduced production. Such disruptions could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. In addition, insufficient manufacturing capacity or other delays may cause our customer order times to increase and our product quality to decrease, which may increase warranty costs and negatively affect customer demand for our products and customer relations generally. Operating our facilities at or near capacity may also negatively affect relations with our employees, which could result in higher employee turnover, labor disputes and disruptions in our operations. On the other hand, if we anticipate or experience a significant decrease in demand for our products, we may choose to temporarily decrease production or idle manufacturing facilities and employees. While decreasing production may mitigate some of the risks of operating at or near capacity discussed above, a significant drop off in production to meet lower demand, including idling facilities or employees, will negatively impact our gross margin. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our net sales, profitability and compliance with our debt covenants. Our foreign operations expose us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and currency devaluations. We report our financial results in U.S. Dollars, but a substantial portion of our sales, expenses and debt are denominated in Euros and other currencies. As a result, changes in the relative values of U.S. Dollars, Euros and other currencies will affect our levels of net sales and profitability. Currency fluctuations, as they pertain to the Euro, generally have a greater effect on the level of our net sales due to the amount of business we conduct in Euros. An increase in the U.S. Dollar against the Euro generally results in a decrease to net sales and net income. Increases in the U.S. Dollar against other currencies, such as the Brazilian Real, would not impact consolidated net sales as much, as a significant portion of sales in that country is significantly denominated in or indexed to U.S. Dollars, but generally would increase net income as local currency costs would be translated into lower U.S. Dollar expenses for financial reporting purposes. We would expect a similar but opposite effect in a period in which the value of the U.S. Dollar decreases against these currencies. Although in certain circumstances we attempt to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, our hedging strategies may not be effective. In addition, our Credit Facility (defined in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Credit Facility and Notes.”) contains financial covenants that require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio, a maximum leverage ratio and an annual limitation on capital expenditures. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Credit Facility and Notes”. Our ability to comply with these covenants will depend in part upon our reported financial results, which as indicated above, are directly affected by currency fluctuations. Since each of the financial ratio covenants are calculated by reference to the amount of our Adjusted EBITDA, currency fluctuations alone could lower the amount of our Adjusted EBITDA and therefore affect our ability to remain in compliance with our financial ratio covenants. For the purposes of computing debt, which is a key component in the calculation of the leverage ratio, indebtedness which is payable in foreign currencies shall be converted into U.S. Dollars using the average exchange rate for the most recently ended four fiscal quarters for which our financial statements are available. For additional information about the risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Foreign Exchange”. 16 Table of Contents Price competition in our industry could adversely affect our gross margins and net sales. Historically, we and our competitors have been able to sell clothing and roll cover products and services at favorable prices that reflect the value they deliver to customers. This favorable pricing has been particularly derived from our more technologically advanced products, such as forming fabrics, press felts and advanced roll covers. In recent years, due to global economic conditions and over capacity in the paper manufacturing industry, the financial health of our customers and continued pricing pressure from our competitors has required us to price our products, in some cases, at levels insufficient to realize our historical gross margins when faced with increasing raw material and labor costs. Increased pricing pressure from our competitors may require price decreases or make us unable to affect planned price increases and, thereby, adversely affect our profitability. Our industry is competitive and our future success will depend on our ability to effectively develop, market and supply competitive products. The paper-making consumables industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors are larger than us, have greater financial and other resources and are well-established as suppliers to the markets we serve. For example, while we are targeting expansion of our business in China, we face substantial competition from manufacturers already operating there that are more established and familiar with the Chinese marketplace. In addition, some of our competitors also manufacture paper-making machines and have the ability to initially package sales of their clothing and roll cover products with the sale of their machines and/or to tie the warranties on their machines to the use of their clothing and roll cover products. Due to various factors such as price or product innovation by our competitors, our products may not be able to compete successfully with the products of our competitors, which could result in a loss of customers and, as a result, decreased net sales and profitability. Because we have substantial operations outside the United States, we are subject to the economic and political conditions of foreign nations. We have manufacturing facilities in 14 foreign countries. In 2011, we sold products in approximately 58 countries other than the United States, which represented approximately 73.3% of our net sales. We operate in a number of foreign countries and may face challenges unique to those countries such as in hiring employees, our relations with various parties, including suppliers and governmental agencies, and in production. Furthermore, we may decide to do business in countries where we have not previously done business. In such countries we face the additional uncertainty of entering a new market and its social customs, laws and practices. Should these challenges be realized, our operating results could be adversely impacted and our business or production may be delayed. Our foreign operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including risks that: • foreign governments may impose limitations on our ability to repatriate funds; • foreign governments may impose withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to us, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; • an outbreak or escalation of any insurrection or armed conflict may occur; • foreign governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting our business; or • changes in and interpretations of tax policies of foreign governments may adversely affect our foreign subsidiaries. The occurrence of any of these conditions could disrupt our business in particular countries or regions of the world, or prevent us from conducting business in particular countries or regions, which could adversely affect our net sales and profitability. In addition, as a holding company we rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from our subsidiaries to meet our debt obligations. If foreign governments impose limitations on our 17 Table of Contents ability to repatriate funds or impose or increase taxes on remittances or other payments to us, the amount of dividends and other distributions we receive from our subsidiaries could be reduced, which could reduce the amount of cash available to us to meet our debt obligations. Energy price increases may negatively impact our results of operations. Certain of the components that we use in our manufacturing activities are petroleum-based. In addition, we, along with our suppliers and customers, rely on various energy sources (including oil) in our transportation activities. While significant uncertainty currently exists about the future levels of energy prices, a significant further increase is possible. Increased energy prices could cause an increase to our raw material costs and transportation costs. In addition, increased transportation costs of certain of our suppliers could be passed along to us. We may not be able to increase our prices enough to offset these increased costs. In addition, any increase in our prices may reduce our future customer orders and profitability. We must continue to innovate and improve our products to maintain our competitive advantage. We compete primarily based on the value our products deliver to our customers. Our value proposition is based on a combination of price and the technology and performance of our products, including the ability of our products to help reduce our customers’ production costs and increase the quality of the paper they produce. Our ability to retain our customers and increase our business depends on our ability to continually develop new, technologically superior products that support our value proposition. We cannot assure that our investments in technological development will be sufficient, that we will be able to create and market new products, that such new products will be accepted by our customers or that we will be successful in competing against new technologies developed by competitors. In addition, either we or our competitors could develop new technologies that increase the useful life of clothing or roll covers, which could reduce the frequency with which our customers would need to replace their clothing and refurbish or replace their roll covers, and consequently lead to fewer sales. We believe that market recognition of the extended life of our roll cover products and the trend towards new paper-making machine designs which have fewer rolls will continue to negatively impact the demand for our roll cover products. We have seen a trend that paper producers are placing an increasingly strong emphasis on maintenance cost reduction and, as a result, are extending the life of roll covers through additional maintenance cycles before replacing them. Market recognition of the extended life of our roll cover products negatively impacts the demand for these products. In addition, we have seen a trend towards new paper-making machine designs which have fewer rolls, also negatively impacting the demand for our roll cover products. If we are not able to offset these negative impacts on the demand for our roll cover products with growth from new roll cover products, the sale of roll cover products in regions which we believe have high growth potential such as China, or from other sources, the volume of our roll cover sales will be adversely affected. The loss of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. Our top ten customers generated 22.3% of our net sales during 2011. The loss of one or more of our major customers, financial difficulties faced by our customers or a substantial decrease in such customers’ purchases from us, could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. Because we do not generally have binding long-term purchasing agreements with our customers, there can be no assurance that our existing customers will continue to purchase products from us. 18 Table of Contents We may fail to adequately protect our proprietary technology, which would allow competitors or others to take advantage of our research and development efforts. We rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how, and continuing technological innovation to develop new products and remain competitive. If our competitors learn of our proprietary technology, they may use this information to produce products that are equivalent or superior to our products, which could reduce the net sales of our products. Our employees, consultants, and corporate collaborators may breach their obligations not to reveal our confidential information, and any remedies available to us may be insufficient to compensate our damages. Even in the absence of such breaches, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how may otherwise become known to our competitors, or be independently discovered by our competitors, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Our success and ability to compete in the future may depend upon obtaining sufficient patent protection for proprietary technology. Our patent applications may not result in issued patents, and even if they result in issued patents, the patents may not have claims of the scope we seek. Even in the event that these patents are not issued, the applications may become publicly available and proprietary information disclosed in the applications will become available to others. In addition, any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or declared unenforceable. The term of any issued patent in the United States is 20 years from its filing date, and if our applications are pending for a long time period, we may have a correspondingly shorter term for any patent that may be issued. Our present and future patents may provide only limited protection for our technology and may not be sufficient to provide competitive advantages to us. For example, competitors could be successful in challenging any issued patents or, alternatively, could develop similar or more advantageous technologies on their own or design around our patents. Also, patent protection in certain foreign countries may not be available or may be limited in scope and any patents obtained may not be as readily enforceable as in the United States, making it difficult for us to effectively protect our intellectual property from misuse or infringement by other companies in these countries. Our inability to obtain and enforce our intellectual property rights in some countries may harm our business. In addition, given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important. We may be liable for product defects or other claims relating to our products. Our products could be defective, fail to perform as designed or otherwise cause harm to our customers, their equipment or their products. If any of our products are defective, we may be required to recall the products and/or repair or replace them, which could result in substantial expenses and affect our profitability. Any problems with the performance of our products could harm our reputation, which could result in a loss of sales to customers and/or potential customers. In addition, if our customers believe that they have suffered harm caused by our products, they could bring claims against us that could result in significant liability. A failure of our products could cause substantial damage to a paper-making machine. Any claims brought against us by customers may result in: • diversion of management’s time and attention; • expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, expenses, and payment of damages; • decreased demand for our products and services; and • injury to our reputation. Our insurance may not sufficiently cover a large judgment against us or a large settlement payment, and is subject to customary deductibles, limits and exclusions. 19 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our future success depends on the continued contributions of our key senior management personnel, however, we anticipate that Stephen R. Light, our current Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, will retire during 2012. While we are searching for a permanent replacement, we can give no assurances as to when, or if, we will locate a suitable candidate, and we may be adversely affected if we are unable to identify a qualified permanent replacement for Mr. Light in a timely manner. Besides the anticipated loss of Mr. Light, the loss of services of any of our other key personnel might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives and could cause us to incur additional costs to recruit replacements. Each member of our executive management team may terminate his or her employment at any time. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance with respect to any of our executives. We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under laws protecting the environment and human health. Our operations and facilities are subject to a number of national, state and local laws and regulations protecting the environment and human health in the United States and foreign countries that govern, among other things, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, discharges of pollutants into the air and water and workplace safety. The U.S. Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended (“CERCLA”) provides for responses to, and, in some instances, joint and several liability for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Environmental laws also hold current owners or operators of land or businesses liable for their own and for previous owners’ or operators’ releases of hazardous or toxic substances, materials or wastes, pollutants or contaminants, including petroleum and petroleum products. Because of our operations, the history of industrial uses at some of our facilities, the operations of predecessor owners or operators of some of the businesses, and the use and release of hazardous substances at these sites, the liability provisions of environmental laws may affect us. Many of our facilities have experienced some level of regulatory scrutiny in the past and are or may be subject to further regulatory inspections, future requests for investigation or liability for regulated materials management practices. We cannot assure that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with all laws and regulations applicable to us which are designed to protect the environment and human health. We could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and third party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws, relevant common law or the environmental permits required for our operations or under workplace safety laws. While we believe that the current level of reserves is adequate, the adequacy of these reserves may change in the future due to new developments in particular matters. Adverse labor relations could harm our operations and reduce our profitability. As of December 31, 2011, we had 3,448 employees worldwide, approximately 14% of whom were subject to protection of various North American collective bargaining agreements and approximately 53% of whom were subject to job protection as members of European or South American trade unions, employee associations or workers’ councils. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 9% of the employees subject to North American collective bargaining agreements (or approximately 1% of our total employees) were covered by an agreement that was set to expire prior to December 31, 2012. We cannot be certain that we will be able to renew the collective bargaining agreement set to expire this year, or enter into a new collective bargaining agreement that does not adversely affect our operating result, or that we will be without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. In addition, all of our European and South American employees subject to job protection as members of trade unions, employee associations or workers’ councils are subject to arrangements that typically result in higher negotiated or mandated salary increases on either an annual or biannual basis. We cannot be certain that the terms of employment applicable to such employees will not change in the future in a manner which adversely affects our operating results. We cannot be certain that we will not experience disruptions in our operations as a 20 Table of Contents result of labor disputes or experience other labor relations issues. If we are unable to maintain good relations with our employees, our ability to produce our products and provide services to our customers could be reduced and/or our production costs could increase, either of which could disrupt our business and reduce our net sales and profitability. We may be subject to assessment of income taxes for which we have not accrued any liability. We accrue for certain known and reasonably anticipated income tax obligations after assessing the likely outcome. In the event that actual results differ from these accruals or if we become subject to a tax obligation for which we have made no accrual, we may need to make adjustments, which could materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. For example, taxing authorities may disagree with our tax accounting methodologies and may subject us to inquiries regarding such taxes, which potentially could result in additional income tax assessments against us. In accordance with accounting rules, we do not accrue for potential income tax obligations if we deem a particular tax position, based solely on its technical merits, is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination. In making our determination, we assume that the taxing authorities will have access to all relevant facts and information. In November 2011, Xerium Technologies Brasil Indústria e Comércio S.A., a Brazilian indirect subsidiary, received a notice of proposed income tax assessment from the Federal Revenue Department of the Ministry of Finance of Brazil totaling approximately $42.6 million (subject to currency exchange rates). Although there can be no assurances, we believe at this time, that it is more likely than not that we will prevail on every tax position under examination and therefore have not accrued any amounts related to this assessment. Because we are at a preliminary stage of the process for resolving this dispute with the Federal Revenue Department, we cannot assure a favorable outcome and cannot currently estimate the timing of the final resolution of this matter. We believe we have meritorious defenses and will vigorously contest this matter. However, if the Federal Revenue Department’s initial position is sustained, the amount assessed would result in a material adjustment to our consolidated financial statements and would adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Capital Structure Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to plan for and react to changes in the economy, our industry or our business and prevent us from meeting our debt obligations. We are significantly leveraged. As of December 31, 2011, our total indebtedness was approximately $469.1 million. Our substantial degree of leverage could have important consequences to us, including the following: • it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; • a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures, and other business opportunities; • certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our Credit Facility, are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates; • if we seek to refinance our debt or require additional refinancing in the future, we may be unable to do so on attractive terms or at all; • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or our ability to adjust to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate, and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • we may be vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, or we may be unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth. 21 Table of Contents We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our future operating performance will generate sufficient cash flows to support our cash requirements. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. There can be no assurance that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, including the Credit Facility or the indenture that governs our 8.875% senior unsecured notes due 2018 (“Notes”). In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our Credit Facility and the indenture that governs the Notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result: • our debt holders could declare all outstanding debt to be due and payable; • the lenders under our Credit Facility could terminate their commitments to lend us money, declare all outstanding amounts there under due and payable, and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings; and • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation, which could result in our security holders’ loss of their investment. Despite current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the indenture governing the Notes do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. If we incur any additional indebtedness that ranks pari passu with the Notes, the holders of that new debt will be entitled to share ratably with the Note holders in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding-up of us. This may have the effect of reducing the amount of proceeds paid to our Note holders. Additionally, our Credit Facility includes up to a $30.0 million committed revolving credit facility, under which we may borrow from time to time. Furthermore, we have an uncommitted incremental credit facility allowing for increases under the revolving credit facility and term loans, and borrowing of new tranches of term loans, in each case, up to an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the greater of (i) $100.0 million and (ii) our and our subsidiaries’ Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the agreement governing our Credit Facility) for the most recent four fiscal quarters. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Credit Facility and Notes” for a more complete description of the terms and features of the Credit Facility and the Notes. Our Credit Facility and the indenture governing our Notes include a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our Credit Facility and the indenture governing our Notes include a number of customary and significant restrictions and covenants, subject to certain exceptions, that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or distributions on capital stock or redeem or repurchase capital stock; 22 Table of Contents • make investments; • create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to us; • sell stock of our subsidiaries; • transfer or sell assets; • create liens; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and • enter into mergers or consolidations. In addition, the restrictive covenants in our Credit Facility require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we can give no assurance that we will meet them. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our Credit Facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our Credit Facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding there under to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our Credit Facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our Credit Facility. If the lenders under our Credit Facility accelerate the repayment of borrowings, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our Credit Facility and our other indebtedness, including the Notes, or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our liquidity, interest expense and financial results. The term loans under our Credit Facility have variable interest rates. To the extent that we do not enter into hedging arrangements that effectively fix the interest rate on a portion of our senior debt, the interest rate on all of the debt covered by our Credit Facility will fluctuate based on LIBOR, Euribor and other variable interest rates. To the extent these interest rates increase, our interest expense may increase, in which event, we may have difficulty making interest payments and funding our other costs and our ability to comply with the financial covenants in our Credit Facility may be adversely affected. On August 8, 2011, we entered into interest rate caps covering a portion of our floating rate debt, which provide interest rate protection in the event LIBOR or Euribor exceed 3.0%. Consequently, our financial statements are exposed to the effects of interest rate fluctuations below 3.0%, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Notes Not all of our subsidiaries guarantee our obligations under the Notes, and the Notes are structurally subordinated to all indebtedness of our non-guarantor subsidiaries. The Notes are guaranteed by each of our existing and subsequently acquired, direct or indirect wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries. Except for such subsidiary guarantors of the Notes, our subsidiaries, including all of our foreign subsidiaries and our subsidiaries that are less than wholly-owned, have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay amounts due under the Notes or to make any funds available to pay those amounts, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payment. The Notes are structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other obligations of any non-guarantor subsidiary, even if such obligations do not constitute senior indebtedness, such that, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding up of any non-guarantor subsidiary, all of such subsidiary’s creditors (including trade creditors and preferred stockholders, if any) would be entitled to payment in full out of such subsidiary’s assets before we would be entitled to any payment. As a result, the Notes are effectively subordinated to all liabilities of our non-guarantor subsidiaries. 23 Table of Contents Our non-guarantor subsidiaries also may be subject to restrictions on their ability to distribute cash to us as a result of law and, as a result, we may not be able to access their cash flows to service our debt obligations, including the Notes. Our non-guarantor subsidiaries accounted for approximately $455.3 million or 77.6% of our net sales for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2011 and $496.0 million or 74.5% of our total assets and $378.8 million or 56.7% of our total liabilities as of December 31, 2011. A Note holder’s right to receive payments on the Notes is effectively junior to those lenders who have a security interest in our assets. Our obligations under the Notes and the guarantors’ obligations under their guarantees of the Notes are unsecured. As a result, the Notes and the related guarantees are effectively subordinated to all of our and the guarantors’ secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. Our obligations under our Credit Facility are secured by a pledge of substantially all of our and our guarantors’ tangible and intangible assets. In the event that we or a guarantor are declared bankrupt, become insolvent or are liquidated or reorganized, our obligations under our Credit Facility and any other secured obligations will be entitled to be paid in full from our assets or the assets of such guarantor, as the case may be, pledged as security for such obligation before any payment may be made with respect to the Notes. Holders of the Notes would participate ratably in our remaining assets or the remaining assets of the guarantor, as the case may be, with all holders of unsecured indebtedness that are deemed to rank equally with the Notes, based upon the respective amount owed to each creditor. In addition, if we default under our Credit Facility, the lenders could declare all of the funds borrowed there under, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders could foreclose on the pledged assets to the exclusion of holders of the Notes, even if an event of default exists under the indenture under which the Notes were issued at such time. Furthermore, if the lenders foreclose and sell the pledged equity interests in any subsidiary guarantor under the Notes, then that subsidiary guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the Notes automatically and immediately upon such sale. In any such event, because the Notes are not secured by any of our assets or the equity interests in subsidiary guarantors, it is possible that there would be no assets remaining from which Note holder claims could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, they might be insufficient to satisfy Note holder claims fully. As of December 31, 2011, we and our guarantor subsidiaries had $227.1 million of secured indebtedness under our Credit Facility which does not include additional borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility or incremental facility. The indenture governing the Notes permits the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness by us and our restricted subsidiaries in the future, including secured indebtedness. Any secured indebtedness incurred would rank senior to the Notes to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. Our ability to repay the Notes depends on the performance of our subsidiaries, including our non-guarantor subsidiaries, and their ability to make payments or distributions. We conduct a significant portion of our operations through our subsidiaries. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness, including the Notes, is dependent, to a significant extent, on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Unless they are guarantors of the Notes, our subsidiaries, including all of our foreign subsidiaries, do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the Notes or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness, including the Notes. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. While the indenture governing the Notes limits the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. 24 Table of Contents If cash flow from our U.S. operations is insufficient to make payments of principal and interest on our debt, including amounts due under the Notes, we must rely on cash flow from our foreign operations to make these payments. In addition, our ability to repatriate cash generated by our foreign operations or borrow from our foreign subsidiaries may be limited by tax, foreign exchange or other laws. Foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements for foreign taxes. Cash we hold in foreign entities may become subject to exchange controls that prevent their being converted into other currencies, including dollars. Foreign tax laws may affect our ability to repatriate cash from foreign subsidiaries in a tax efficient manner or at all. Legal and contractual dividend restrictions may prevent foreign subsidiaries from paying dividends or other cash distributions to service payments on the Notes, and directors and officers of such foreign subsidiaries may therefore be unable or unwilling to authorize such payments or such loans. If these or other risks limit our ability to transfer cash generated by our foreign operations to us, our ability to make payments on our debt, including amounts due under the Notes, would be harmed. We may not be able to satisfy our obligations to holders of the Notes upon a change in control. In the event of a change in control, each Note holder may require us to purchase all or a portion of his or her Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the date of purchase. Our ability to repurchase the Notes upon a change in control is limited by the terms of our Credit Facility and our other debt. Upon a change in control, we may be required immediately to repay the outstanding principal, any accrued interest and any other amounts owed by us under the Credit Facility. There can be no assurance that we would be able to repay amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility or obtain necessary consents under the Credit Facility to repurchase the Notes. Any requirement to offer to purchase any outstanding Notes may result in us having to refinance our other outstanding debt, which we may not be able to do. In addition, even if we were able to refinance this debt, the refinancing may not be on terms favorable to us. Our failure to purchase the Notes would be a default under the indenture governing the Notes. The change in control provision in the indenture may not protect Note holders in the event we consummate a highly leveraged transaction, reorganization, restructuring, merger or other similar transaction, unless such transaction constitutes a change in control under the indenture. Such a transaction may not involve a change in voting power or beneficial ownership or, even if it does, may not involve a change of the magnitude required under the definition of change in control triggering event in the indenture to trigger our obligation to repurchase the Notes. Except as described above, the indenture does not contain provisions that permit the holders of the Notes to require us to repurchase or redeem the Notes in an event of a takeover, recapitalization or similar transaction. Federal and state fraudulent transfer laws may permit a court to void the Note guarantees, and, if that occurs, Note holders may not receive any payments on the Notes. Federal and state fraudulent transfer and conveyance statutes may apply to the issuance of the Notes and the incurrence of the guarantees. Under federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer or conveyance laws, which may vary from state to state, the Notes or guarantees could be voided as a fraudulent transfer or conveyance if (i) we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, issued the Notes or incurred the guarantees with the intent of hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors or (ii) we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration in return for either issuing the Notes or incurring the guarantees, and, in the case of (ii) only, one of the following is also true at the time thereof: • we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, were insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the Notes or the incurrence of the guarantees; • the issuance of the Notes or the incurrence of the guarantees left us or any of the guarantors, as applicable, with an unreasonably small amount of capital to carry on the business; 25 Table of Contents • we or any of the guarantors intended to, or believed that we or such guarantor would, incur debts beyond our or such guarantor’s ability to pay as they mature; or • we or any of the guarantors was a defendant in an action for money damages, or had a judgment for money damages docketed against us or such guarantor if, in either case, after final judgment, the judgment is unsatisfied. A court would likely find that we or a guarantor did not receive reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the Notes or such guarantee if we or such guarantor did not substantially benefit directly or indirectly from the issuance of the Notes or the applicable guarantee. As a general matter, value is given for a transfer or an obligation if, in exchange for the transfer or obligation, property is transferred or an antecedent debt is secured or satisfied. We cannot be certain as to the standards a court would use to determine whether or not we or the guarantors were solvent at the relevant time or, regardless of the standard that a court uses, that the issuance of the guarantees would not be further subordinated to our or any of our guarantors’ other debt. Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if, at the time it incurred indebtedness: • the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of all its assets; • the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or • it could not pay its debts as they become due. Each guarantee of the Notes contains a provision designed to limit the subsidiary guarantor’s liability to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the incurrence of obligations under its guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer. However, there is some doubt as to whether this provision is effective to protect such guarantee from being voided under fraudulent transfer law. In a recent Florida bankruptcy case, a similar provision was found to be ineffective to protect the guarantees. If a court were to find that the issuance of the Notes or the incurrence of the guarantee was a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, the court could void the payment obligations under the Notes or such guarantee or further subordinate the Notes or such guarantee to presently existing and future indebtedness of ours or of the applicable guarantor, or require the holders of the Notes to repay any amounts received with respect to such guarantee. In the event of a finding that a fraudulent transfer or conveyance occurred, Note holders may not receive any repayment on the Notes. Further, the voidance of the Notes could result in an event of default with respect to our and our subsidiaries’ other debt that could result in acceleration of such debt. Our Notes are not listed on an exchange and the market price for our Notes may be volatile. Our Notes are not listed on an exchange and we do not know if or when an active trading market for our Notes will develop, if at all. In addition, the market for non-investment-grade debt has been subject to disruptions that have caused substantial volatility in the prices of securities similar to our Notes. The market for our Notes, if any, may be subject to similar disruptions, and any such disruptions may adversely affect their value. Holders may not be able to sell their Notes at a particular time or at a favorable price. 26 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We do not anticipate paying a dividend on our common stock in the foreseeable future, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our Credit Facility and the indenture governing our Notes limit or prohibit the payment of dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, we do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. The lack of dividend payments may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been volatile since our initial public offering and may continue to be volatile. Shares of our common stock may continue to experience substantial price volatility, including significant decreases, in response to a number of events, including: • sales of our common stock by principal stockholders; • our quarterly operating results; • issuances of our common stock; • future announcements concerning our business; • our dividend policy; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock and/or changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • actions of competitors; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in U.S. and foreign government regulation; • general market, economic and political conditions; and • natural disasters, terrorist attacks and acts of war. On December 30, 2011, the last trading day in 2011, the closing price of our common stock was $6.54 as compared with $15.95 as of December 31, 2010. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, the lowest price of our common stock was $6.30 and the highest price was $25.51. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class action lawsuits filed against them. Such lawsuits, should they be filed against us in the future, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain shareholders have significant influence over our business and significant transactions. On the date we emerged from bankruptcy protection, referred to as the Effective Date, by operation of the plan of reorganization, all of our common stock then outstanding, par value $0.01 or old common stock, was cancelled and approximately 82.6% of our new common stock, par value $0.001 was issued to our lenders. Holders of our old common stock were issued approximately 17.4% of the new common stock, along with warrants to purchase up to an additional 10% of the new common stock outstanding on the Effective Date on a fully diluted basis. Also pursuant to the plan of reorganization, a majority of the directors serving on our reconstituted Board of Directors were nominated by certain of our then-lenders, including American Securities LLC (together with its affiliates, “American Securities”) and Carl Marks Strategic Investments, L.P. (together 27 Table of Contents with its affiliates, “Carl Marks”). We also entered into the Director Nomination Agreements with certain of our then-lenders, including American Securities and Carl Marks, pursuant to which the applicable lender(s) may designate one individual for nomination to our Board of Directors, so long as the lender(s) continues to own at least 50% of the new common stock issued to such lender(s) under the plan of reorganization. As of March 2, 2012, American Securities holds 14.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and Mr. Saiontz, a member of our Board of Directors, is a managing director of American Securities LLC. In addition, Carl Marks owns 12.0% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Mr. Wilson, who is a general partner of Carl Marks Management Company, is also a member of our Board of Directors. As a result, Carl Marks and American Securities have a strong ability to influence our business, policies and affairs, and we cannot be certain that their interests will be consistent with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan and issued a dividend of one right for each share of our common stock outstanding. Each right entitles the registered holder to purchase from us one one-thousandth of a preferred share, at a price of $60.00 per one one-thousandth of a preferred share, subject to adjustment. Subject to limited exceptions, in the event a person (which includes affiliates and associates) acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our common stock without prior approval of our Board of Directors, holders of the common stock, other than the acquirer, may exercise their rights to purchase our common stock (or, in certain circumstances, preferred shares or other of our similar securities) having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to take us over without the approval of our Board of Directors, our rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us (or a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock) without first negotiating with our Board of Directors regarding that acquisition. In addition, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 1 million shares of preferred stock (of which 20,000 shares have been designated as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock) and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of our company without further action by the stockholders and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. Further, some provisions of our charter documents, including provisions eliminating the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent and limiting the ability of stockholders to raise matters at a meeting of stockholders without giving advance notice, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management of our company, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. In addition, our charter documents do not permit cumulative voting, which may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board of Directors. Further, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which will prohibit us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, even if such combination is favored by a majority of stockholders, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The application of Section 203 also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 28 Table of Contents 