Risk Factors We are subject to a number of risks due to the nature of our business, including our present exploration state. The following describes the material risks that could affect us. There has been significant economic uncertainty since the second half of 2008 and it has affected the Company’s operations. The recent unprecedented events in global financial markets have had a profound impact on the global economy. Many industries, including the mining industry, are impacted by these market conditions. Some of the key impacts of the current financial market turmoil include contraction in credit markets resulting in a widening of credit risk, devaluations and high volatility in global equity, commodity, foreign exchange and precious metal markets, and a lack of market liquidity. A continued or worsened slowdown in the financial markets or other economic conditions, including but not limited to, consumer spending, employment rates, business conditions, inflation, fuel and energy costs, consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, the state of the financial markets, interest rates, and tax rates may adversely affect the Company’s growth and profitability. Specifically: • the global credit/liquidity crisis could impact the cost and availability of financing and the Company’s overall liquidity; • the volatility of mineral prices would impact the Company’s revenues, profits, losses and cash flow potential; • volatile energy prices, commodity and consumables prices and currency exchange rates would impact the Company’s production costs; and • the devaluation and volatility of global stock markets would impact the valuation of the Company’s equity and other securities. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. As a result, the Company will consider its plans and options carefully in fiscal 2014. No known reserves Our properties are in the exploration stage and are without a known body of mineral reserves. We have no mineral producing properties at this time. Only those mineral deposits that we can economically and legally extract or produce, based on a comprehensive evaluation of cost, grade, recovery and other factors, are considered “reserves”. We have not defined or delineated any proven or probable reserves on any of our properties. Although the mineralized material and mineralized deposit estimates included herein have been carefully prepared by us, or, in some instances have been prepared, reviewed or verified by independent mining experts, these amounts are estimates only and no assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery of uranium, vanadium, copper, gold, base metals and other minerals from mineralized material will in fact be realized or that an identified mineralized deposit will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) reserve. Our planned exploration programs may not result in profitable commercial mining operations Our operations involve exploration, and there is no guarantee that any of our activities will result in commercial production of any mineral deposits. The exploration for and development of mineral deposits involves significant financial and other risks which even a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable deposits. Major expenses are required to locate and establish mineral reserves, to develop metallurgical processes, and to construct mining and processing facilities at a particular site. Our planned exploration programs may not result in a profitable commercial mining operation. Whether a mineral deposit will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors, some of which are: the particular attributes of the deposit, such as quantity and quality of the minerals, 6 costs and efficiency of the recovery methods that can be employed; proximity to infrastructure; financing costs; mineral prices, which are highly cyclical; and government regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals, and environmental protection. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted but could have a material adverse effect upon our operations and/or our ability to receive an adequate return on our invested capital. There is no certainty that our expenditures made towards the search and evaluation of uranium, vanadium, copper, gold, base metals and other minerals result in discoveries of mineral resources, mineral reserves or any other mineral occurrences, or in profitable commercial mining operations. Mining operations generally involve a high degree of risk Our operations are subject to all the hazards and risks normally encountered in the exploration, development and production of uranium and other minerals, including environmental pollution, accidents or spills, industrial accidents, labor disputes, changes in the regulatory environment, natural phenomena, unusual and unexpected geologic formations, seismic activity, rock bursts, cave-ins, flooding and other conditions involved in the drilling and removal of material, any of which could result in damage to, or destruction of, mines and other producing facilities, damage to life or property, environmental damage, delays in or cessation of production, exploration or development, monetary losses and cost increases which could make us uncompetitive, and could lead to possible legal liability. Although adequate precautions to minimize risk will be taken, mining operations are subject to hazards such as equipment failure or failure of retaining dams around tailings disposal areas which may result in environmental pollution and consequent liability. In addition, due to the radioactive nature of the materials handled in uranium mining, applicable regulatory requirements result in additional costs that must be incurred. Our resource estimates may not be reliable There is no certainty that any of our mineral resources will be economically mineable. Until a deposit is actually mined and processed the quantity of mineral resources and grades must be considered as estimates only. Valid estimates made at a given time may significantly change when new information becomes available. In addition, the quantity of mineral resources may vary depending on, among other things, metal prices. Any material change in quantity of mineral resources, grade or stripping ratio may affect the economic viability of our properties or any project we undertake. In addition, there can be no assurance that mineral or other metal recoveries in small scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in a larger scale test under on-site conditions or during production. Fluctuations in prices of uranium, vanadium, copper, gold, base metals and other minerals, results of drilling, metallurgical testing and production and the evaluation of studies, reports and plans subsequent to the date of any estimate may require revision of such estimate. Any material reductions in estimates of mineral resources could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on a limited number of properties Our only properties of interest are currently the Central Mineral Belt properties in Labrador, and the Bootheel property in Wyoming, USA. As a result, unless we acquire additional property interests, any adverse developments affecting these properties could have a material adverse effect upon our business and would materially and adversely affect our potential mineral resource production, profitability, financial performance and results of operations. Competition from other energy sources and public acceptance of nuclear energy may affect the demand for uranium Nuclear energy competes with other sources of energy, including oil, natural gas, coal and hydro-electricity. These other energy sources are to some extent interchangeable with nuclear energy, particularly over the longer term. Lower prices of oil, natural gas, coal and hydro-electricity may result in lower demand for uranium concentrate and uranium conversion services. Furthermore, the growth of the uranium and nuclear power industry beyond its current level will depend upon continued and increased acceptance of nuclear technology as a means of generating electricity. Because of unique political, technological and environmental factors that affect the nuclear industry, the 7 industry is subject to public opinion risks which could have an adverse impact on the demand for nuclear power and increase the regulation of the nuclear power industry. We face strong competition for the acquisition of mining properties The mining industry is competitive in all of its phases. We face strong competition from other mining companies in connection with the acquisition of properties producing, or capable of producing, uranium and precious metals. Many of these companies have greater financial resources, operational experience and technical capabilities than we do. As a result of this competition, we may be unable to maintain or acquire attractive mining properties on terms we consider acceptable, if at all. Consequently, our revenues, operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We do not have a history of mineral production or operations There is no assurance that commercial quantities of minerals will be discovered at our current properties or any future properties, nor is there any assurance that our exploration programs thereon will yield any positive results. Even if commercial quantities of minerals are discovered, there can be no assurance that any of our properties will ever be brought to a stage where mineral resources can profitably be produced thereon. Factors which may limit our ability to produce mineral resources from our properties include, but are not limited to, the price of the mineral resources which are being explored for, availability of additional capital and financing and the nature of any mineral deposits. We do not have an extensive operating history and there can be no assurance of our ability to operate our projects profitably in the future. Our insurance will not cover all the potential risks associated with our operations Our business is subject to a number of risks and hazards generally, including adverse environmental conditions, industrial accidents, labor disputes, unusual or unexpected geological conditions, ground or slope failures, cave-ins, changes in the regulatory environment and natural phenomena such as inclement weather conditions, floods and earthquakes. Such occurrences could result in damage to mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage to our properties or other properties, delays in mining, monetary losses and possible legal liability. Our insurance will not cover all the potential risks associated with a mining company’s operations. We may also be unable to maintain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums. Insurance coverage may not be available or may not be adequate to cover any resulting liability. Moreover, there are risks against which we cannot insure or against which we may elect not to insure. Insurance against risks such as environmental pollution or other hazards as a result of exploration and production is not generally available to us or to other companies in the uranium mining industry. We might also become subject to liability for pollution or other hazards which we may not be insured against or which we may elect not to insure against because of premium costs or other reasons. Losses from these events may cause substantial delays and require us to incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operations, competitive position and potentially our financial viability. Our operations are subject to environmental regulation All phases of our operations are subject to environmental regulation in the various jurisdictions in which we operate or may operate in the future. These regulations mandate, among other things, the maintenance of air and water quality standards and land reclamation. They also set forth limitations on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects, and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. There is no assurance that future changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect our operations. Environmental hazards may exist on the properties on which we hold interests 8 which are unknown to us at present and which have been caused by previous or existing owners or operators of the properties. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations or in the exploration or development of mineral properties may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Our operations are dependent on adequate infrastructure Mining, processing, development and exploration activities depend, to one degree or another, on adequate infrastructure. Reliable roads, bridges, power sources and water supply are important determinants, which affect capital and operating costs. Unusual or infrequent weather phenomena, sabotage, government or other interference in the maintenance or provision of such infrastructure could adversely affect our operations, financial condition and results of operations. Our properties may be subject to undetected title defects It is possible there may still be undetected title defects affecting our properties. Title insurance generally is not available, and our ability to ensure that we have obtained secure claim to individual mineral properties or mining concessions may be severely constrained. Furthermore, we have not conducted surveys of the claims in which we hold interests and, therefore, the precise area and location of such claims may be in doubt. Accordingly, our properties may be subject to prior unregistered liens, agreements, transfers or claims, and title may be affected by, among other things, undetected defects which could have a material adverse impact on our operations. In addition, we may be unable to operate our properties as permitted or to enforce our rights with respect to our properties. We may be subject to additional costs for land reclamation It is difficult to determine the exact amounts which will be required to complete all land reclamation activities in connection with our properties. Reclamation bonds and other forms of financial assurance represent only a portion of the total amount of money that will be spent on reclamation activities over the life of a mine. Accordingly, it may be necessary to revise planned expenditures and operating plans in order to fund reclamation activities. Such costs may have a material adverse impact upon our financial condition and results of operations. The inability to obtain necessary permits would adversely affect our ability to operate our business We may not receive the necessary permits or receive them on acceptable terms, if at all, in order to conduct further exploration and to develop our properties. The failure to obtain such permits, or delays in obtaining such permits, could adversely affect our operations. Government approvals, approval of aboriginal people and permits are currently and may in the future be required in connection with our operations. To the extent such approvals are required and not obtained; we may be curtailed or prohibited from continuing our mining operations or from proceeding with planned exploration or development of mineral properties. We will require additional capital for our operations The development and exploration of our properties will require substantial additional financing. Failure to obtain sufficient financing may result in the delay or indefinite postponement of exploration, development or production on our properties or even a loss of property interest. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available when needed or that, if available, the terms of financing such capital will be acceptable to us. In addition, any future financing may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. 9 Future production from our mining properties, if any, is dependent upon the prices of uranium, vanadium, copper, gold, base metals and other minerals being adequate to make these properties economically viable Mineral and base metals prices received, if any, could be such that our properties cannot be mined at a profit. The price of our common shares, and our financial results and exploration, development and mining activities may in the future be significantly and adversely affected by declines in the price of uranium, vanadium, copper, gold, base metals and other minerals. The price of uranium, vanadium, copper, gold, base metals and other minerals fluctuates widely and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control such as the sale or purchase of commodities by various central banks and financial institutions, interest rates, exchange rates, inflation or deflation, fluctuation in the value of the United States dollar and foreign currencies, global and regional supply and demand, the political and economic conditions and production costs of major mineral-producing countries throughout the world, and the cost of substitutes, inventory levels and carrying charges. With respect to uranium, such factors include the demand for nuclear power, political and economic conditions in uranium producing and consuming countries, uranium supply from secondary sources, uranium production levels and costs of production. Future serious price declines in the market value of uranium, vanadium, copper, gold, base metals and other minerals could cause development of and commercial production from our properties to be impracticable. Depending on the price of uranium, vanadium, copper, gold, base metals and other minerals, cash flow from mining operations may not be sufficient and we could be forced to discontinue production and may lose our interest in, or may be forced to sell, some of our properties. Future production from our mining properties, if any, is dependent upon the prices of uranium, vanadium, copper, gold, base metals and other minerals being adequate to make these properties economically viable. In addition to adversely affecting our reserve estimates, if any, and our financial condition, declining commodity prices can impact operations by requiring a reassessment of the feasibility of a particular project. Such a reassessment may be the result of a management decision or may be required under financing arrangements related to a particular project. Even if a project is ultimately determined to be economically viable, the need to conduct such a reassessment may cause substantial delays or may interrupt operations until the reassessment can be completed. Exchange rate fluctuations may effectively increase our costs of exploration and production Exchange rate fluctuations may affect the costs that we incur in our operations. Uranium, vanadium, copper, gold, base metals and other minerals are generally sold in U.S. dollars and our costs are incurred principally in Canadian dollars. We also maintain a mineral exploration project in the United States that require payments to be made in U.S. dollars. The appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies against the U.S. dollar can increase the cost of exploration and production in U.S. dollar terms, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to extensive governmental regulation that may adversely affect our operating costs Our mining, processing, development and mineral exploration activities are subject to various laws governing prospecting, development, production, taxes, labor standards and occupational health, mine safety, toxic substances, land use, water use, land claims of local people, and other matters. Although our exploration and development activities are currently carried out in accordance with all applicable rules and regulations, new rules and regulations may be enacted or existing rules and regulations may be applied in a manner which could limit or curtail production or development. Amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities of mining and milling or more stringent implementation thereof could have a substantial adverse impact on our operations. Worldwide demand for uranium is directly tied to the demand for energy produced by the nuclear electric industry, which is also subject to extensive government regulations and policies. Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of mining and exploration companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on our operations and cause increases in exploration expenses, capital expenditures or production costs, or reduction in levels of production at producing properties, or require abandonment or delays in development of new mining properties. 10 The market price of our common shares may experience substantial volatility In recent years, the securities markets in the United States and Canada have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many mineral exploration companies have experienced wide fluctuations in price which have not necessarily been related to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. The price of our common shares is also likely to be significantly affected by short-term changes in prices of uranium, vanadium, copper, gold, base metals and other minerals, or in our financial condition or results of operations as reflected in our quarterly earnings reports. Other factors unrelated to our performance that may have an effect on the price of our common shares include the following: the extent of analytical coverage available to investors concerning our business may be limited if investment banks with research capabilities do not follow our securities; lessening in trading volume and general market interest in our securities may affect an investor’s ability to trade significant numbers of our common shares; the size of our public float may limit the ability of some institutions to invest in our securities; and a substantial decline in the price of our common shares that persists for a significant period of time could cause our securities to be delisted from such exchange, further reducing market liquidity. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future No dividends on our common shares have been paid to date as we have no earnings. We currently plan to retain all future earnings and other cash resources, if any, for the future operation and development of our business. Payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors after taking into account many factors, including our operating results, financial condition, and current and anticipated cash needs. Future sales of common shares by existing shareholders could adversely affect the trading price of our common shares Sales of a large number of our common shares in the public markets, or the potential for such sales, could decrease the trading price of the common shares and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of common shares. We are dependent upon the services of our key executives We are dependent upon the services of key executives, including our directors and a small number of highly skilled and experienced executives and personnel. Due to our relatively small size, the unanticipated and/or unplanned loss of our Chief Executive Officer or our Chairman or our inability to attract and retain additional highly-skilled employees may adversely affect our future operations. Our directors and officers have certain conflicts of interest Certain of our directors and officers also serve as directors and/or officers of other companies involved in natural resource exploration and development and, consequently, there exists the possibility for such directors and officers to be in a position of conflict. We have no positive cash flow and no recent history of earnings and we are dependent upon public and private contributions of equity to obtain capital in order to sustain our operations None of our properties have advanced to the commercial production stage and we have no history of earnings or positive cash flow from operations. Our cumulative loss, as of the year ended April 30, 2014 determined in accordance with IFRS is approximately $107 million. We do not know if we will ever generate material revenue from mining operations or if we will ever achieve self-sustaining commercial mining operations. Historically, the only source of funds available to us has been through the sale of our equity securities. Any future additional equity financing would cause dilution to current shareholders. 11 Dilution through employee, director and consultant stock options and warrants could adversely affect our shareholders by decreasing shareholder value Because our success is highly dependent upon our employees, we have granted to some or all of our key employees, directors and consultants options to purchase common shares as non-cash incentives. In addition we have also issued share purchase units and warrants to investors and brokers in connection with equity financings. To the extent that significant numbers of such options, warrants and share purchase units may be granted and exercised, the interests of our other shareholders may be diluted. As of August 18, 2014 we had 274,588 purchase options, and no share purchase warrants outstanding. If all of these securities were exercised, the number of common shares issued and outstanding would increase from 6,578,035 to 6,852,623. This represents an increase of 4.18% in the number of shares issued and outstanding and would result in some dilution to current shareholders. The Company is subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, and the risks associated with penny stock classification could affect the marketability of our equity securities and shareholders could find it difficult to sell their common shares Given that the trading price of our common shares on OTC Market Group’s OTCQB Marketplace is less than US $5.00 per share, our common stock is subject to the SEC’s “penny stock” rules as defined in Rule 3a51-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”). The SEC has adopted the penny stock rules to regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than US $5.00, other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange. Transaction costs associated with purchases and sales of penny stocks are likely to be higher than those for other securities. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from such rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for our equity securities in the United States and shareholders may find it more difficult to sell their shares. U.S. investors may not be able to enforce their civil liabilities against us or our directors, controlling persons and officers It may be difficult to bring and enforce suits against us. We are incorporated in the province of British Columbia under the Business Corporations Act (British Columbia). The majority of our directors and officers are residents of Canada, and all or substantial portions of their assets are located outside of the United States, predominately in Canada. As a result, it may be difficult for U.S. holders of our common shares to effect service of process on these persons within the United States or to realize in the United States upon judgments rendered against them. In addition, a shareholder should not assume that the courts of Canada (i) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States, or (ii) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or such persons predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States. 12 However, U.S. laws would generally be enforced by a Canadian court provided that those laws are not contrary to Canadian public policy, are not foreign penal laws or laws that deal with taxation or the taking of property by a foreign government and provided that they are in compliance with applicable Canadian legislation regarding the limitation of actions. Also, a Canadian court would generally recognize a judgment obtained in a U.S. Court except, for example, where: a) the U.S. court that rendered the judgment had no jurisdiction according to applicable Canadian law; b) the judgment was subject to ordinary remedy (appeal, judicial review and any other judicial proceeding which renders the judgment not final, conclusive or enforceable under the laws of the applicable state) or not final, conclusive or enforceable under the laws of the applicable state; c) the judgment was obtained by fraud or in any manner contrary to natural justice or rendered in contravention of fundamental principles of procedure; or d) a dispute between the same parties, based on the same subject matter has given rise to a judgment rendered in a Canadian court or has been decided in a third country and the judgment meets the necessary conditions for recognition in a Canadian court. As a "foreign private issuer”, we are exempt from the Section 14 proxy rules and Section 16 reporting rules under the Exchange Act which may result in shareholders having less complete and timely data The submission of proxy and annual shareholder meeting information (prepared to Canadian standards) on Form 6-K may result in shareholders having less complete and timely data than if we were subject to the SEC’s domestic issuer proxy rules under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. The exemption from Section 16 rules under the Exchange Act that require the reporting of acquisitions and disposition of our equity securities by our officers, directors and greater than 10% shareholders also may result in shareholders having less data. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”), our shareholders may be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. We have not made a determination as to whether we are considered a PFIC as such term is defined in the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”), for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the current tax year and any prior tax years. A non-U.S. corporation generally will be considered a PFIC of any tax year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. In general, if we are or become a PFIC, any gain recognized on the sale of our common stock and any “excess distributions” (as specifically defined in the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986) paid on the common stock must be ratably allocated to each day in a U.S. taxpayer’s holding period for the securities. The amount of any such gain or excess distribution allocated to prior years of such U.S. taxpayer’s holding period for the common stock generally will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the highest tax applicable to ordinary income in each such prior year, and the U.S. taxpayer will be required to pay interest on the resulting tax liability for each such prior year, calculated as if such tax liability had been due in each such prior year. Litigation Due to the nature of our business, we may become subject to regulatory investigations, claims, lawsuits and other proceedings in the ordinary course of its business. The results of these legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty due to the uncertainty inherent in litigation, including the effects of discovery of new evidence or advancement of new legal theories, the difficulty of predicting decisions of judges and juries and the possibility that decisions may be reversed on appeal. There can be no assurances that these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business. 13 