ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may occasionally make forward-looking statements and estimates such as forecasts and projections of our future performance or statements of our plans and objectives. These forward-looking statements may be contained in, among other things, filings with the SEC, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, press releases made by us and in oral statements made by our officers. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those contained in such forward-looking statements include, among other things, the risks described below. Risks Relating to our Potential Bankruptcy and Restructuring We would be subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy proceedings if we file a prepackaged plan for reorganization under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. For the duration of any chapter 11 proceedings, our operations would be subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy, which include, among other things: • the relationships between us and our customers, employees, vendors, strategic partners and others may be negatively affected by the chapter 11 proceedings, including risks that our customers will be less likely to purchase our products and services, that our employees will seek out other opportunities or lack proper motivation to fulfill their commitments and that vendors and strategic partners could terminate their relationships with us or require financial assurances or enhanced performance to continue their business relationships with us, which may be unduly burdensome on our business and operations; • the actions and decisions of our creditors and other parties in interest in our chapter 11 proceedings may be inconsistent with our plans; • objections to or limitations on our ability to obtain bankruptcy court approval with respect to motions in the chapter 11 proceedings that we may seek from time to time or potential adverse decisions by the bankruptcy court with respect to such motions; • objections to or limitations on our ability to reject contracts or leases that are burdensome or uneconomical; • our ability to obtain and maintain commercially reasonable terms with vendors, strategic partners and service providers; 19 Table of Contents • our ability to obtain and maintain contracts that are critical to our operations; • our ability to retain and motivate our executive officers and other key employees; and • our ability to maintain adequate financing and cash on hand and to generate sufficient cash from operations. These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways. For example, negative events or publicity associated with chapter 11 proceedings could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, as well as with employees, which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition, particularly if the chapter 11 proceedings are protracted. Also, transactions outside the ordinary course of business are generally subject to the prior approval of the bankruptcy court, which may limit our ability to respond in a timely manner to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. Parties in interest could propose and seek confirmation of their own plan or plans of reorganization. Any such third party plan or plans could disrupt our business, adversely affect our relationships with customers, vendors, strategic partners and employees, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with chapter 11 proceedings, the ultimate impact that the events occurring during these proceedings would have on our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be accurately predicted or quantified. Our proposed Plan provides, among other things, for a substantial dilution of existing equity in the Company. We believe that the value of our common stock is highly speculative. Accordingly, extreme caution should be exercised with respect to existing and future investments in any of these securities. The Plan may not be confirmed. Assuming we file for chapter 11, confirmation of the Plan is subject to certain conditions and requirements of the Bankruptcy Code. Although we believe that the Plan would satisfy all requirements necessary for confirmation under the Bankruptcy Code, there can be no assurance that the bankruptcy court would reach the same conclusion. For example, the bankruptcy court may decide that the solicitation of votes on the Plan failed to meet the requirements of section 1126(b) of the Bankruptcy Code. Moreover, there can be no assurance that modifications of the Plan will not be required for confirmation or that such modifications would not necessitate the resolicitation of votes. In the event that the bankruptcy court refuses to confirm the Plan, we may be required to seek an alternative restructuring of our obligations to our creditors and equity holders and delays will ensue as we seek relief under the Bankruptcy Code without the benefit of the Plan. There can be no assurance that the terms of any such alternative restructuring would be similar, or as favorable, to our creditors and equity holders as those proposed in the Plan. Our restructuring efforts may be unsuccessful regardless of whether the Plan is confirmed. The Plan is designed to improve our consolidated balance sheet and capital structure by decreasing our outstanding consolidated debt and significantly reducing our annual interest expense. However, these efforts may not be sufficient to enable us to improve our operating results. We will continue to be highly leveraged after the expected restructuring, and are likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. Our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations following a reorganization will depend on our ability to achieve our financial forecasts. These forecasts are based on certain assumptions regarding demand for paper products, the level of paper production and inventories, the number of mills producing paper and the financial health and access to capital of the paper producers. Should these assumptions prove to be incorrect, our actual financial forecasts may vary significantly from what we projected, jeopardizing our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations following a restructuring. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve our objectives with respect to the business restructuring strategy, regardless of whether the Plan is confirmed. 20 Table of Contents Any chapter 11 proceeding may take longer than expected and any such delay may negatively impact our restructuring efforts. The bankruptcy court may not act on the timetable we have projected and any chapter 11 proceeding may take significantly longer than we expect. In addition, we cannot assure that the chapter 11 proceeding will not unduly disrupt our business. It is impossible to predict with certainty the amount of time needed in bankruptcy. Moreover, time limitations exist for which we have an exclusive right to file a plan of reorganization before other parties in interest can propose and file their own plan. A lengthy chapter 11 case would also involve additional expenses and divert the attention of management from operation of our businesses, as well as create concerns for employees, vendors, and customers. The disruption that a chapter 11 case would inflict upon our business would increase with the length of time it takes to complete the cases and the severity of that disruption would depend upon the attractiveness and feasibility of the Plan from the perspective of the constituent parties, including essential vendors, employees, and customers. If we are unable to obtain confirmation of the Plan on a timely basis because of a challenge to the Plan or a failure to satisfy the conditions to the effectiveness of the Plan, we may be forced to operate in bankruptcy for an extended period while trying to develop a different plan of reorganization that can be confirmed. In addition, although we believe that the Effective Date of a Plan is likely to occur very shortly after the date that the Plan is confirmed, there can be no assurance as to such timing. Moreover, if the conditions precedent to the Effective Date of the Plan have not occurred or been duly waived within 30 days after the Plan has been confirmed, the order confirming the Plan will be of no further force or effect and the Plan will be deemed withdrawn. A protracted bankruptcy case would increase both the probability and the magnitude of the adverse effects described above. Our chapter 11 filing may be delayed or we may not proceed with any chapter 11 filing. Although we have obtained sufficient votes to obtain confirmation of the Plan and may file for chapter 11 with the Plan on or before March 31, 2010, there can be no assurance that a chapter 11 filing will occur on such timetable or at all. The waivers to our credit facility will expire on April 1, 2010, except with respect to those of our lenders that agreed to an additional waiver and forbearance of our credit facility until April 30, 2010 in connection with the solicitation of votes on the Plan, and no additional waivers may be available. Absent these waivers, our failure to meet the covenants in our credit facility would constitute an event of default. In addition, we anticipate that that we will have insufficient cash to both make our required quarterly payments under the facility, including the payment due on March 31, 2010, and continue to operate our business. Thus, absent a waiver, our failure to pay the March 31, 2010 scheduled quarterly payment would constitute an additional event of default under the credit facility. If a default were to occur, our lenders would have the right to demand immediate repayment of obligations under the credit facility. Any such acceleration of our obligations would likely cause other lenders and contractual counterparties to terminate and/or to accelerate our obligations under other financing and credit instruments and agreements. Should the lenders and/or other counterparties demand immediate repayment of all of our obligations, we expect that we would not be able to pay such obligations. In such event, we and our subsidiaries may be forced to commence a chapter 11 case. Even if the lenders do not demand immediate repayment, if the lenders have the right to make such a demand due to an event of default under our credit agreement, we may be obligated to initiate insolvency proceedings in some non-U.S jurisdictions. In the event that we were to obtain additional waivers of the financial covenants and payment obligations under our credit facility on or before March 31, 2010, our chapter 11 filing may be delayed until after March 31, 2010. In addition, we may determine that, based on the number of votes received to accept the Plan, there is sufficient lender support to pursue an out-of-court restructuring of our debt, in which case we may not file for chapter 11. In the event that we choose to pursue a restructuring outside of chapter 11, we expect that the restructuring would occur under similar economic terms as provided in the Plan. 21 Table of Contents If we pursue an out-of court restructuring, we will be subject to additional risks and uncertainties. An out-of-court restructuring will subject us to additional risks and uncertainties. In order to successfully consummate an out-of-court restructuring, 100% approval of, or arrangements with, our lenders and swap termination counterparties would be required, and negotiations with these creditors over the terms of an out-of-court restructuring could delay the completion of the restructuring. If an out-of-court restructuring is not completed by April 12, 2010, unless extended, the date when our DIP Facility commitment expires, there is a risk that we would have insufficient access to working capital if the out-of-court restructuring negotiations were to be unsuccessful and we were to seek restructuring in bankruptcy. In that event, we may find it necessary to discontinue our operations. In addition, while we expect that an out-of-court restructuring would be on similar economic terms as provided in the Plan, and that such restructuring would allow us to reduce our debt and improve our operating results, there can be no assurance that these objectives would be successful. As with a chapter 11 restructuring pursuant to the Plan, we would continue to be highly leveraged after any out-of-court restructuring, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations following an out-of-court reorganization would depend on our ability to achieve our financial forecasts. If we are unable to achieve our forecasts, or if our forecasts are based on assumptions that prove incorrect, we may be unable to achieve the expected benefits of an out-of-court restructuring. We may be unsuccessful in obtaining first day orders to authorize payment in the ordinary course of business following a chapter 11 filing. There can be no guarantee that we will be successful in obtaining the necessary approvals of the bankruptcy court to authorize our satisfaction of certain prepetition obligations in the ordinary course of business. As a result, we may be unable to make certain prepetition payments to customers, vendors, employees, and other key creditors, which, in turn, may adversely affect our businesses. We may be unsuccessful in obtaining working capital financing. On or shortly after the date of a chapter 11 filing, we intend to seek authorization from the bankruptcy court to enter into the DIP Facility. The DIP Facility is intended to fund our working capital needs during the pendency of the chapter 11 proceedings. Although the agent under the DIP Facility has executed a commitment letter regarding the DIP Facility, there can be no assurances that the bankruptcy court would approve the DIP Facility on the terms requested by us. Additionally, if chapter 11 proceedings take longer than expected to conclude, we may exhaust our financing under the DIP Facility. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing from our existing lenders or otherwise. In either case, the liquidity necessary for the orderly functioning of our business may be materially impaired. In addition, even if we enter into the DIP Facility on substantially the terms set forth in the commitment letter, our inability to satisfy the financial covenants or conditions to funding included in the DIP Facility could restrict our ability to access maximum amounts that may be available under the DIP Facility. These uncertainties with respect to the DIP Facility may adversely affect our successful reorganization and our emergence from chapter 11. The DIP Facility commitment expires on April 12, 2010, unless extended. Accordingly, in order to take advantage of the DIP Facility, it is important that we file for chapter 11 protection in time to obtain court approval of the DIP facility prior to the expiration of the commitment. There is no assurance that we will be able to close the DIP Facility and, if we do not, we are likely to have insufficient funds to continue our current operations while in bankruptcy. Furthermore, should we decide to pursue an out-of-court restructuring, we intend to complete the restructuring prior to the expiration of the DIP Facility commitment. If an out-of-court restructuring is not completed by the expiration of the DIP Facility commitment, we are at risk that we would have insufficient funds to continue our current operations in bankruptcy, should we later file for chapter 11 protection. 22 Table of Contents If we proceed with the chapter 11 filing, we intend to consummate the Plan and to obtain post-chapter 11 working capital financing through projected operating cash flow and the Proposed Exit Facility described above in “Business—Potential Chapter 11 Reorganization—Proposed Exit Facility.” However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into the Proposed Exit Facility or that the assumptions underlying our cash flow projections, including the pace and level of recovery in the paper industry, will be realized. Additionally, if we require working capital and trade financing greater than that provided by such sources, we may be required to, among other things, (a) obtain other sources of financing or (b) curtail our operations or (c) sell certain of our assets. No assurance can be given, however, that any additional financing will be available, if at all, on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. Our existing common stock will be substantially diluted in any reorganization. If the Plan is confirmed, approximately 82.6% of our outstanding common stock will be held by our lenders, and existing holders of our common stock will hold, in the aggregate, approximately 17.4% of our outstanding common stock, with the ability to increase this ownership to approximately 27.4% by exercising warrants to purchase additional shares of common stock. There can be no assurance that the market price of our common stock will exceed the exercise price of the warrants at any time during the period in which the warrants are exercisable. If the market price of our common stock does not exceed the exercise price of the warrants, it may not be economically viable for our shareholders to exercise the warrants, in which case the warrants will have no value. In the event that we choose to pursue a restructuring outside of chapter 11, we expect that the economic terms of the restructuring would be similar to those contemplated by the Plan. As a result, our lenders would likely own substantially more than a majority of our outstanding equity in any in-court or out-of-court restructuring. Our existing stockholders will have little or no control or influence on stockholder matters in any reorganization if the Plan is confirmed. For example, the Plan provides that our Board of Directors will be reconstituted, and initially will consist of seven directors as follows: (i) our Chief Executive Officer, (ii) one director nominated by our current Board of Directors, and (iii) five directors nominated by our lenders. In addition, our lenders may, through contractual provisions and/or the percentage of voting securities owned, be in a position to exert strong influence over our business, policies and affairs, while our existing stockholders may have little influence. There can be no assurance that the interests of any new stockholders will align with the interests of our existing stockholders. We may be forced to liquidate under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. If no chapter 11 plan can be confirmed, or if the bankruptcy court otherwise finds that it would be in the best interest of our creditors, our chapter 11 cases may be converted to cases under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, in which a trustee would be elected or appointed to liquidate our assets for distribution in accordance with the priorities established by the Bankruptcy Code. We believe that liquidation under chapter 7 would result in smaller distributions being made to equity security holders and creditors than those provided for in the Plan because (a) the likelihood that our assets would have to be sold or otherwise disposed of in a less orderly fashion, (b) additional administrative expenses attendant to the appointment of a trustee and the trustee’s employment of attorneys and other professionals, and (c) additional expenses and claims, some of which would be entitled to priority under the Bankruptcy Code, which would be generated during the liquidation, and from the rejection of leases and other executory contracts in connection with a cessation of our operations. Risks Relating to our Business and the Industry A sustained downturn in the paper industry, compounded by uncertainty in global economic conditions, could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Historically, demand for our products has been driven primarily by the volume of paper produced on a worldwide basis. Generally, and over time, we expect growth in paper production to be greater in Asia, South America and Eastern Europe than in the more mature North American and Western European regions where demand may potentially decline. 23 Table of Contents The profitability of paper producers has historically been highly cyclical due to wide swings in the price of paper, driven to a high degree by the oversupply of paper during periods when paper producers have more aggregate capacity than the market requires. A sustained downturn in the paper industry, either globally or in a particular region, can cause paper manufacturers to reduce production or cease operations, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Since 2000, paper producers have taken actions that seek to structurally improve the balance between the supply of and demand for paper. As part of these efforts, they have permanently shut down many paper-making machines or entire manufacturing facilities. Papermakers continue to experience low levels of profitability, and we believe that further consolidation among papermakers, reducing the number of paper producers, and shutdowns of paper-making machines or facilities will occur in Europe and North America, until there is a better balance between supply and demand for paper and the profit levels of paper producers improve. This rebalancing has been accelerated during the recent global economic recession. Over a number of years, consumption growth of paper, particularly in South America and Asia, is expected to drive an increase in the global production rates required to maintain balance between supply and demand. It is highly likely, however, that a consumption slow-down and related effect on global paper production will continue in the near term, exacerbated by the global economic recession. Also affecting machine curtailments are structural productivity gains from improved products that we and our competitors supply. Global paper production growth that does occur would be moderated by the level of industry consolidation and paper-machine shutdown activity that is a continuing underlying trend in North America and Western Europe. We also believe that, in addition to industry consolidation and paper machine shutdown activity in North America and Western Europe, the trend towards new paper machine designs which have fewer rolls and market recognition of extended life of our roll cover products has been and will continue to negatively impact demand for these products and that the volume potential for the roll covers business will slowly diminish. Additionally, we are seeing a trend that paper producers are placing an increasing emphasis on maintenance cost reduction and, as a result, are extending the life of roll covers through additional maintenance cycles before replacing them. We anticipate that pricing pressure for our products will continue with the consolidation among paper producers and as the shift of paper production growth in Asia develops. In response to this pricing pressure, we expect to continue to develop new products and expand our value added selling approach as part of our strategy to differentiate our products, while at the same time remaining focused on cost reduction and efficiency programs. The negative paper industry trends described above are likely to continue. We believe that in the current economic environment, the paper industry will experience reduced demand, increased emphasis on cost reduction and sustained paper-machine shutdown activity than would have been the case in the absence of the economic recession. Although the global financial recession has somewhat abated, the availability of credit remains tight, which could make it more difficult for our customers to finance their business activities or pay their debts. Thus, the effects of the current economic environment on the paper industry could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to reorganize our operations in response to changing conditions in the paper industry, and such actions may require significant expenditures and may not be successful. In the past several years, we have undertaken various operational restructuring measures in response to changing market conditions in the paper industry triggered by the decline in paper prices that began in 2001. For example, between January 1, 2003 and December 31, 2009, we incurred costs of approximately $76 million in connection with our cost reduction programs including the closure of twelve manufacturing facilities worldwide. In connection with any future plant closures, delays or failures in the transition of production from a closed facility to our other facilities could also adversely affect our financial performance. We may engage in additional cost reduction programs in the future. We may not recoup the costs of programs we have already initiated, or other programs we may in the future decide to engage in, the costs of which may be significant. In addition, our profitability may decline if our restructuring efforts do not sufficiently reduce our future costs while at the same time positioning us to maintain or increase our sales. We also expect to implement cost reduction programs in 2010 and are estimating restructuring expenses of approximately $13 million during 2010, primarily related to streamlining our operating structure in North America and Europe. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Cost Reduction Programs”. 24 Table of Contents Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and compliance with our debt covenants. Our foreign operations expose us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and currency devaluations. We report our financial results in U.S. Dollars, but a substantial portion of our sales, expenses and debt are denominated in Euros and other currencies. As a result, changes in the relative values of U.S. Dollars, Euros and other currencies will affect our levels of sales and profitability. A decrease in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to the value of the Euro and these other currencies will affect our financial results since the translation of a certain number of Euros or units of such other currencies into U.S. Dollars for financial reporting purposes will represent more U.S. Dollars. We would expect an opposite effect in a period in which the value of the U.S. Dollar increases. In addition, in the case of sales to customers in certain locations, our sales are denominated in U.S. Dollars but all or a substantial portion of our associated costs are denominated in a different currency. As a result, changes in the relative values of U.S. Dollars, Euros and any such other currency will affect our profitability. Although in certain circumstances we attempt to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, our hedging strategies may not be effective. Due to reduced credit limits at some of our banks, we have entered into fewer foreign currency hedging arrangements and may not be able to enter into as many hedging arrangements in the future. Additionally, on December 31, 2009 we terminated with the counterparties all of our outstanding interest rate swap liabilities of $20.0 million and converted them into notes payable to such counterparties. As a result of the termination of the interest rate swaps, the interest rate on the term loan portion of the credit facility is no longer effectively fixed through December 31, 2010, the original term of the swaps. As a result of these events, our financial statements are more exposed to the effects of currency and interest rate fluctuations, both favorable and unfavorable, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. In addition, our credit facility currently contains, and is expected to continue to contain after our impending reorganization, financial covenants that require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. See “Business—Chapter 11 Reorganization” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Credit Facility”. Our ability to comply with these covenants will depend in part upon our reported financial results, which as indicated above are directly affected by currency fluctuations. For example, in the event the value of the U.S. Dollar increases relative to the Euro and other currencies in which we conduct business (and ignoring any other changes affecting our financial performance), the amount of our Adjusted EBITDA will decline. Since each of the financial ratio covenants in our credit facility is calculated by reference to the amount of our Adjusted EBITDA, currency fluctuations alone could lower the amount of our Adjusted EBITDA and therefore affect our ability to remain in compliance with our financial ratio covenants. While we have certain indebtedness denominated in foreign currencies, to reduce the volatility of these measurements to the U.S dollar/Euro relationship, Amendment 5 to our credit facility provides that for the purposes of computing debt, which is a part of the calculation of the leverage ratio, indebtedness which is payable in Canadian Dollars or Euros shall be converted into Dollars using the average exchange rate for the period of four consecutive Fiscal Quarters ended March 31, 2008. Accordingly, if the value of the U.S. Dollar increases relative to the Euro or the Canadian Dollar and our Adjusted EBITDA declines as a result of this currency effect, there would not be a corresponding decrease in the amount of our debt for purposes of the maximum leverage ratio covenant calculation. For additional information about the risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Foreign Exchange”. Increased price competition in our industry could adversely affect our gross margins and net sales. Historically, we and our competitors have been able to sell clothing and roll covers products and services at favorable prices that reflect the value they deliver to customers. This favorable pricing has been particularly available for our more technologically advanced products, such as forming fabrics, press felts and roll covers. In recent years, the financial health of our customers and continued pricing pressure from our competitors required us to reduce prices in some cases, and eliminate or decrease the size of proposed price increases in other cases, 25 Table of Contents resulting in price decreases in both of our business segments. Further pricing pressure from our competitors may require further price decreases or make us unable to effect planned price increases and, thereby, adversely affect our profitability. Our industry is competitive and our future success will depend on our ability to effectively develop and market competitive products. The paper-making consumables industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors are larger than us, have greater financial and other resources and are well-established as suppliers to the markets we serve. In addition, some of our competitors also manufacture paper-making machines and have the ability to initially package sales of their clothing and roll cover products with the sale of their machines and/or to tie the warranties on their machines to the use of their clothing and roll cover products. Our products may not be able to compete successfully with the products of our competitors, which could result in a loss of customers and, as a result, decreased sales and profitability. We compete primarily based on the value our products deliver to our customers. Our value proposition is based on a combination of price and the technology and performance of our products, including the ability of our products to help reduce our customers’ production costs and increase the quality of the paper they produce. Our competitors could develop new technology or products that lead to a reduced demand for our products. In addition, our business depends on our customers regularly needing to replace the clothing and roll covers used on their paper-making machines. Either we or our competitors could develop new technologies that increase the useful life of clothing or roll covers, which could reduce the frequency with which our customers would need to replace their clothing and refurbish or replace their roll covers, and consequently lead to fewer sales. Because we have substantial operations outside the United States, we are subject to the economic and political conditions of foreign nations. We have manufacturing facilities in 12 foreign countries. In 2009, we sold products in approximately 64 countries other than the United States, which represented approximately 73% of our net sales. We operate in a number of foreign countries and may face challenges unique to those countries such as in hiring employees, our relations with various parties, including suppliers and governmental agencies, and in production. Furthermore, we may decide to do business in countries where we have not previously done business, such as China, where we acquired a roll covers manufacturing business in November 2007. In such countries we face the additional uncertainty of entering a new market and its social customs, laws and practices. Should these challenges be realized, our operating results could be adversely impacted and our business or production may be delayed. Our foreign operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including risks that: • foreign governments may impose limitations on our ability to repatriate funds; • foreign governments may impose withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to us, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; • an outbreak or escalation of any insurrection or armed conflict may occur; or • foreign governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting our business. The occurrence of any of these conditions could disrupt our business in particular countries or regions of the world, or prevent us from conducting business in particular countries or regions, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, as a holding company we will rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from our subsidiaries to meet our debt obligations. If foreign governments impose limitations on our ability to repatriate funds or impose or increase taxes on remittances or other payments to us, the amount of dividends and other distributions we receive from our subsidiaries could be reduced, which could reduce the amount of cash available to us to meet our debt obligations. 26 Table of Contents We must continue to innovate and improve our products to maintain our competitive advantage. Our ability to retain our customers and increase our business depends on our ability to continually develop new, technologically superior products. We cannot assure that our investments in technological development will be sufficient, that we will be able to create and market new products, that such new products will be accepted by our customers or that we will be successful in competing against new technologies developed by competitors. We believe that market recognition of the extended life of our roll cover products and the trend towards new paper-making machine designs which have fewer rolls will continue to negatively impact the demand for our roll cover products. We have seen a trend that paper producers are placing an increasingly strong emphasis on maintenance cost reduction and, as a result, are extending the life of roll covers through additional maintenance cycles before replacing them. Market recognition of the extended life of our roll covers products negatively impacts the demand for these products. In addition, we have seen a trend towards new paper-making machine designs which have fewer rolls, also negatively impacting the demand for our roll cover products. If we are not able to offset these negative impacts on the demand for our roll cover products with growth from new roll cover products, the sale of roll cover products in regions which we believe have high growth potential such as China, or from other sources, the volume of our roll cover sales will be adversely affected. The loss of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Our top ten customers generated 22% of our net sales during 2009. The loss of one or more of our major customers, financial difficulties faced by our customers or a substantial decrease in such customers’ purchases from us, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Because we do not generally have binding long-term purchasing agreements with our customers, there can be no assurance that our existing customers will continue to purchase products from us. We may fail to adequately protect our proprietary technology, which would allow competitors or others to take advantage of our research and development efforts. We rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how, and continuing technological innovation to develop new products and remain competitive. If our competitors learn of our proprietary technology, they may use this information to produce products that are equivalent or superior to our products, which could reduce the sales of our products. Our employees, consultants, and corporate collaborators may breach their obligations not to reveal our confidential information, and any remedies available to us may be insufficient to compensate our damages. Even in the absence of such breaches, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how may otherwise become known to our competitors, or be independently discovered by our competitors, which could adversely affect our competitive position. We may be liable for product defects or other claims relating to our products. Our products could be defective, fail to perform as designed or otherwise cause harm to our customers, their equipment or their products. If any of our products are defective, we may be required to recall the products and/or repair or replace them, which could result in substantial expenses and affect our profitability. Any problems with the performance of our products could harm our reputation, which could result in a loss of sales to customers and/or potential customers. In addition, if our customers believe that they have suffered harm caused by our products, they could bring claims against us that could result in significant liability. A failure of our products could cause substantial damage to a paper-making machine. Any claims brought against us by customers may result in: • diversion of management’s time and attention; • expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, expenses, and payment of damages; 27 Table of Contents • decreased demand for our products and services; and • injury to our reputation. Our insurance may not sufficiently cover a large judgment against us or a large settlement payment, and is subject to customary deductibles, limits and exclusions. We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under laws protecting the environment and human health. Our operations and facilities are subject to a number of national, state and local laws and regulations protecting the environment and human health in the United States and foreign countries that govern, among other things, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, discharges of pollutants into the air and water and workplace safety. The U.S. federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended (“CERCLA”) provides for responses to, and, in some instances, joint and several liability for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Environmental laws also hold current owners or operators of land or businesses liable for their own and for previous owners’ or operators’ releases of hazardous or toxic substances, materials or wastes, pollutants or contaminants, including petroleum and petroleum products. Because of our operations, the history of industrial uses at some of our facilities, the operations of predecessor owners or operators of some of the businesses, and the use and release of hazardous substances at these sites, the liability provisions of environmental laws may affect us. Many of our facilities have experienced some level of regulatory scrutiny in the past and are or may be subject to further regulatory inspections, future requests for investigation or liability for regulated materials management practices. We cannot assure that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with all laws and regulations applicable to us which are designed to protect the environment and human health. We could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and third party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws, relevant common law or the environmental permits required for our operations. While we believe that the current level of reserves is adequate, the adequacy of these reserves may change in the future due to new developments in particular matters. During the third quarter of 2008, while evaluating one of our foreign facilities, we discovered the possibility of contamination at the facility. Subsequently we had a preliminary evaluation performed, which confirmed the existence of contamination and estimated preliminary costs to clean up the facility. Based upon this evaluation, in the third quarter of 2008, we recorded $4.1 million as our best estimate of the remediation costs we expected to incur. A Phase II assessment of the ground water contamination performed for us during the second quarter of 2009 indicated the costs to remediate the contamination would be significantly less than originally estimated and accordingly, we reduced the accrual by $3.4 million during the second quarter of 2009 based on this assessment. We do not expect any significant further remediation costs to be incurred in connection with this matter and believe that any additional liability in excess of amounts provided which may result from the resolution of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or cash flow. Adverse labor relations could harm our operations and reduce our profitability. As of December 31, 2009, we had 3,290 employees, approximately 17% of whom were subject to protection of various collective bargaining agreements and approximately 55% of whom were subject to job protection as members of trade unions, employee associations or workers’ councils. Approximately 37% of the employees subject to collective bargaining agreements (or approximately 6% of our total employees) were covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire prior to December 31, 2010. We cannot be certain that we will be able to renew such collective bargaining agreements, or enter into new collective bargaining agreements, which do not adversely affect our operating results and that we will be without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. In addition, approximately 89% of the employees subject to job protection as members of trade unions, employee associations or workers’ councils (or approximately 49% of our total employees) were subject 28 Table of Contents to arrangements that expire prior to December 31, 2010. We cannot be certain that the terms of employment applicable to such employees will not change in a manner which adversely affects our operating results. We cannot be certain that we will not experience disruptions in our operations as a result of labor disputes or experience other labor relations issues. If we are unable to maintain good relations with our employees, our ability to produce our products and provide services to our customers could be reduced and/or our production costs could increase, either of which could disrupt our business and reduce our profitability. Risks Relating to our Capital Structure We are subject to increased risk relating to the effects of currency and interest rate fluctuations on our operations, as we are we are unable to enter into additional hedging arrangements. Due to reduced credit limits at some of our banks, we have entered into fewer foreign currency hedging arrangements and we may not be able to enter into as many hedging arrangements in the future. Based on our credit issues we could no longer support that the variable-rate interest payments (hedged transactions) under our senior credit facility were probable of occurring and thus, effective September 1, 2009, we were required to discontinue cash flow hedge accounting prospectively for our interest rate swaps so that the mark to market changes in their fair value are charged or credited to interest expense. Additionally on December 31, 2009, we terminated with the counterparties all of our outstanding interest rate swap liabilities of $20.0 million and converted them to notes payable to the counterparties. As a result of these actions, our financial statements are more exposed to the effects of currency and interest rate fluctuations, respectively, both favorable and unfavorable, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. We do not anticipate paying a dividend on our common stock in the foreseeable future, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our credit facility prohibits the payment of dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, we do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. The lack of dividend payments may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our credit facility contains, and is likely to continue to contain, restrictive debt covenants that limit our business flexibility by imposing operating and financial restrictions on our operations. Our credit facility currently imposes, and is expected to continue to impose after our reorganization, significant operating and financial restrictions on our operations that may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. These restrictions prohibit or limit, among other things: • the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the payment of cash dividends and the issuance of certain redeemable capital stock; • investments and acquisitions; • disposition of assets and subsidiary interests; • transactions with affiliates; • the creation of liens on our assets; • consolidations, mergers and transfers of all or substantially all of our assets; and • our ability to change the nature of our business. The terms of our credit facility include other restrictive covenants and prohibit us from prepaying our other indebtedness while indebtedness under the credit facility is outstanding. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand downturns in our business or take advantage of business opportunities. 29 Table of Contents We will remain highly leveraged for the foreseeable future, which could impact our financing options, financial results and liquidity position. We have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2009, our total amount of outstanding debt, on a consolidated basis, was $640.1 million. Following the chapter 11 reorganization pursuant to the Plan or an alternative out-of-court restructuring, we expect to have outstanding debt on a consolidated basis, of approximately $440 million. The degree to which we are leveraged on a consolidated basis could have important consequences to the holders of our common stock, including: • we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; • our ability in the future to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited; • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and be limited in our ability to withstand competitive pressures; and • our leverage may limit our flexibility to plan for and react to changes in our business or strategy. We will continue to require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us, to service our debt and to fund our liquidity needs. Our ability to make payments on, refinance or repay our debt, to fund planned capital expenditures or to expand our business will depend largely upon our future operating performance. Our future operating performance is dependent upon our ability to execute our business strategy successfully. Such performance is also subject to general economic, financial and competitive factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our future operating performance will generate sufficient cash to support our cash requirements, or that we will not need to reduce capital expenditures or take other actions designed to conserve our cash in order to make payments required to service our indebtedness. Required payments with respect to our indebtedness will reduce the amount of funds available for other corporate purposes, which could harm our competitiveness and/or limit opportunities to grow our business. As a result of our existing credit facility and the Amended and Restated Credit Facility, we expect that in the foreseeable future a significantly greater portion of the cash generated by our business will be used to make required interest and principal payments under our credit facility. We may be required to make additional debt repayments based on “excess cash”, as defined in the credit agreement. As a result of these required payments: • we will have less funds available to devote to research and development, which could reduce our ability to develop new and innovative technologies and products and ultimately affect our ability to remain competitive; • we will have less funds available for capital expenditures, which could inhibit our ability to invest in new or upgraded production equipment and other capabilities, thereby restricting efforts to improve our manufacturing processes, reduce our operating costs, expand product offerings and/or conduct business in new markets; and • we will have reduced flexibility to finance growth or expansion opportunities, which could limit or cause us to forego future opportunities to grow our business. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our liquidity, interest expense and financial results. In addition, our senior credit facility has, and any replacement credit facility will likely have, a variable interest rate. To the extent that we do not enter into a hedging arrangement that effectively fixes the interest rate on a portion 30 Table of Contents of our senior debt the interest rate on all of the debt covered by our senior credit facility will fluctuate based on LIBOR and other variable interest rates. To the extent these interest rates increase, our interest expense will increase, in which event, we may have difficulty making interest payments and funding our other costs and our ability to comply with the financial covenants in our credit facility may be adversely affected. The market price of our common stock has been volatile since our initial public offering and may continue to be volatile. Shares of our common stock may continue to experience substantial price volatility, including significant decreases, in response to a number of events, including: • our potential chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings or out-of-court restructuring; • sales of our common stock by principal stockholders; • our quarterly operating results; • issuances of our common stock by us; • future announcements concerning our business; • the waivers solicited in connection with our credit facility; • our dividend policy; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock and/or changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • actions of competitors; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in U.S. and foreign government regulation; • general market, economic and political conditions; and • natural disasters, terrorist attacks and acts of war. On December 31, 2009 the closing price of our common stock was $0.76 as compared with $0.66 as of December 31, 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009 the lowest closing price of our common stock was $0.30 and the highest closing price was $2.20. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class action lawsuits filed against them. Such lawsuits, should they be filed against us in the future, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The NYSE may delist our common stock which would have an adverse impact on the liquidity and market price of our common stock. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. On November 18, 2009 we were notified by NYSER that we were not in compliance with the continued listing criteria of the NYSE, under Section 802.01C of the NYSE Listed Company Manual. Specifically, the NYSE considers us to be below these criteria because the average closing price of our common stock was less than $1.00 per share over a consecutive 30 trading day period. This notification represents the second instance that we were not in compliance with this criterion during the past twelve months. On December 29, 2008, we were first notified by NYSER that, in addition to not being in compliance with this criterion, we also were not in compliance with continued listing criteria under Section 802.01B of the Listed Company Manual because our average total market capitalization was less than $75 million over the same consecutive 30 trading day period and our most recently reported stockholders’ equity 31 Table of Contents was less than $75 million. In February 2009, the NYSE submitted to the SEC an immediately effective rule filing that reduced these amounts to $50 million, respectively. We cured the first instance of noncompliance under the $1.00 share price listing standard, which represented the end of the six-month cure period prescribed by NYSE rules. In February 2009, we submitted a plan advising the NYSE of definitive actions we have taken, or proposed to take, that would bring us into compliance with the market capitalization listing standards within 18 months of receipt of the initial letter which is June 29, 2010. We continue to provide the NYSE with quarterly updates to this submitted plan. Such quarterly updates include detailed commentary and description of the actions we are taking with our lenders in order to resolve the financial covenant non-compliance under our senior credit facility for the periods ended September 30, 2009 and December 31, 2009, which was waived through April 1, 2010. We believe that the covenant noncompliance negatively affected our share price and market capitalization. NYSER is reviewing the second instance of noncompliance under the $1.00 share price standard in connection with its broader assessment of our progress on this previously submitted 18-month business plan in order to determine the appropriate action concerning us. NYSER is continuing to monitor and assess the situation with us. Depending on the circumstances, NYSER could truncate the procedures outlined in Section 802.01C that would otherwise be applicable to companies that are not in compliance with the share price standard or it may initiate suspension or delisting procedures against us. Additionally, NYSER may also take accelerated listing action in the event that our common stock were to trade at levels deemed to be abnormally low over a sustained period of time or in the case of other material adverse developments. We may file voluntary petitions for relief under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on or before March 31, 2010. Section 802.01D of the NYSE Listed Company Manual provides that the NYSE will ordinarily delist any company that has filed for bankruptcy while not in compliance with continued listing standards, unless such company is profitable, has positive cash flow, or is demonstrably in sound financial health despite the bankruptcy proceedings. We have been in discussions with NYSER regarding our financial status, listing status and our potential chapter 11 filing, and will seek to continue the NYSE listing of our common stock. There can be no assurance that the NYSER will not take delisting actions against us notwithstanding our efforts, and thus there can be no assurance that our common stock will continue to be listed on the NYSE. The current financial crisis could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The current financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the going concern risks facing various financial institutions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, decreased liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business which may be difficult to predict or anticipate, including effects on our customers, suppliers, contractors and financing sources which could impact our collections, treasury functions, ability to obtain financing and our business and operations generally. Following our reorganization, our lenders are expected to own approximately 82.6% of our common stock and will therefore have significant influence over our business and significant transactions. As of December 31, 2009 there were 48,935,720 shares of our common stock outstanding, of which 25,043,764 in the aggregate, or approximately 51% were held by Apax WW Nominees Ltd. and Apax-Xerium APIA LP. The Plan calls for the issuance of common stock representing approximately 82.6% of our outstanding common stock to our lenders and we expect that any out-of-court restructuring would result in similar economic terms. As a result, these lenders will have a strong ability to influence our business, policies and affairs. The Plan also provides that our Board of Directors will be reconstituted, and will consist of seven directors as follows: (i) our Chief Executive Officer, (ii) one director nominated by our current Board of Directors, and (iii) five directors nominated by certain of our lenders. Because more than a majority of our Board of Directors will have 32 Table of Contents been nominated by our lenders, our lenders will have the ability to control all decisions of the Board. In addition, to the extent that any of these entities, either separately or as a group, own in excess of 50% of our common stock, they will have the ability to control the outcome of all elections of directors and any stockholder vote regarding a merger or other extraordinary transaction. We cannot be certain that the interests of our lenders will be consistent with the interests of other holders of common stock. In addition, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, merger or tender offer, which would deprive shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares of common stock and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Moreover, the lenders either alone or with other existing equity investors could effectively receive a premium for transferring ownership to third parties that would not inure to the benefit of investors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 