Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our Securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, before you decide whether to make an investment in our Securities. The risks set forth below are not the only risks we face. If any of the adverse events or conditions described below occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our NAV, and the trading price of our common stock could decline, or the value of our preferred stock, debt securities, and warrants, if any are outstanding, may decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Forward Looking Information Our annual report on Form l0-K for the year ended June 30, 2011, any of our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K, or any other oral or written statements made in press releases or otherwise by or on behalf of Prospect Capital Corporation may contain forward looking statements within the meaning of the Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which involve certain risks and uncertainties. Forward looking statements predict or describe our future operations, business plans, business and investment strategies and portfolio management and the performance of our investments and our investment management business. These forward looking statements are identified by their use of such terms and phrases as "intends," "intend," "intended," "goal," "estimate," "estimates," "expects," "expect," "expected," "project," "projected," "projections," "plans," "seeks," "anticipates," "anticipated," "should," "could," "may," "will," "designed to," "foreseeable future," "believe," "believes" and "scheduled" and similar expressions. Our actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those anticipated. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date the statement was made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Our actual results may differ significantly from any results expressed or implied by these forward looking statements. Some, but not all, of the factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to: •our future operating results; •our business prospects and the prospects of our portfolio companies; •the impact of investments that we expect to make; •our contractual arrangements and relationships with third parties; •the dependence of our future success on the general economy and its impact on the industries in which we invest; •the ability of our portfolio companies to achieve their objectives; •difficulty in obtaining financing or raising capital, especially in the current credit and equity environment; •the level and volatility of prevailing interest rates and credit spreads, magnified by the current turmoil in the credit markets; •adverse developments in the availability of desirable loan and investment opportunities whether they are due to competition, regulation or otherwise; •a compression of the yield on our investments and the cost of our liabilities, as well as the level of leverage available to us; 29 Table of Contents •our regulatory structure and tax treatment, including our ability to operate as a business development company and a regulated investment company; •the adequacy of our cash resources and working capital; •the timing of cash flows, if any, from the operations of our portfolio companies; •the ability of our investment adviser to locate suitable investments for us and to monitor and administer our investments.; •authoritative generally accepted accounting principles or policy changes from such standard-setting bodies as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, Internal Revenue Service, the New York Stock Exchange, and other authorities that we are subject to, as well as their counterparts in any foreign jurisdictions where we might do business; and •the risk factors set forth below. Risks Relating To Our Business We may suffer credit losses. Investment in small and middle-market companies is highly speculative and involves a high degree of risk of credit loss. These risks are likely to increase during volatile economic periods, such as the US and many other economies have recently been experiencing. See "Risks Related to Our Investments." Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to manage our future growth effectively. Prospect Capital Management has been registered as an investment adviser since March 31, 2004, and we have been organized as a closed-end investment company since April 13, 2004. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our ability to grow, which depends, in turn, on our Investment Adviser's ability to continue to identify, analyze, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our Investment Adviser's structuring of investments, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us and our access to financing on acceptable terms. As we continue to grow, Prospect Capital Management will need to continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. Failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon Prospect Capital Management's key management personnel for our future success. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the senior management of our Investment Adviser. We also depend, to a significant extent, on our Investment Adviser's access to the investment professionals and the information and deal flow generated by these investment professionals in the course of their investment and portfolio management activities. The senior management team of the Investment Adviser evaluates, negotiates, structures, closes, monitors and services our investments. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of the senior management team, particularly John F. Barry III and M. Grier Eliasek. The departure of any of the senior management team could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. In addition, we can offer no assurance that Prospect Capital Management will remain our investment adviser or that we will continue to have access to its investment professionals or its information and deal flow. 30 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make in target companies. We compete with other business development companies, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks and commercial financing companies. Additionally, because competition for investment opportunities generally has increased among alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds, those entities have begun to invest in areas they have not traditionally invested in, including investments in middle-market companies. As a result of these new entrants, competition for investment opportunities at middle-market companies has intensified, a trend we expect to continue. Many of our existing and potential competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more or fuller relationships with borrowers and sponsors than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of existing and increasing competition and our competitors ability to provide a total package solution, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. We do not seek to compete primarily based on the interest rates that we offer, and we believe that some of our competitors make loans with interest rates that are comparable to or lower than the rates we offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure. If we match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit loss. Most of our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors and, as a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. A large percentage of our portfolio investments consist of securities of privately held companies. Hence, market quotations are generally not readily available for determining the fair values of such investments. The determination of fair value, and thus the amount of unrealized losses we may incur in any year, is to a degree subjective, and the Investment Adviser has a conflict of interest in making the determination. We value these securities quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors based on input from our Investment Adviser, a third party independent valuation firm and our audit committee. Our Board of Directors utilizes the services of an independent valuation firm to aid it in determining the fair value of any securities. The types of factors that may be considered in determining the fair values of our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company's ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow, current market interest rates and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, the valuations may fluctuate significantly over short periods of time due to changes in current market conditions. The determinations of fair value by our Board of Directors may differ materially from the values that would have been used if an active market and market quotations existed for these investments. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if the determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. In addition, decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments are recorded as unrealized depreciation. Unprecedented declines in prices and liquidity in the corporate debt markets 31 Table of Contents experienced during the recent financial crises resulted in significant net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio in the past. The effect of all of these factors on our portfolio reduced our NAV by increasing net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio. Depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial realized losses and may continue to suffer additional unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Senior securities, including debt, expose us to additional risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently use our revolving credit facility to leverage our portfolio and we expect in the future to borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks and other lenders and may securitize certain of our portfolio investments. We also have the Notes outstanding, which are a form of leverage and are senior in payment to our common stock. With certain limited exceptions, as a BDC we are only allowed to borrow amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is at least 200% after such borrowing. The amount of leverage that we employ will depend on our Investment Adviser's and our Board of Directors' assessment of market conditions and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. There is no assurance that a leveraging strategy will be successful. Leverage involves risks and special considerations for stockholders, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and result of operations: •A likelihood of greater volatility in the net asset value and market price of our common stock; •Diminished operating flexibility as a result of asset coverage or investment portfolio composition requirements required by lenders or investors that are more stringent than those imposed by the 1940 Act; •The possibility that investments will have to be liquidated at less than full value or at inopportune times to comply with debt covenants or to pay interest or dividends on the leverage; •Increased operating expenses due to the cost of leverage, including issuance and servicing costs; •Convertible or exchangeable securities issued in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock; •Subordination to lenders' superior claims on our assets as a result of which lenders will be able to receive proceeds available in the case of our liquidation before any proceeds are distributed to our stockholders; •Making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under the Notes and our other outstanding debt; •The occurrence of an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and/or other restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, including the credit agreement and each indenture governing the Notes, which event of default could result in all or some of our debt becoming immediately due and payable; •Reduced availability of our cash flow to fund investments, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; •The risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on our indebtedness with variable interest rates, including borrowings under our amended senior credit facility; and •Reduced flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy. 32 Table of Contents For example, the amount we may borrow under our revolving credit facility is determined, in part, by the fair value of our investments. If the fair value of our investments declines, we may be forced to sell investments at a loss to maintain compliance with our borrowing limits. Other debt facilities we may enter into in the future may contain similar provisions. Any such forced sales would reduce our net asset value and also make it difficult for the net asset value to recover. In addition, our ability to meet our payment and other obligations of the Notes and our credit facility depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing credit facility or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under the Notes and our other debt and to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, including the Notes, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under the Notes and our other debt. Illustration. The following table illustrates the effect of leverage on returns from an investment in our common stock assuming various annual returns, net of interest expense. The calculations in the table below are hypothetical and actual returns may be higher or lower than those appearing below. The calculation assumes (i) $1.5 billion in total assets, (ii) an average cost of funds of 5.88%, (iii) $400 million in debt outstanding and (iv) $1.1 billion of shareholders' equity. Assumed Return on Our Portfolio (net of expenses) (10 )% (5 )% 0 % 5 % 10 % Corresponding Return to Stockholder (15.77 )% (8.96 )% (2.14 )% 4.68 % 11.50 % The assumed portfolio return is required by regulation of the SEC and is not a prediction of, and does not represent, our projected or actual performance. Actual returns may be greater or less than those appearing in the table. The Notes present other risks to holders of our common stock, including the possibility that the Notes could discourage an acquisition of the Company by a third party and accounting uncertainty. Certain provisions of the Notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, holders of the Notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their Notes or any portion of the principal amount of such Notes in integral multiples of $1,000. We may also be required to increase the conversion rate or provide for conversion into the acquirer's capital stock in the event of certain fundamental changes. These provisions could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. The accounting for convertible debt securities is subject to frequent scrutiny by the accounting regulatory bodies and is subject to change. We cannot predict if or when any such change could be made and any such change could have an adverse impact on our reported or future financial results. Any such impacts could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We fund a portion of our investments with borrowed money, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us. Borrowings and other types of financing, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increase the risks associated with investing in our securities. Our lenders have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders or any preferred stockholders. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would 33 Table of Contents cause the net asset value to increase more sharply than it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our income in excess of consolidated interest payable on the borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in our income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could negatively affect our ability to make common stock dividend payments. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. We may in the future determine to fund a portion of our investments with preferred stock, which would magnify the potential for gain or loss and the risks of investing in us in the same way as our borrowings. Preferred stock, which is another form of leverage, has the same risks to our common stockholders as borrowings because the dividends on any preferred stock we issue must be cumulative. Payment of such dividends and repayment of the liquidation preference of such preferred stock must take preference over any dividends or other payments to our common stockholders, and preferred stockholders are not subject to any of our expenses or losses and are not entitled to participate in any income or appreciation in excess of their stated preference. In addition to regulatory restrictions that restrict our ability to raise capital, our credit facility contains various covenants which, if not complied with, could accelerate repayment under the facility, thereby materially and adversely affecting our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. The agreement governing our credit facility requires us to comply with certain financial and operational covenants. These covenants include: •restrictions on the level of indebtedness that we are permitted to incur in relation to the value of our assets; •restrictions on our ability to incur liens; and •maintenance of a minimum level of stockholders' equity. As of June 30, 2011, we were in compliance with these covenants. However, our continued compliance with these covenants depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, there are no assurances that we will continue to comply with the covenants in our credit facility. Failure to comply with these covenants would result in a default under this facility which, if we were unable to obtain a waiver from the lenders thereunder, could result in an acceleration of repayments under the facility and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to extend our existing credit facility, the revolving period of which is currently scheduled to expire on June 13, 2012, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position and our ability to pay expenses and make distributions. The revolving period for our credit facility with a syndicate of lenders is currently scheduled to terminate on June 13, 2012. If the credit facility is not renewed or extended by the participant banks by June 13, 2012, we will not be able to make further borrowings under the facility after such date and the outstanding principal balance on that date will be due and payable on June 13, 2013. At June 30, 2011 we had outstanding borrowings of $84.2 million under our credit facility. Interest on borrowings under the credit facility is one-month Libor plus 325 basis points, subject to a minimum Libor floor of 100 basis points. Additionally, the lenders charge a fee on the unused portion of the credit facility equal to either 75 basis points if at least half of the credit facility is used or 100 basis points otherwise. If we are unable to extend our facility or find a new source of borrowing on acceptable terms, we will be 34 Table of Contents required to pay down the amounts outstanding under the facility during the one-year term-out period through one or more of the following: (1) principal collections on our securities pledged under the facility, (2) at our option, interest collections on our securities pledged under the facility and cash collections on our securities not pledged under the facility, or (3) possible liquidation of some or all of our loans and other assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position and may force us to decrease or stop paying certain expenses and making distributions until the facility is repaid. In addition, our stock price could decline significantly, we would be restricted in our ability to acquire new investments and, in connection with our year-end audit, our independent registered accounting firm could raise an issue as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net investment income. A significant portion of the debt investments we make bears interest at fixed rates and the value of these investments could be negatively affected by increases in market interest rates. In addition, as the interest rate on our revolving credit facility is at a variable rate based on an index, an increase in interest rates would make it more expensive to use debt to finance our investments. As a result, a significant increase in market interest rates could both reduce the value of our portfolio investments and increase our cost of capital, which would reduce our net investment income. We need to raise additional capital to grow because we must distribute most of our income. We need additional capital to fund growth in our investments. A reduction in the availability of new capital could limit our ability to grow. We must distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to our shareholders to maintain our RIC status. As a result, such earnings are not available to fund investment originations. We have sought additional capital by borrowing from financial institutions and may issue debt securities or additional equity securities. If we fail to obtain funds from such sources or from other sources to fund our investments, we could be limited in our ability to grow, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. In addition, as a business development company, we are generally required to maintain a ratio of total assets to total borrowings and other senior securities of at least 200%, which may restrict our ability to borrow in certain circumstances. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We generally make investments in private companies. Substantially all of these securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or are otherwise less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we or our Investment Adviser has material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest or dividend rates payable on the debt or equity securities we hold, the default rate on debt securities, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, the seasonality of the energy industry, weather patterns, changes in energy prices and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. 35 Table of Contents Our most recent net asset value was calculated on June 30, 2011 and our NAV when calculated effective September 30, 2011 may be higher or lower. Our most recently estimated NAV per share is $10.25 on an as adjusted basis solely to give effect to a distribution with a record date of July 29, 2011, our issuance of common shares on July 22, 2011 and August 26, 2011 in connection with our dividend reinvestment plan, and our issuance of 1,500,000 shares of common stock on July 18, 2011 in connection with the exercise of an overallotment option granted with the June 21, 2011 offering of 10,000,000 shares which were delivered June 24, 2011, versus $10.36 determined by us as of June 30, 2011. NAV as of September 30, 2011 may be higher or lower than $10.25 based on potential changes in valuations and earnings for the quarter then ended. Our Board of Directors has not yet determined the fair value of portfolio investments at any date subsequent to June 30, 2011. Our Board of Directors determines the fair value of our portfolio investments on a quarterly basis in connection with the preparation of quarterly financial statements and based on input from an independent valuation firm, our Investment Adviser and the audit committee of our Board of Directors. Potential conflicts of interest could impact our investment returns. Our executive officers and directors, and the executive officers of our Investment Adviser, Prospect Capital Management, may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or related lines of business as we do or of investment funds managed by our affiliates. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in our best interests or those of our stockholders. Nevertheless, it is possible that new investment opportunities that meet our investment objective may come to the attention of one of these entities in connection with another investment advisory client or program, and, if so, such opportunity might not be offered, or otherwise made available, to us. However, as an investment adviser, Prospect Capital Management has a fiduciary obligation to act in the best interests of its clients, including us. To that end, if Prospect Capital Management or its affiliates manage any additional investment vehicles or client accounts in the future, Prospect Capital Management will endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner over time so as not to discriminate unfairly against any client. If Prospect Capital Management chooses to establish another investment fund in the future, when the investment professionals of Prospect Capital Management identify an investment, they will have to choose which investment fund should make the investment. In the course of our investing activities, under the Investment Advisory Agreement we pay base management and incentive fees to Prospect Capital Management, and reimburse Prospect Capital Management for certain expenses it incurs. As a result of the Investment Advisory Agreement, there may be times when the senior management team of Prospect Capital Management has interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict. Prospect Capital Management receives a quarterly income incentive fee based, in part, on our pre-incentive fee net investment income, if any, for the immediately preceding calendar quarter. This income incentive fee is subject to a fixed quarterly hurdle rate before providing an income incentive fee return to the Investment Adviser. This fixed hurdle rate was determined when then current interest rates were relatively low on a historical basis. Thus, if interest rates rise, it would become easier for our investment income to exceed the hurdle rate and, as a result, more likely that our Investment Adviser will receive an income incentive fee than if interest rates on our investments remained constant or decreased. Subject to the receipt of any requisite stockholder approval under the 1940 Act, our Board of Directors may adjust the hurdle rate by amending the Investment Advisory Agreement. The income incentive fee payable by us is computed and paid on income that may include interest that has been accrued but not yet received in cash. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan that has a deferred interest feature, it is possible that interest accrued under such loan that has previously been 36 Table of Contents included in the calculation of the income incentive fee will become uncollectible. If this happens, our Investment Adviser is not required to reimburse us for any such income incentive fee payments. If we do not have sufficient liquid assets to pay this incentive fee or distributions to stockholders on such accrued income, we may be required to liquidate assets in order to do so. This fee structure could give rise to a conflict of interest for our Investment Adviser to the extent that it may encourage the Investment Adviser to favor debt financings that provide for deferred interest, rather than current cash payments of interest. We have entered into a royalty-free license agreement with Prospect Capital Management. Under this agreement, Prospect Capital Management agrees to grant us a non-exclusive license to use the name "Prospect Capital." Under the license agreement, we have the right to use the "Prospect Capital" name for so long as Prospect Capital Management or one of its affiliates remains our Investment Adviser. In addition, we rent office space from Prospect Administration, an affiliate of Prospect Capital Management, and pay Prospect Administration our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by Prospect Administration in performing its obligations as Administrator under the Administration Agreement, including rent and our allocable portion of the costs of our chief financial officer and chief compliance officer and their respective staffs. This may create conflicts of interest that our Board of Directors monitors. Our incentive fee could induce Prospect Capital Management to make speculative investments. The incentive fee payable by us to Prospect Capital Management may create an incentive for our Investment Adviser to make investments on our behalf that are more speculative or involve more risk than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The way in which the incentive fee payable is determined (calculated as a percentage of the return on invested capital) may encourage the Investment Adviser to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. Increased use of leverage and this increased risk of replacement of that leverage at maturity would increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor holders of our common stock. Similarly, because the Investment Adviser will receive an incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments, the Investment Adviser may invest more than would otherwise be appropriate in companies whose securities are likely to yield capital gains, as compared to income producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns. The incentive fee payable by us to Prospect Capital Management could create an incentive for our Investment Adviser to invest on our behalf in instruments, such as zero coupon bonds, that have a deferred interest feature. Under these investments, we would accrue interest income over the life of the investment but would not receive payments in cash on the investment until the end of the term. Our net investment income used to calculate the income incentive fee, however, includes accrued interest. For example, accrued interest, if any, on our investments in zero coupon bonds will be included in the calculation of our incentive fee, even though we will not receive any cash interest payments in respect of payment on the bond until its maturity date. Thus, a portion of this incentive fee would be based on income that we may not have yet received in cash in the event of default may never receive. We may be obligated to pay our investment adviser incentive compensation even if we incur a loss. Our investment adviser is entitled to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter based, in part, on our preincentive fee net investment income if any, for the immediately preceding calendar quarter above a performance threshold for that quarter. Accordingly, since the performance threshold is based on a percentage of our net asset value, decreases in our net asset value make it easier to achieve the performance threshold. Our pre-incentive fee net investment income for incentive compensation purposes excludes realized and unrealized capital losses or depreciation that we may incur in the fiscal 37 Table of Contents quarter, even if such capital losses or depreciation result in a net loss on our statement of operations for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay Prospect Capital Management incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our portfolio or we incur a net loss for that quarter. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state and U.S. Federal levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, changes in these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. For additional information regarding the regulations we are subject to, see "Business—Regulation as a Business Development Company." Foreign and domestic political risk may adversely affect our business. We are exposed to political risk to the extent that Prospect Capital Management, on its behalf and subject to its investment guidelines, transacts in securities in the US and foreign markets. The governments in any of these jurisdictions could impose restrictions, regulations or other measures, which may have a material adverse impact on our strategy. Capital markets have recently been in a period of disruption and instability. These market conditions have materially and adversely affected debt and equity capital markets in the United States and abroad, which have had, and may in the future have, a negative impact on our business and operations. The U.S. and foreign capital markets have recently been in a period of disruption as evidenced by a lack of liquidity in the debt capital markets, significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated credit market and the failure of certain major financial institutions. Despite actions of the United States federal government and foreign governments, these events contributed to worsening general economic conditions that materially and adversely impacted the broader financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole and financial services firms in particular. While these conditions appear to be improving, they could continue for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future. In addition, while these conditions persist, we and other companies in the financial services sector may have to access, if available, alternative markets for debt and equity capital in order to grow. Equity capital may be difficult to raise because subject to some limited exceptions, as a BDC, we are generally not able to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price less than net asset value without first obtaining approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our independent directors. At our annual meeting of stockholders held on December 10, 2010, subject to certain determinations required to be made by our Board of Directors, our stockholders approved our ability to sell or otherwise issue shares of our common stock at a price below its then current net asset value per share for a twelve month period expiring on the anniversary of the date of stockholder approval. In addition, our ability to incur indebtedness or issue other senior securities (including by issuing preferred stock) is limited by applicable regulations such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, must equal at least 200% immediately after each time we incur indebtedness or issue other senior securities. The debt capital that will be available, if at all, may be at a higher cost and on less favorable terms and conditions in the future. Any inability to raise capital could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, recent market conditions have made, and may in the future make, it difficult to extend the maturity of or refinance our existing indebtedness and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if required. As a result, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have recorded our investments. Given the recent extreme volatility and dislocation in the capital markets, many BDCs have faced, and may in the future face, a challenging 38 Table of Contents environment in which to raise capital. Recent significant changes in the capital markets affecting our ability to raise capital have affected the pace of our investment activity. In addition, significant changes in the capital markets, including the recent extreme volatility and disruption, has had, and may in the future have, a negative effect on the valuations of our investments and on the potential for liquidity events involving our investments. An inability to raise capital, and any required sale of our investments for liquidity purposes, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating To Our Operation As A Business Development Company A failure on our part to maintain our status as a business development company would significantly reduce our operating flexibility. If we do not continue to qualify as a business development company, we might be regulated as a registered closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act; our failure to qualify as a BDC would make us subject to additional regulatory requirements, which may significantly decrease our operating flexibility by limiting our ability to employ leverage and issue common stock. If we fail to qualify as a RIC, we will have to pay corporate-level taxes on our income, and our income available for distribution would be reduced. To maintain our qualification for federal income tax purposes as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code, and obtain RIC tax treatment, we must meet certain source of income, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The source of income requirement is satisfied if we derive at least 90% of our annual gross income from interest, dividends, payments with respect to certain securities loans, gains from the sale or other disposition of securities or options thereon or foreign currencies, or other income derived with respect to our business of investing in such securities or currencies, and net income from interests in "qualified publicly traded partnerships," as defined in the Code. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to our stockholders on an annual basis. Because we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify for RIC tax treatment. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax. To maintain our qualification as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments are in private companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason or become subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution, and the actual amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a materially adverse effect on us and our stockholders. For additional information regarding asset coverage ratio and RIC requirements, see "Business—Tax Considerations" and "Business—Regulation as a Business Development Company". 39 Table of Contents We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount or payment-in-kind interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such original issue discount, which could be significant relative to our overall investment activities, or increases in loan balances as a result of payment-in-kind arrangements, are included in our taxable income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in taxable income certain other amounts that we do not receive in cash. While we focus primarily on investments that will generate a current cash return, our investment portfolio currently includes, and we may continue to invest in, securities that do not pay some or all of their return in periodic current cash distributions. The income incentive fee payable by us is computed and paid on income that may include interest that has been accrued but not yet received in cash. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan that is structured to provide accrued interest, it is possible that accrued interest previously used in the calculation of the income incentive fee will become uncollectible. Since in some cases we may recognize taxable income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty distributing at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, as required to maintain RIC tax treatment. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company affect our ability to raise, and the way in which we raise, additional capital. We have incurred indebtedness under our revolving credit facility and through the issuance of the Notes and, in the future, may issue preferred stock and/or borrow additional money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as "senior securities," up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a BDC, to incur indebtedness or issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test, which would prohibit us from paying dividends and could prohibit us from qualifying as a RIC. If we cannot satisfy this test, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments or sell additional shares of common stock at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous in order to repay a portion of our indebtedness. In addition, issuance of additional common stock could dilute the percentage ownership of our current stockholders in us. As a BDC regulated under provisions of the 1940 Act, we are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below the current net asset value per share. If our common stock trades at a discount to net asset value, this restriction could adversely affect our ability to raise capital. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of our common stock in certain circumstances, including if (i)(1) the holders of a majority of our shares (or, if less, at least 67% of a quorum consisting of a majority of our shares) and a similar majority of the holders of our shares who are not affiliated persons of us approve the sale of our common stock at a price that is less than the current net asset value, and (2) a majority of our Directors who have no financial interest in the transaction and a majority of our independent Directors (a) determine that such sale is in our and our stockholders' best interests and (b) in consultation with any underwriter or underwriters of the offering, make a good 40 Table of Contents faith determination as of a time either immediately prior to the first solicitation by us or on our behalf of firm commitments to purchase such shares, or immediately prior to the issuance of such shares, that the price at which such shares are to be sold is not less than a price which closely approximates the market value of such shares, less any distributing commission or discount or if (ii) a majority of the number of the beneficial holders of our common stock entitled to vote at our annual meeting, without regard to whether a majority of such shares are voted in favor of the proposal, approve the sale of our common stock at a price that is less than the current net asset value per share. At our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders held on December 11, 2009, and our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders held on December 10, 2010, we obtained the first method of approval from our shareholders to sell an unlimited number of shares of common stock at any discount to net asset value per share for a period of twelve months, expiring on December 10, 2011. We will not sell shares of common stock under a prospectus supplement to the registration statement (the "current registration statement") if the cumulative dilution to our NAV per share from offerings under the current registration statement exceeds 15%. See "If we sell common stock at a discount to our net asset value per share, stockholders who do not participate in such sale will experience immediate dilution in an amount that may be material" discussed below. To generate cash for funding new investments, we pledged a substantial portion of our portfolio investments under our revolving credit facility. These assets are not available to secure other sources of funding or for securitization. Our ability to obtain additional secured or unsecured financing on attractive terms in the future is uncertain. Alternatively, we may securitize our future loans to generate cash for funding new investments. See "—Securitization of our assets subjects us to various risks." Securitization of our assets subjects us to various risks. We may securitize assets to generate cash for funding new investments. We refer to the term securitize to describe a form of leverage under which a company (sometimes referred to as an "originator" or "sponsor") transfers income producing assets to a single-purpose, bankruptcy-remote subsidiary (also referred to as a "special purpose entity" or SPE), which is established solely for the purpose of holding such assets and entering into a structured finance transaction. The SPE then issues notes secured by such assets. The special purpose entity may issue the notes in the capital markets either publicly or privately to a variety of investors, including banks, non-bank financial institutions and other investors. There may be a single class of notes or multiple classes of notes, the most senior of which carries less credit risk and the most junior of which may carry substantially the same credit risk as the equity of the SPE. An important aspect of most debt securitization transactions is that the sale and/or contribution of assets into the SPE be considered a true sale and/or contribution for accounting purposes and that a reviewing court would not consolidate the SPE with the operations of the originator in the event of the originator's bankruptcy based on equitable principles. Viewed as a whole, a debt securitization seeks to lower risk to the note purchasers by isolating the assets collateralizing the securitization in an SPE that is not subject to the credit and bankruptcy risks of the originator. As a result of this perceived reduction of risk, debt securitization transactions frequently achieve lower overall leverage costs for originators as compared to traditional secured lending transactions. In accordance with the above description, to securitize loans, we may create a wholly owned subsidiary and contribute a pool of our assets to such subsidiary. The SPE may be funded with, among other things, whole loans or interests from other pools and such loans may or may not be rated. The SPE would then sell its notes to purchasers who we would expect to be willing to accept a lower interest rate and the absence of any recourse against us to invest in a pool of income producing assets to which none of our creditors would have access. We would retain all or a portion of the equity in the 41 Table of Contents SPE. An inability to successfully securitize portions of our portfolio or otherwise leverage our portfolio through secured and unsecured borrowings could limit our ability to grow our business and fully execute our business strategy, and could decrease our earnings, if any. However, the successful securitization of portions of our portfolio exposes us to a risk of loss for the equity we retain in the SPE and might expose us to greater risk on our remaining portfolio because the assets we retain may tend to be those that are riskier and more likely to generate losses. A successful securitization may also impose financial and operating covenants that restrict our business activities and may include limitations that could hinder our ability to finance additional loans and investments or to make the distributions required to maintain our status as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. The 1940 Act may also impose restrictions on the structure of any securitizations. Interests we hold in the SPE, if any, will be subordinated to the other interests issued by the SPE. As such, we will only receive cash distributions on such interests if the SPE has made all cash interest and other required payments on all other interests it has issued. In addition, our subordinated interests will likely be unsecured and rank behind all of the secured creditors, known or unknown, of the SPE, including the holders of the senior interests it has issued. Consequently, to the extent that the value of the SPE's portfolio of assets has been reduced as a result of conditions in the credit markets, or as a result of defaults, the value of the subordinated interests we retain would be reduced. Securitization imposes on us the same risks as borrowing except that our risk in a securitization is limited to the amount of subordinated interests we retain, whereas in a borrowing or debt issuance by us directly we would be at risk for the entire amount of the borrowing or debt issuance. Generally, we would expect the SPE not to be consolidated with us and in that event our only interest will be the value of our retained subordinated interest and the income allocated to us, which may be more or less than the cash we receive from the SPE, and none of the SPE's liabilities will be reflected as our liabilities. If the assets of the SPE are not consolidated with our assets and liabilities, then our interest in the SPE may be deemed not to be a qualifying asset for purposes of determining whether 70% of our assets are qualifying assets and the leverage incurred by such SPE may or may not be treated as borrowings by us for purposes of the requirement that we not issue senior securities in an amount in excess of our net assets. We may also engage in transactions utilizing SPEs and securitization techniques where the assets sold or contributed to the SPE remain on our balance sheet for accounting purposes. If, for example, we sell the assets to the SPE with recourse or provide a guarantee or other credit support to the SPE, its assets will remain on our balance sheet. Consolidation would also generally result if we, in consultation with the SEC, determine that consolidation would result in a more accurate reflection of our assets, liabilities and results of operations. In these structures, the risks will be essentially the same as in other securitization transactions but the assets will remain our assets for purposes of the limitations described above on investing in assets that are not qualifying assets and the leverage incurred by the SPE will be treated as borrowings incurred by us for purposes of our limitation on the issuance of senior securities. Our Investment Adviser may have conflicts of interest with respect to potential securitizations in as much as securitizations that are not consolidated may reduce our assets for purposes of determining its investment advisory fee although in some circumstances our investment adviser may be paid certain fees for managing the assets of the SPE so as to reduce or eliminate any potential bias against securitizations. Our ability to invest in public companies may be limited in certain circumstances. As a BDC, we must not acquire any assets other than "qualifying assets" specified in the 1940 Act unless, at the time the acquisition is made, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets (with certain limited exceptions) Subject to certain exceptions for follow-on investments and distressed 42 Table of Contents companies, an investment in an issuer that has outstanding securities listed on a national securities exchange may be treated as qualifying assets only if such issuer has a market capitalization that is less than $250 million at the time of such investment. Price declines and illiquidity in the corporate debt markets have adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, the fair value of our portfolio investments, reducing our net asset value through increased net unrealized depreciation. As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our Board of Directors. As part of the valuation process, the types of factors that we may take into account in determining the fair value of our investments include, as relevant and among other factors: available current market data, including relevant and applicable market trading and transaction comparables, applicable market yields and multiples, security covenants, call protection provisions, information rights, the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company's ability to make payments, its earnings and discounted cash flows, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparisons of financial ratios of peer companies that are public, merger and acquisition comparables, our principal market (as the reporting entity) and enterprise values. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments are recorded as unrealized depreciation. Unprecedented declines in prices and liquidity in the corporate debt markets resulted in significant net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio in the past. The effect of all of these factors on our portfolio has reduced our net asset value by increasing net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio. Depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial realized losses and may suffer additional unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our common stock may trade at a discount to our net asset value per share. Common stock of BDCs, like that of closed-end investment companies, frequently trades at a discount to current net asset value, which could adversely affect the ability to raise capital. In the past, our common stock has traded at a discount to our net asset value. The risk that our common stock may continue to trade at a discount to our net asset value is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. If we sell common stock at a discount to our net asset value per share, stockholders who do not participate in such sale will experience immediate dilution in an amount that may be material. At our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders held on December 10, 2010, our stockholders approved our ability to sell an unlimited number of shares of our common stock at any level of discount from net asset value per share during the 12 month period following the December 10, 2010 approval in accordance with the exception described above in "—Regulations governing our operation as a business development company affect our ability to raise, and the way in which we raise, additional capital." The issuance or sale by us of shares of our common stock at a discount to net asset value poses a risk of dilution to our stockholders. In particular, stockholders who do not purchase additional shares at or below the discounted price in proportion to their current ownership will experience an immediate decrease in net asset value per share (as well as in the aggregate net asset value of their shares if they do not participate at all). These stockholders will also experience a disproportionately greater decrease in their participation in our earnings and assets and their voting power than the increase we experience in our assets, potential earning power and voting interests from such issuance or sale. In addition, such sales may adversely affect the price at which our common stock trades. For additional information and hypothetical examples of these risks, see "Sales of Common Stock Below Net Asset Value" and the prospectus supplement pursuant to which such sale is made. We have sold 43 Table of Contents shares of our common stock at prices below net asset value per share and may continue to do so to the future. For additional information, see "Recent Sales of Common Stock Below Net Asset Value" in the prospectus supplement pursuant to which such sale is made, if applicable. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from knowingly participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities is our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act and we are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security or other property from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits "joint" transactions with an affiliate, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our independent directors. We are prohibited from buying or selling any security or other property from or to our Investment Adviser and its affiliates and persons with whom we are in a control relationship, or entering into joint transactions with any such person, absent the prior approval of the SEC. Risks Relating To Our Investments We may not realize gains or income from our investments. We seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation. However, the securities we invest in may not appreciate and, in fact, may decline in value, and the issuers of debt securities we invest in may default on interest and/or principal payments. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our investments, and any gains that we do realize may not be sufficient to offset any losses we experience. See "Business—Our Investment Objective and Policies". Our investments in prospective portfolio companies may be risky and we could lose all or part of our investment. Some of our portfolio companies have relatively short or no operating histories. These companies are and will be subject to all of the business risk and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise, including the risk that these companies may not reach their investment objective and the value of our investment in them may decline substantially or fall to zero. In addition, investment in the middle market companies that we are targeting involves a number of other significant risks, including: •these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of their securities or of any collateral with respect to any securities and a reduction in the likelihood of our realizing on any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; •they may have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; •because many of these companies are privately held companies, public information is generally not available about these companies. As a result, we will depend on the ability of our Investment Adviser to obtain adequate information to evaluate these companies in making investment decisions. If our Investment Adviser is unable to uncover all material information about these companies, it may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments; 44 Table of Contents •they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a materially adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; •they may have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in changing businesses with products subject to a risk of obsolescence and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; •they have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs; and •increased taxes, regulatory expense or the costs of changes to the way they conduct business due to the effects of climate change may adversely affect their business, financial structure or prospects. In addition, our executive officers, directors and our Investment Adviser could, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from proposed investments or from our investments in the portfolio companies. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. The U.S. and foreign financial markets have been experiencing a high level of volatility, disruption and distress, which was exacerbated by the failure of several major financial institutions in the last few months of 2008. Despite actions of the United States federal government and foreign governments, these events contributed to worsening general economic conditions that materially and adversely impacted the broader financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole and financial services firms in particular. While these conditions appear to be improving, they could continue for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future, both in the U.S. and globally. Our portfolio companies will generally be affected by the conditions and overall strength of the national, regional and local economies, including interest rate fluctuations, changes in the capital markets and changes in the prices of their primary commodities and products. These factors also impact the amount of residential, industrial and commercial growth in the energy industry. Additionally, these factors could adversely impact the customer base and customer collections of our portfolio companies. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans or meet other obligations during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase, and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease, during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize a portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt or preferred equity, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might 45 Table of Contents re-characterize our debt or equity holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to those of other creditors. Our portfolio contains a limited number of portfolio companies, which subjects us to a greater risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations under any of its debt securities. A consequence of the limited number of investments in our portfolio is that the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if one or more of our significant portfolio company investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one significant investment. Beyond our income tax diversification requirements, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our portfolio could contain relatively few portfolio companies. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as "follow-on" investments, in order to: (1) increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage; (2) exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing or (3) attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our investment. We may elect not to make follow-on investments, may be constrained in our ability to employ available funds, or otherwise may lack sufficient funds to make those investments. We have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. The failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our concentration of risk, because we prefer other opportunities, or because we are inhibited by compliance with BDC requirements or the desire to maintain our tax status. We may be unable to invest the net proceeds raised from offerings on acceptable terms, which would harm our financial condition and operating results. Until we identify new investment opportunities, we intend to either invest the net proceeds of future offerings in interest-bearing deposits or other short-term instruments or use the net proceeds from such offerings to reduce then-outstanding obligations under our credit facility. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find enough appropriate investments that meet our investment criteria or that any investment we complete using the proceeds from an offering will produce a sufficient return. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We make investments in private companies. A portion of these investments may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale, transfer, pledge or other disposition or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, we face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a business entity to the extent that we or our Investment Adviser has or could be deemed to have material non-public information regarding such business entity. We may have limited access to information about privately held companies in which we invest. We invest primarily in privately-held companies. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of our Investment Adviser's investment 46 Table of Contents professionals to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. These companies and their financial information are not subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules that govern public companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investment. We may not be in a position to control a portfolio investment when we are a debt or minority equity investor and its management may make decisions that could decrease the value of our investment. We make both debt and minority equity investments in portfolio companies. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. Our portfolio companies may incur debt or issue equity securities that rank equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We may invest in mezzanine debt and dividend-paying equity securities issued by our portfolio companies. Our portfolio companies usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt, or issue other equity securities, that rank equally with, or senior to, the securities in which we invest. By their terms, such instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of dividends, interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of securities ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying the senior security holders, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of securities ranking equally with securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other security holders in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. We may not be able to fully realize the value of the collateral securing our debt investments. Although a substantial amount of our debt investments are protected by holding security interests in the assets of the portfolio companies, we may not be able to fully realize the value of the collateral securing our investments due to one or more of the following factors: •our debt investments may be made in the form of mezzanine loans, therefore our liens on the collateral, if any, may be subordinated to those of the senior secured debt of the portfolio companies, if any. As a result, we may not be able to control remedies with respect to the collateral; •the collateral may not be valuable enough to satisfy all of the obligations under our secured loan, particularly after giving effect to the repayment of secured debt of the portfolio company that ranks senior to our loan; •bankruptcy laws may limit our ability to realize value from the collateral and may delay the realization process; •our rights in the collateral may be adversely affected by the failure to perfect security interests in the collateral; •the need to obtain regulatory and contractual consents could impair or impede how effectively the collateral would be liquidated and could affect the value received; and 47 Table of Contents •some or all of the collateral may be illiquid and may have no readily ascertainable market value. The liquidity and value of the collateral could be impaired as a result of changing economic conditions, competition, and other factors, including the availability of suitable buyers. Our investments in foreign securities may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. Our investment strategy contemplates potential investments in securities of foreign companies, including those located in emerging market countries. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. Such risks are more pronounced in emerging market countries Although currently most of our investments are, and we expect that most of our investments will be, U.S. dollar-denominated, investments that are denominated in a foreign currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. We may expose ourselves to risks if we engage in hedging transactions. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize certain investment risks, such as fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, but we can offer no assurance that such strategies will be effective. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. The success of our hedging transactions depends on our ability to correctly predict movements, currencies and interest rates. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. The degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies. The Company has no current intention of engaging in any of the hedging transaction described above, although it reserves the right to do so in the future. 48 Table of Contents Our Board of Directors may change our operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse to us and could impair the value of our stockholders' investment. Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive our current operating policies and our strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, financial condition, and value of our common stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively impact our ability to pay dividends and cause stockholders to lose all or part of their investment. Risks Relating To Our Securities Investing in our securities may involve a high degree of risk and is highly speculative. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies may be speculative and aggressive, and therefore, an investment in our shares may not be suitable for someone with low risk tolerance. The market price of our securities may fluctuate significantly. The market price and liquidity of the market for our securities may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include: •significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of business development companies or other companies in the energy industry, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; •changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or business development companies; •loss of RIC qualification; •changes in earnings or variations in operating results; •changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; •any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; •departure of one or more of Prospect Capital Management's key personnel; •operating performance of companies comparable to us; •changes in prevailing interest rates; •litigation matters; •general economic trends and other external factors; and •loss of a major funding source. 49 Table of Contents In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has, from time to time, been brought against that company. If our stock price fluctuates significantly, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources from our business. Sales of substantial amounts of our securities in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. Sales of substantial amounts of our securities or the availability of such securities for sale could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our securities. If this occurs and continues it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should we desire to do so. There is a risk that you may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time. We have made and intend to continue to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow or require any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a business development company, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law and of our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Our charter and bylaws and the Maryland General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our stockholders or otherwise be in their best interest. These provisions may prevent shareholders from being able to sell shares of our common stock at a premium over the current of prevailing market prices. Our charter provides for the classification of our Board of Directors into three classes of directors, serving staggered three-year terms, which may render a change of control or removal of our incumbent management more difficult. Furthermore, any and all vacancies on our Board of Directors will be filled generally only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors in office, even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum, and any director elected to fill a vacancy will serve for the remainder of the full term until a successor is elected and qualifies. Our Board of Directors is authorized to create and issue new series of shares, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of stock into one or more classes or series, including preferred stock and, without stockholder approval, to amend our charter to increase or decrease the number of shares of common stock that we have authority to issue, which could have the effect of diluting a stockholder's ownership interest. Prior to the issuance of shares of common stock of each class or series, including any reclassified series, our Board of Directors is required by our governing documents to set the terms, preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption for each class or series of shares of stock. Our charter and bylaws also provide that our Board of Directors has the exclusive power to adopt, alter or repeal any provision of our bylaws, and to make new bylaws. The Maryland General 50 Table of Contents Corporation Law also contains certain provisions that may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, such as: •The Maryland Business Combination Act, which, subject to certain limitations, prohibits certain business combinations between us and an "interested stockholder" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the common stock or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder and, thereafter, imposes special minimum price provisions and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and •The Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, which provides that "control shares" of a Maryland corporation (defined as shares of common stock which, when aggregated with other shares of common stock controlled by the stockholder, entitles the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors, as described more fully below) acquired in a "control share acquisition" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of "control shares") have no voting rights except to the extent approved by stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares of common stock. The provisions of the Maryland Business Combination Act will not apply, however, if our Board of Directors adopts a resolution that any business combination between us and any other person will be exempt from the provisions of the Maryland Business Combination Act. Our Board of Directors has adopted a resolution that any business combination between us and any other person is exempted from the provisions of the Business Combination Act, provided that the business combination is first approved by the Board of Directors, including a majority of the directors who are not interested persons as defined in the 1940 Act. There can be no assurance that this resolution will not be altered or repealed in whole or in part at any time. If the resolution is altered or repealed, the provisions of the Maryland Business Combination Act may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us. As permitted by Maryland law, our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions by any person of our common stock. Although our bylaws include such a provision, such a provision may also be amended or eliminated by our Board of Directors at any time in the future, provided that we will notify the Division of Investment Management at the SEC prior to amending or eliminating this provision. It is the view of the staff of the SEC that opting into the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act would be acting in a manner inconsistent with section 18(i) of the 1940 Act. We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case our stockholders may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash they receive. We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in part in our stock. Under IRS Revenue Procedure 2010-12, up to 90% of any such taxable dividend could be payable in our stock for dividends paid on or before December 31, 2012 with respect to any taxable year ending on or before December 31, 2011. The IRS has also issued private letter rulings on cash/stock dividends paid by regulated investment companies and real estate investment trusts if certain requirements are satisfied. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends would be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income (or as long-term capital gain to the extent such distribution is properly designated as a capital gain dividend) to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits for United States federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of any cash received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, it may be subject to transaction fees (e.g. broker fees or transfer agent fees) and the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. 51 Table of Contents Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. It is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to pay dividends in cash and our stock (whether pursuant to Revenue Procedure 2010-12, a private letter ruling, or otherwise. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 