Risk Factors—Risk Relating to our Business—We are exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates." The Allied Acquisition may have triggered certain "change of control" provisions and other restrictions in certain of our and Allied Capital's contracts and the failure to obtain any required consents or waivers could adversely impact us. Certain agreements of Allied Capital and Ares Capital or their controlled affiliates may have required a consent, amendment or waiver of one or more counterparties in connection with the Allied Acquisition. Our failure to have obtained any such consent, amendment or waiver may permit such counterparties to terminate, or otherwise increase their rights or our obligations under, any such agreement because the Allied Acquisition may have violated an anti-assignment, change of control or other provision. As a result, we may have to seek to replace that agreement with a new agreement or seek a waiver or amendment to such agreement. We cannot assure you that we will be able to replace, amend or obtain a waiver under any such agreement on comparable terms or at all. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our shares of common stock have traded at a discount from net asset value and may do so again in the future, which could limit our ability to raise additional equity capital. Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at a market price that is less than the net asset value that is attributable to those shares. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. It is not possible to predict whether any shares of our common stock will trade at, above, or below net asset value. In the recent past, including during much of 2009, the stocks of BDCs as an industry, including at times shares of our common stock, traded below net asset value and at near historic lows as a result of concerns over liquidity, leverage restrictions and distribution requirements. When our common stock is trading below its net asset value per share, we will generally not be able to issue additional shares of our common stock at its market price without first obtaining approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our independent directors. At our 2010 Annual Stockholders Meeting, subject to certain determinations required to be made by our board of directors, our stockholders approved our ability to sell or otherwise issue shares of our common stock, not exceeding 25% of our then outstanding common stock, at a price below the then current net asset value per share during a period beginning on June 7, 2010 and expiring on the earlier of the one-year anniversary of the date of our 2010 Annual Stockholders Meeting and the date of our 2011 Annual Stockholders Meeting. 47 There is a risk that investors in our common stock may not receive dividends or that our dividends may not grow over time. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. If we declare a dividend and if more stockholders opt to receive cash distributions rather than participate in our dividend reinvestment plan, we may be forced to sell some of our investments in order to make cash dividend payments. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. Further, if we invest a greater amount of assets in equity securities that do not pay current dividends, it could reduce the amount available for distribution. See "Dividend/Distribution Policy." Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law and of our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. The Maryland General Corporation Law, our charter and our bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or make more difficult a change in control of Ares Capital or the removal of our directors. We are subject to the Maryland Business Combination Act, subject to any applicable requirements of the Investment Company Act. Our board of directors has adopted a resolution exempting from the Business Combination Act any business combination between us and any other person, subject to prior approval of such business combination by our board, including approval by a majority of our disinterested directors. If the resolution exempting business combinations is repealed or our board does not approve a business combination, the Business Combination Act may discourage third parties from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such an offer. Our bylaws exempt from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act (the "Control Share Acquisition Act") acquisitions of our stock by any person. If we amend our bylaws to repeal the exemption from the Control Share Acquisition Act, the Control Share Acquisition Act also may make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such an offer. We have also adopted measures that may make it difficult for a third party to obtain control of us, including provisions of our charter classifying our board of directors in three classes serving staggered three-year terms, and provisions of our charter authorizing our board of directors to classify or reclassify shares of our stock in one or more classes or series, to cause the issuance of additional shares of our stock, and to amend our charter, without stockholder approval, to increase or decrease the number of shares of stock that we have authority to issue. These provisions, as well as other provisions of our charter and bylaws, may discourage, delay, defer, make more difficult or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Investing in our common stock may involve an above average degree of risk. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies may be highly speculative and aggressive and, therefore, an investment in our securities may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The capital and credit markets have recently experienced a period of extreme volatility and disruption that began in 2007. The market price and liquidity of the market for shares of our common 48 stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include: •significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of publicly traded RICs, BDCs or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; •price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; •changes in law, regulatory policies or tax guidelines, or interpretations thereof, particularly with respect to RICs or BDCs; •loss of our RIC status; •changes in our earnings or variations in our operating results; •changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; •any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; •departure of Ares Capital Management's key personnel; •operating performance of companies comparable to us; •short-selling pressure with respect to shares of our common stock or BDCs generally; •future sales of our securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our common stock or the conversion of such securities, including the 2016 Convertible Notes; •general economic trends and other external factors; and •loss of a major funding source. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. If our stock price fluctuates significantly, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources from our business. Our stockholders will experience dilution in their ownership percentage if they opt out of our dividend reinvestment plan. All dividends declared in cash payable to stockholders that are participants in our dividend reinvestment plan are automatically reinvested in shares of our common stock. As a result, our stockholders that opt out of our dividend reinvestment plan will experience dilution in their ownership percentage of our common stock over time. Our stockholders may experience dilution upon the conversion of the 2016 Convertible Notes. The 2016 Convertible Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock beginning August 15, 2015 or, under certain circumstances, earlier. Upon conversion, we have the choice to pay or deliver, as the case may be, at our election, cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. The current conversion price of the 2016 Convertible Notes is approximately $19.13 per share of common stock, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. If we elect to deliver shares of common stock upon a conversion at the time our tangible book value per share exceeds the conversion price in effect at such time, our stockholders may incur dilution. In addition, our stockholders will experience dilution in their ownership percentage of common stock upon our issuance of common stock in connection with the conversion of the 2016 Convertible Notes and 49 any dividends paid on our common stock will also be paid on shares issued in connection with such conversion after such issuance. Our stockholders may receive shares of our common stock as dividends, which could result in adverse tax consequences to them. In order to satisfy the annual distribution requirement applicable to RICs, we have the ability to declare a large portion of a dividend in shares of our common stock instead of in cash. As long as a portion of such dividend is paid in cash (which portion can be as low as 10% for our taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2011) and certain requirements are met, the entire distribution would be treated as a dividend for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, a stockholder would be taxed on 100% of the dividend in the same manner as a cash dividend, even though most of the dividend was paid in shares of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of such common stock for sale (including as a result of the conversion of our 2016 Convertible Notes into common stock), could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should we desire to do so. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 