Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The risks and uncertainties described below could individually or collectively have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, profitability or prospects. While these are not the only risks and uncertainties we face, we believe that the more significant risks and uncertainties are as follows: Acts of terrorism and threats of armed conflicts in or around various areas in which we operate could limit or disrupt markets and our operations, including disruptions resulting from the evacuation of personnel, cancellation of contracts, or the loss of personnel. Acts of terrorism and threats of armed conflicts in or around various areas in which we operate could limit or disrupt markets and our operations, including disruptions resulting from the evacuation of personnel, cancellation of contracts, or the loss of personnel. Such events may cause further disruption to financial and commercial markets and may generate greater political and economic instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. In addition, any possible reprisals as a consequence of the wars and ongoing military action in the Middle East, such as acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. We currently have active contracts in Libya, Egypt and certain areas of the Middle East. Due to the recent political unrest in Libya, we have suspended our operations in, and removed substantially all of our personnel from Libya. We are unable to predict when, or if, the work in Libya will resume. At December 31, 2010, the accounts receivable related to the work performed under contracts in the area is as follows: Libya $61,445,000, Egypt $5,467,000, and the Middle East $41,265,000. We are unable to determine the effect these crises will have on the collectibility of the aforementioned accounts receivable. We believe that the amounts due will be collected, however, if we are unable to do so, there could be a significant adverse impact on our results of operations and liquidity. Recent global economic trends could adversely affect our business, liquidity and financial results. Recent global economic conditions, including disruption of financial markets, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, primarily by limiting our access to credit and disrupting our clients’ businesses. The reduction in financial institutions’ willingness or ability to lend has increased the cost of capital and reduced the availability of credit. Although we currently believe that the financial institutions with whom we do business, will be able to fulfill their commitments to us, there is no assurance that those institutions will be able to continue to do so, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, continuation or worsening of general market conditions in the United States or other national economies important to our businesses may adversely affect our clients’ level of spending, ability to obtain financing, and ability to make timely payments to us for our services, which could require us to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, negatively impact our days sales outstanding and adversely affect our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents If our clients delay in paying or fail to pay amounts owed to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Accounts receivable represent the largest asset on our balance sheet. While we take steps to evaluate and manage the credit risks relating to our clients, economic downturns or other events can adversely affect the markets we serve and our clients ability to pay, which could reduce our ability to collect all amounts due from clients. If our clients delay in paying or fail to pay us a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. International operations and doing business with foreign governments expose us to legal, political and economic risks in different countries and currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial results. Our international operations contributed 73.6%, 80.0% and 77.7% of our consulting fee revenue for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • Lack of developed legal systems to enforce contractual rights; • Foreign governments may assert sovereign or other immunity if we seek to assert our contractual rights thus depriving us of any ability to seek redress against them; • Greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; • Currency exchange rate fluctuations; • Restrictions on the transfer of cash from certain foreign countries; • Imposition of governmental controls; • Political and economic instability; • Changes in U.S. and other national government policies affecting the markets for our services and our ability to do business with certain foreign governments or their political leaders; • Changes in regulatory practices, tariffs and taxes; • Potential non-compliance with a wide variety of non-U.S. laws and regulations; and • General economic, political and civil conditions in these foreign markets. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, including the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. The policies also are applicable to agents through which we do business in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-corruption laws may conflict 17 Table of Contents with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Our continued expansion outside the U.S., including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations in the future. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business, subject us to fines, penalties and restrictions and otherwise result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our business sometimes requires our employees to travel to and work in high security risk countries, which may result in employee injury, repatriation costs or other unforeseen costs. Many of our employees often travel to and work in high security risk countries around the world that are undergoing or that may undergo political, social and economic upheavals resulting in war, civil unrest, criminal activity or acts of terrorism. As a result, we may be subject to costs related to employee injury, repatriation or other unforeseen circumstances. Further, circumstances in these countries could make it difficult or impossible to attract and retain qualified employees. Our inability to attract and retain qualified employees to work in these counties could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We depend on long-term government contracts, many of which are funded on an annual basis. If appropriations are not made in subsequent years of a multiple-year contract, we will not realize all of our potential revenue and profit from that project. A significant portion of our consulting fee revenue is derived from contracts with federal, state, local and foreign governments. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, approximately 52.3%, 52.0%, and 42.4%, respectively, of our consulting fee revenue were derived from such contracts. Most government contracts are subject to the continuing availability of legislative appropriation. Legislatures typically appropriate funds for a given program on a year-by-year basis, even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at the beginning of a program, the related contract is only partially funded, and additional funding is normally committed only as appropriations are made in each subsequent fiscal year. These appropriations and the timing of payment of appropriated amounts may be influenced by, among other things, the state of the economy, budgetary and other political issues affecting the particular government and its appropriations process, competing priorities for appropriation, the timing and amount of tax receipts and the overall level of government expenditures. If appropriations are not made in subsequent years on government contracts, then we will not realize all of our potential revenue and profit from those contracts. Because we depend on government contracts for a significant portion of our consulting fee revenue, our inability to win profitable government contracts could harm our operations and adversely affect our net earnings. In 2010, U.S. federal government contracts and state and local government contracts contributed approximately 6.5% and 14.4%, respectively, of our total consulting fee revenue, and foreign government contracts contributed approximately 31.5% of our total consulting fee 18 Table of Contents revenue. Our inability to win profitable government contracts could harm our operations and adversely affect our net earnings. Government contracts are typically awarded through a heavily regulated procurement process. Some government contracts are awarded to multiple competitors, causing increases in overall competition and pricing pressure. In turn, the competition and pricing pressure may require us to make sustained post-award efforts to reduce costs under these contracts. If we are not successful in reducing the amount of costs we anticipate, our profitability on these contracts may be negatively impacted. Also, some of our federal government contracts require U.S. government security clearances. If we or certain of our personnel were to lose these security clearances, our ability to continue performance of these contracts or to win new contracts requiring a clearance may be negatively impacted. We depend on contracts that may be terminated by our clients on short notice, which may affect our ability to recognize all of our potential revenue and profit from the project. Substantially all of our contracts are subject to termination by the client either at its convenience or upon our default. If one of our clients terminates a contract at its convenience, then we typically are able to recover only costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination, which could prevent us from recognizing all of our potential revenue and profit from that contract. If one of our clients terminates the contract due to our default, we could be liable for excess costs incurred by the client in re-procuring services from another source, as well as other costs. Our contracts with governmental agencies are subject to audit, which could result in adjustments to reimbursable contract costs or, if we are charged with wrongdoing, possible temporary or permanent suspension from participating in government programs. Our books and records are subject to audit by the various governmental agencies we serve and by their representatives. These audits can result in adjustments to reimbursable contract costs and allocated overhead. In addition, if as a result of an audit, we or one of our subsidiaries is charged with wrongdoing or the government agency determines that we or one of our subsidiaries is otherwise no longer eligible for federal contracts, then we or, as applicable, that subsidiary, could be temporarily suspended or, in the event of convictions or civil judgments, could be prohibited from bidding on and receiving future government contracts for a period of time. Furthermore, as a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to an increased risk of investigations, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities, the results of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We submit change orders to our clients for work we perform beyond the scope of some of our contracts. If our clients do not approve these change orders, our net earnings could be adversely impacted. We typically submit change orders under some of our contracts for payment for work performed beyond the initial contractual requirements. The clients may not approve or may contest these change orders and we cannot assure you that these claims will be approved in whole, in part or at all. If these claims are not approved, our net earnings could be adversely impacted. 19 Table of Contents Because our backlog of uncompleted projects under contract or awarded is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations, including the amount, if any, of future appropriations by the applicable contracting governmental agency, it is an uncertain indicator of our future revenue and profits. At December 31, 2010, our backlog of uncompleted projects under contract or awarded was approximately $675,000,000. We cannot assure you that the backlog attributed to uncompleted projects under contract will be realized as revenue or, if realized, will result in profits. Many projects may remain in our backlog for an extended period of time because of the size or long-term nature of the contract. In addition, from time to time projects are scaled back or cancelled. These types of backlog reductions adversely affect the revenue and profit that we ultimately receive. Included in our backlog is the maximum amount of all indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity (“ID/IQ”), or task order, contracts, or a lesser amount if we do not reasonably expect to be issued task orders for the maximum amount of such contracts. We cannot provide any assurance that we will in fact be awarded the maximum amount of such contracts. We depend on the continued services of certain executive officers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain the services of these individuals. We are dependent upon the efforts and service of certain executive officers, particularly Irvin E. Richter, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and David L. Richter, our President and Chief Operating Officer, because of their knowledge, experience, skills and relationships with major clients and other members of our management team. Irvin E. Richter has served as our Chief Executive Officer since 1976. If we lost the services of one or both of these individuals for any reason, that could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our ability to grow and compete in our industry will be harmed if we do not retain the continued service of our key management, sales and technical personnel and identify, hire and retain additional qualified personnel. There is intense competition for qualified management, sales and technical personnel in the industry sectors in which we compete. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel who are necessary for the development of our business or to replace qualified personnel. Any growth we experience is expected to place increased demands on our resources and will likely require the addition of personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing personnel. Also, some of our personnel hold security clearance levels required to obtain government projects and, if we were to lose some or all of these personnel, they may be difficult to replace. Loss of the services of, or failure to recruit, key personnel could limit our ability to complete existing projects successfully and to compete for new projects. 20 Table of Contents Our dependence on subcontractors, partners and specialists could adversely affect our business. We rely on third-party subcontractors as well as third-party strategic partners and specialists to complete our projects. To the extent that we cannot engage such subcontractors, partners or specialists or cannot engage them on a competitive basis, our ability to complete a project in a timely fashion or at a profit may be impaired. If we are unable to engage appropriate strategic partners or specialists in some instances, we could lose the ability to win some contracts. In addition, if a subcontractor or specialist is unable to deliver its services according to the negotiated terms for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition or over-commitment of its resources, we may be required to purchase the services from another source at a higher price. This may reduce the profit to be realized or result in a loss on a project for which the services were needed. If our partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to legal liability, loss of reputation or reduced profits. We sometimes enter into joint venture agreements and other contractual arrangements with outside partners to jointly bid on and execute a particular project. The success of these joint projects depends on the satisfactory performance of the contractual obligations of our partners. If any of our partners fails to satisfactorily perform its contractual obligations, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to complete the project. If we are unable to adequately address our partner’s performance issues, then our client could terminate the joint project, exposing us to legal liability, loss of reputation or reduced profits. Our services expose us to significant risks of liability and our insurance policies may not provide adequate coverage. Our services involve significant risks of professional and other liabilities that may substantially exceed the fees that we derive from our services. In addition, we sometimes contractually assume liability under indemnification agreements. We cannot predict the magnitude of potential liabilities from the operation of our business. We currently maintain comprehensive general liability, umbrella and professional liability insurance policies. Professional liability policies are “claims made” policies. Thus, only claims made during the term of the policy are covered. Additionally, our insurance policies may not protect us against potential liability due to various exclusions and retentions. Partially or completely uninsured claims, if successful and of significant magnitude, could have a material adverse affect on our business. 21 Table of Contents We have acquired and may continue to acquire businesses as strategic opportunities arise and may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions. Since 1998, we have acquired 20 businesses and our strategy is to continue to expand and diversify our operations with additional acquisitions as strategic opportunities arise. Some of the risks that may affect our ability to realize any anticipated benefits from businesses that we acquire include: • Unexpected losses of key personnel or clients of the acquired business; • Difficulties arising from the increasing scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; • Undisclosed or unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business; • Diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and • Adverse effects on existing business relationships with clients. In addition, managing the growth of our operations will require us to continually increase and improve our operational, financial and human resources management and our internal systems and controls. If we are unable to manage growth effectively or to successfully integrate acquisitions, that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be required to write-off all or a portion of the remaining value of our goodwill or other intangibles of companies we have acquired. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we review our intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment at least annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant non-cash impairment charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations and stockholders’ equity. If our internal controls prove to be ineffective, it could impact our business and operating results. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of the inherent limitations of internal controls or otherwise, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. 22 Table of Contents Our use of accounting estimates involves judgment and could impact our financial results. The application of generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions about certain items and future events that directly affect our reported financial condition. Our most critical accounting estimates are described in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under “Critical Accounting Policies.” In addition, as discussed in Note 16, “Commitments and Contingencies,” we make certain estimates including decisions related to legal proceedings and reserves. These estimates and assumptions involve the use of judgment. As a result, actual financial results may differ. We cannot be certain that we will be able to raise capital or obtain debt financing to execute future acquisitions or to meet required capital needs. We are currently party to a revolving credit agreement to assist in funding working capital needs and for potential future acquisitions. This agreement contains certain financial covenants with respect to minimum net worth, total funded debt to EBITDA ratio, fixed charge coverage ratio, billed accounts receivable to senior secured indebtedness ratio, as well as other covenants. If our operating results are not as positive as we expect, that could cause us to be in violation of these covenants. In addition, our current revolving credit agreement may not provide us with sufficient credit to meet all of the future financial needs of our business. There is no guarantee that we could increase the availability under our current revolving credit agreement or obtain alternative debt or equity financing on terms that would be acceptable to us, or at all. The market price for our common stock could be volatile and could decline, resulting in a substantial or complete loss of your investment. The stock markets, including the New York Stock Exchange on which our common stock is listed, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be similarly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: • Our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • Actual or anticipated differences in our operating results; • Changes in our revenue or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • Publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts; • Additions and departures of key personnel; • Speculation in the press or investment community; • Actions by institutional shareholders; • Changes in accounting principles; 23 Table of Contents • Terrorist acts and other events affecting political, economic or civil conditions in one or more foreign countries in which we operate; and • General market conditions, including factors unrelated to our performance. Future sales of our common and preferred stock may depress the price of our common stock. As of March 1, 2011, there were 38,253,570 shares of our common stock outstanding. An additional 2,708,480 shares of our common stock may be issued upon the exercise of options held by employees, management and directors. We also have the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with terms that are determined by our Board of Directors, and additional options and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock without stockholder approval. Sales of a substantial number of these shares in the public market, or factors relating to the terms we may determine for our preferred stock, options or warrants, could decrease the market price of our common stock. In addition, the perception that such sales might occur may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Future issuances or sales of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 