ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing us and there may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently consider not likely to have a significant impact on us. All of these risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND GROWTH STRATEGY Adverse economic and geopolitical conditions and dislocations in the credit markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to stockholders. The global economy has recently experienced unprecedented levels of volatility, dislocation in the credit markets, and recessionary pressures. These conditions, or similar conditions that may exist in the future, may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, share price and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Among other potential consequences, such a financial crisis may materially adversely affect: • our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, or at all, which could reduce our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and refinance existing debt, reduce our returns from our acquisition and development activities and increase our future interest expense; • the financial condition of our borrowers, tenants and investees, which may result in defaults under loans or leases due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failures or for other reasons; • interest rates for those tenants in which we have an equity interest, a portion of which may be passed onto us in the form of lower returns on our investment; • the values of our properties and our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing collateralized by our properties; and • the value and liquidity of our short-term investments and cash deposits, including as a result of a deterioration of the financial condition of the institutions that hold our cash deposits or the institutions or assets in which we have made short-term investments, the dislocation of the markets for our short-term investments, increased volatility in market rates for such investment or other factors. Limited access to capital may restrict our growth. Our business plan contemplates growth through acquisitions and development of facilities. As a REIT, we are required to make cash distributions, which reduce our ability to fund acquisitions and developments with retained earnings. We are dependent on acquisition financing and access to the capital markets for cash to make investments in new facilities. Due to market or other conditions, we may have limited access to capital from the equity and debt markets. We may not be able to obtain additional equity or debt capital or dispose of assets on favorable terms, if at all, at the time we need additional capital to acquire healthcare properties or to meet our obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and may otherwise adversely impact our business operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. As of December 31, 2011, we had $689.8 million of debt outstanding. As of February 22, 2012 (and after giving effect to the Ernest Acquisition and related financings completed to-date), we had liquidity available to us of approximately $780 million, total outstanding indebtedness of approximately $840.0 million, and $457.8 million in unfunded commitments. Our indebtedness could have significant effects on our business. For example, it could: • require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, which would reduce the available cash flow to fund working capital, development projects and other general corporate purposes and reduce cash for distributions; • require payments of principal and interest that may be greater than our cash flow from operations; 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • force us to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms, to make payments on our debt; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting other business opportunities; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. Our future borrowings under our loan facilities may bear interest at variable rates in addition to the $89.6 million in variable interest rate debt (excluding any debt we have fixed with interest rate swaps) that we had outstanding as of December 31, 2011. If interest rates increase significantly, our ability to borrow additional funds may be reduced and the risk related to our indebtedness would intensify. Our use of debt financing will subject us to significant risks, including refinancing risk and the risk of insufficient cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Most of our current debt is, and we anticipate that much of our future debt will be, non-amortizing and payable in balloon payments. Therefore, we will likely need to refinance at least a portion of that debt as it matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance then-existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of the then-existing debt. If principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or repaid with proceeds from other sources, such as new equity capital or sales of facilities, our cash flow may not be sufficient to repay all maturing debt in years when significant balloon payments come due. Additionally, we may incur significant penalties if we choose to prepay the debt. Covenants in our debt instruments limit our operational flexibility, and a breach of these covenants could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. The terms of our unsecured credit facility, the indentures governing our outstanding exchangeable senior notes and unsecured senior notes and other debt instruments that we may enter into in the future are subject to customary financial and operational covenants. For example, our unsecured credit facility imposes certain restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to: incur debts; create or incur liens; provide guarantees in respect of obligations of any other entity; make redemptions and repurchases of our capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; engage in mergers or consolidations; enter into affiliated transactions; dispose of real estate; and change our business. In addition, the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility limits the amount of dividends we can pay to 120% of normalized adjusted funds from operations, as defined in the agreements, on a rolling four quarter basis starting for the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2012. Thereafter, a similar dividend restriction exists but the percentage drops each quarter until reaching 95% at March 31, 2013. The indenture governing our 2011 senior unsecured notes also limits the amount of dividends we can pay based on the sum of 95% of funds from operations, proceeds of equity issuances and certain other net cash proceeds. Finally, our 2011 senior unsecured notes (along with the senior unsecured notes entered into in 2012 in connection with the Ernest acquisition) require us to maintain total unencumbered assets (as defined in the related indenture) of not less than 150% of our unsecured indebtedness. Our continued ability to incur debt and operate our business is subject to compliance with the covenants in our debt instruments, which limit operational flexibility. Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under applicable debt instruments, even if payment obligations are satisfied. Financial and other covenants that limit our operational flexibility, as well as defaults resulting from a breach of any of these covenants in our debt instruments, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Excluding our 2006 senior unsecured notes, as of December 31, 2011, we had $89.6 million in variable interest rate debt and $39.6 million at February 22, 2012, which constitutes 6.2% of our overall indebtedness and subjects us to interest rate volatility. We may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as the $125.0 million of interest rate swaps entered into in 2010 to fix the interest rate on our 2006 senior unsecured notes. However, even these hedging arrangements involve risk, including the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that these arrangements may result in higher interest rates than we would otherwise have. Moreover, no hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Dependence on our tenants for payments of rent and interest may adversely impact our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We expect to continue to qualify as a REIT and, accordingly, as a REIT operating in the healthcare industry, we are severely limited by current tax law with respect to our ability to operate or manage the businesses conducted in our facilities. Accordingly, we rely almost exclusively on rent payments from our tenants under leases or interest payments from operators under mortgage or other loans for cash with which to make distributions to our stockholders. We have no control over the success or failure of these tenants’ businesses. Significant adverse changes in the operations of our facilities (as was the case with the previous tenant of our River Oaks facility), or the financial condition of our tenants, operators or guarantors, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to collect rent and interest payments and, accordingly, on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Facility management by our tenants and their compliance with state and federal healthcare and other laws could have a material impact on our tenants’ operating and financial condition and, in turn, their ability to pay rent and interest to us. It may be costly to replace defaulting tenants and we may not be able to replace defaulting tenants with suitable replacements on suitable terms. Failure on the part of a tenant to comply materially with the terms of a lease could give us the right to terminate our lease with that tenant, repossess the applicable facility, cross default certain other leases and loans with that tenant and enforce the payment obligations under the lease. The process of terminating a lease with a defaulting tenant and repossessing the applicable facility may be costly and require a disproportionate amount of management’s attention. In addition, defaulting tenants or their affiliates may initiate litigation in connection with a lease termination or repossession against us or our subsidiaries. If a tenant-operator defaults and we choose to terminate our lease, we then are required to find another tenant-operator. The transfer of most types of healthcare facilities is highly regulated, which may result in delays and increased costs in locating a suitable replacement tenant. The sale or lease of these properties to entities other than healthcare operators may be difficult due to the added cost and time of refitting the properties. If we are unable to re-let the properties to healthcare operators, we may be forced to sell the properties at a loss due to the repositioning expenses likely to be incurred by non-healthcare purchasers. Alternatively, we may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the facility to other uses. There can be no assurance that we would be able to find another tenant in a timely fashion, or at all, or that, if another tenant were found, we would be able to enter into a new lease on favorable terms. Defaults by our tenants (such as with the former tenant of our River Oaks facility and the costs we have incurred to maintain and re-develop the facility) under our leases may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements It may be costly to find new tenants when lease terms end and we may not be able to replace such tenants with suitable replacements on suitable terms. Failure on the part of a tenant to renew or extend the lease at the end of its fixed term on one of our facilities could result in us having to search for, negotiate with and execute new lease agreements. The process of finding and negotiating with a new tenant along with costs (such as maintenance, property taxes, utilities, etc.) that we will incur while the facility is untenanted may be costly and require a disproportionate amount of management’s attention. There can be no assurance that we would be able to find another tenant in a timely fashion, or at all, or that, if another tenant were found, we would be able to enter into a new lease on favorable terms. If we are unable to re-let the properties to healthcare operators, we may be forced to sell the properties at a loss due to the repositioning expenses likely to be incurred by non-healthcare purchasers. Alternatively, we may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the facility to other uses. Thus, the non-renewal or extension of leases may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our revenues are dependent upon our relationship with, and success of, Prime and Ernest. As of December 31, 2011, our real estate portfolio included 62 healthcare properties in 21 states of which 55 facilities are leased to 20 hospital operating companies and two of the investments are in the form of mortgage loans. Affiliates of Prime leased or mortgaged 12 facilities, representing 25.3% of our total assets as of December 31, 2011. Total revenue from Prime was $43.1 million, or 30.1% of our total revenue from continuing operations in the year ended December 31, 2011. Our relationship with Prime, and its financial performance and resulting ability to satisfy its lease and loan obligations to us are material to our financial results and our ability to service our debt and make distributions to our stockholders. We are dependent upon the ability of Prime to make rent and loan payments to us, and their failure or delay to meet these obligations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For additional discussion of risks relating to our tenants’ operations and obligations to comply with applicable industry laws, rules and regulations, see “Risks Relating to the Healthcare Industry” below. After giving effect to the Ernest Acquisition, as of December 31, 2011, our portfolio would have consisted of 78 properties in 24 states of which 67 facilities were leased to 21 tenants, one was not under lease as it was under re-development, four were under development, and the remaining assets were in the form of first mortgage loans to two operators. Post the Ernest Acquisition, Prime and Ernest will represent are two largest tenants. At December 31, 2011, and after giving effect to the Ernest Acquisition, our investment in Prime and Ernest would have represented 19.4% and 18.8% of our total assets, respectively. The bankruptcy or insolvency of our tenants or investees could harm our operating results and financial condition. Some of our tenants/investees are, and some of our prospective tenants/investees may be, newly organized, have limited or no operating history and may be dependent on loans from us to acquire the facility’s operations and for initial working capital. Any bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of our tenants/investees could bar us from collecting pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or their property, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from the bankruptcy court. A tenant bankruptcy can be expected to delay our efforts to collect past due balances under our leases and loans, and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. If a lease is assumed by a tenant in bankruptcy, we expect that all pre-bankruptcy balances due under the lease would be paid to us in full. However, if a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. Any secured claims we have against our tenants may only be paid to the extent of the value of the collateral, which may not cover any or all of our losses. Any unsecured claim (such as our equity interests in our tenants) we hold against a bankrupt entity may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. We may recover none or substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims, which would harm our financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our business is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete successfully. We compete for development opportunities and opportunities to purchase healthcare facilities with, among others: • private investors; • healthcare providers, including physicians; • other REITs; • real estate developers; • financial institutions; and • other lenders. Many of these competitors may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and may have better relationships with lenders and sellers. Competition for healthcare facilities from competitors may adversely affect our ability to acquire or develop healthcare facilities and the prices we pay for those facilities. If we are unable to acquire or develop facilities or if we pay too much for facilities, our revenue and earnings growth and financial return could be materially adversely affected. Certain of our facilities and additional facilities we may acquire or develop will face competition from other nearby facilities that provide services comparable to those offered at our facilities and additional facilities we may acquire or develop. Some of those facilities are owned by governmental agencies and supported by tax revenues, and others are owned by tax-exempt corporations and may be supported to a large extent by endowments and charitable contributions. Those types of support are not available to our facilities and additional facilities we may acquire or develop. In addition, competing healthcare facilities located in the areas served by our facilities and additional facilities we may acquire or develop may provide healthcare services that are not available at our facilities and additional facilities we may acquire or develop. From time to time, referral sources, including physicians and managed care organizations, may change the healthcare facilities to which they refer patients, which could adversely affect our tenants and thus our rental revenues, interest income, and/or our earnings from equity investments. Most of our current tenants have, and prospective tenants may have, an option to purchase the facilities we lease to them which could disrupt our operations. Most of our current tenants have, and some prospective tenants will have, the option to purchase the facilities we lease to them. There is no assurance that the formulas we have developed for setting the purchase price will yield a fair market value purchase price. In the event our tenants and prospective tenants determine to purchase the facilities they lease either during the lease term or after their expiration, the timing of those purchases will be outside of our control and we may not be able to re-invest the capital on as favorable terms, or at all. Our inability to effectively manage the turn-over of our facilities could materially adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and our results of operations. We have 49 leased properties that are subject to purchase options as of December 31, 2011. For 34 of these properties, the purchase option generally allows the lessee to purchase the real estate at the end of the lease term, as long as no default has occurred, at a price equivalent to the greater of (i) fair market value or (ii) our purchase price (increased, in some cases, by a certain annual rate of return from lease commencement date). The lease agreements provide for an appraisal process to determine fair market value. For 10 of these properties, the purchase option generally allows the lessee to purchase the real estate at the end of the lease term, as long as no default has occurred, at our purchase price (increased, in some cases, by a certain annual rate of return from lease commencement date). For the remaining five leases, the purchase options approximate fair value. At December 31, 2011, none of our leases contained any bargain purchase options. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In certain circumstances, a prospective purchaser of our hospital real estate may be deemed to be subject to Anti-Kickback and Stark statutes, which are described on pages 8 and 9 of this 2011 Form 10-K. In such event, it may not be practicable for us to sell property to such prospective purchasers at prices other than fair market value. We may not be able to adapt our management and operational systems to manage the net-leased facilities we have acquired and are developing or those that we may acquire or develop in the future without unanticipated disruption or expense. There is no assurance that we will be able to adapt our management, administrative, accounting and operational systems, or hire and retain sufficient operational staff, to manage the facilities we have acquired and those that we may acquire or develop. Our failure to successfully manage our current portfolio of facilities or any future acquisitions or developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We depend on key personnel, the loss of any one of whom may threaten our ability to operate our business successfully. We depend on the services of Edward K. Aldag, Jr., R. Steven Hamner, and Emmett E. McLean to carry out our business and investment strategy. If we were to lose any of these executive officers, it may be more difficult for us to locate attractive acquisition targets, complete our acquisitions and manage the facilities that we have acquired or developed. Additionally, as we expand, we will continue to need to attract and retain additional qualified officers and employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares at or above your purchase price. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or distributions; • changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates or publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry; • increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our shares of common stock to demand a higher yield; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • actions by institutional stockholders; • local conditions such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, rehabilitation hospitals, long-term acute care hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, medical office buildings, specialty hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, regional and community hospitals, women’s and children’s hospitals and other single-discipline facilities; 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • speculation in the press or investment community; and • general market and economic conditions. Future sales of common stock may have adverse effects on our stock price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of common stock, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We may issue from time to time additional common stock or units of our operating partnership in connection with the acquisition of facilities and we may grant additional demand or piggyback registration rights in connection with these issuances. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock or the perception that these sales could occur may adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through a sale of additional equity securities. An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our securities is our distribution rate as a percentage of our price per share of common stock, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may desire a higher distribution or interest rate on our securities or seek securities paying higher distributions or interest. The market price of our common stock likely will be based primarily on the earnings that we derive from rental and interest income with respect to our facilities and our related distributions to stockholders, and not from the underlying appraised value of the facilities themselves. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions can affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on our variable-rate debt, thereby adversely affecting cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and make distributions. RISKS RELATING TO REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS Our real estate and mortgage investments are and are expected to continue to be concentrated in a single industry segment, making us more vulnerable economically than if our investments were more diversified. We have acquired and have developed and have made mortgage investments in and expect to continue acquiring and developing and making mortgage investments in healthcare facilities. We are subject to risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate. The risks resulting from a lack of diversification become even greater as a result of our business strategy to invest solely in healthcare facilities. A downturn in the real estate industry could materially adversely affect the value of our facilities. A downturn in the healthcare industry could negatively affect our tenants’ ability to make lease or loan payments to us and, consequently, our ability to meet debt service obligations or make distributions to our stockholders. These adverse effects could be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments outside of real estate or outside of healthcare facilities. Our facilities may not have efficient alternative uses, which could impede our ability to find replacement tenants in the event of termination or default under our leases. All of the facilities in our current portfolio are and all of the facilities we expect to acquire or develop in the future will be net-leased healthcare facilities. If we or our tenants terminate the leases for these facilities or if these tenants lose their regulatory authority to operate these facilities, we may not be able to locate suitable replacement tenants to lease the facilities for their specialized uses. Alternatively, we may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the facilities to other uses. Any loss of revenues or additional capital expenditures occurring as a result could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could hinder our ability to meet debt service obligations or make distributions to our stockholders. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our facilities and harm our financial condition. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Additionally, the real estate market is affected by many factors beyond our control, including adverse changes in global, national, and local economic and market conditions and the availability, costs and terms of financing. Our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our facilities in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any facility that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. Our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Development and construction risks could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We have developed and constructed facilities in the past and are currently developing and re-developing five facilities. We will develop additional facilities in the future as opportunities present themselves. Our development and related construction activities may subject us to the following risks: • we may have to compete for suitable development sites; • our ability to complete construction is dependent on there being no title, environmental or other legal proceedings arising during construction; • we may be subject to delays due to weather conditions, strikes and other contingencies beyond our control; • we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy healthcare regulatory and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs, delays in construction, or our abandonment of these projects; • we may incur construction costs for a facility which exceed our original estimates due to increased costs for materials or labor or other costs that we did not anticipate; and • we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities. We expect to fund our development projects over time. The time frame required for development and construction of these facilities means that we may have to wait years for a significant cash return. In addition, our tenants may not be able to obtain managed care provider contracts in a timely manner or at all. Finally, there is no assurance that future development projects will occur without delays and cost overruns. Risks associated with our development projects may reduce anticipated rental revenue which could affect the timing of, and our ability to make, distributions to our stockholders. We may be subject to risks arising from future acquisitions of healthcare properties. We may be subject to risks in connection with our acquisition of healthcare properties, including without limitation the following: • we may have no previous business experience with the tenants at the facilities acquired, and we may face difficulties in managing them; • underperformance of the acquired facilities due to various factors, including unfavorable terms and conditions of the existing lease agreements relating to the facilities, disruptions caused by the management of our tenants or changes in economic conditions; • diversion of our management’s attention away from other business concerns; • exposure to any undisclosed or unknown potential liabilities relating to the acquired facilities; and • potential underinsured losses on the acquired facilities. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage the new properties without encountering difficulties or that any such difficulties will not have a material adverse effect on us. Our facilities may not achieve expected results or we may be limited in our ability to finance future acquisitions, which may harm our financial condition and operating results and our ability to make the distributions to our stockholders required to maintain our REIT status. Acquisitions and developments entail risks that investments will fail to perform in accordance with expectations and that estimates of the costs of improvements necessary to acquire and develop facilities will prove inaccurate, as well as general investment risks associated with any new real estate investment. Newly-developed or newly-renovated facilities may not have operating histories that are helpful in making objective pricing decisions. The purchase prices of these facilities will be based in part upon projections by management as to the expected operating results of the facilities, subjecting us to risks that these facilities may not achieve anticipated operating results or may not achieve these results within anticipated time frames. We anticipate that future acquisitions and developments will largely be financed through externally generated funds such as borrowings under credit facilities and other secured and unsecured debt financing and from issuances of equity securities. Because we must distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gain, each year to maintain our qualification as a REIT, our ability to rely upon income from operations or cash flow from operations to finance our growth and acquisition activities will be limited. If our facilities do not achieve expected results and generate ample cash flows from operations or if we are unable to obtain funds from borrowings or the capital markets to finance our acquisition and development activities, amounts available for distribution to stockholders could be adversely affected and we could be required to reduce distributions, thereby jeopardizing our ability to maintain our status as a REIT. If we suffer losses that are not covered by insurance or that are in excess of our insurance coverage limits, we could lose investment capital and anticipated profits. Our leases generally require our tenants to carry property, general liability, professional liability, loss of earnings, all risk and extended coverage insurance in amounts sufficient to permit the replacement of the facility in the event of a total loss, subject to applicable deductibles. For those properties not currently under lease, we carry such insurance. In addition, we carry loss of earnings coverage on all of our properties as a contingent measure in case our tenant’s coverage is not sufficient or other reasons. However, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and acts of terrorism, which may be uninsurable or not insurable at a price we or our tenants can afford. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it impracticable to use insurance proceeds to replace a facility after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the affected facility. If any of these or similar events occur, it may reduce our return from the facility and the value of our investment. Our capital expenditures for facility renovation may be greater than anticipated and may adversely impact rent payments by our tenants and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Facilities, particularly those that consist of older structures, have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including periodic replacement of fixtures and fixed equipment. Although our leases require our tenants to be primarily responsible for the cost of such expenditures, renovation of facilities involves certain risks, including the possibility of environmental problems, regulatory requirements, construction cost overruns and delays, uncertainties as to market demand or deterioration in market demand after commencement of renovation and the emergence of unanticipated competition from other facilities. All of these factors could adversely impact rent and loan payments by our tenants, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations along with our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements All of our healthcare facilities are subject to property taxes that may increase in the future and adversely affect our business. Our facilities are subject to real and personal property taxes that may increase as property tax rates change and as the facilities are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. Our leases generally provide that the property taxes are charged to our tenants as an expense related to the facilities that they occupy. As the owner of the facilities, however, we are ultimately responsible for payment of the taxes to the government. If property taxes increase, our tenants may be unable to make the required tax payments, ultimately requiring us to pay the taxes. If we incur these tax liabilities, our ability to make expected distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. In addition, if such taxes increase on properties in which we have an equity interest in the tenant, our return on investment maybe negatively effected. As the owner and lessor of real estate, we are subject to risks under environmental laws, the cost of compliance with which and any violation of which could materially adversely affect us. Our operating expenses could be higher than anticipated due to the cost of complying with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. Various environmental laws may impose liability on the current or prior owner or operator of real property for removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances. Current or prior owners or operators may also be liable for government fines and damages for injuries to persons, natural resources and adjacent property. These environmental laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or disposal of the hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of complying with environmental laws could materially adversely affect amounts available for distribution to our stockholders and could exceed the value of all of our facilities. In addition, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure of our tenants to properly manage, dispose of or remediate such substances, including medical waste generated by physicians and our other healthcare tenants, may adversely affect our tenants or our ability to use, sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, could reduce our revenue and our financing ability. We have obtained Phase I environmental assessments on all facilities we have acquired or developed or on which we have made mortgage loans, and intend to obtain on all future facilities we acquire. However, even if the Phase I environmental assessment reports do not reveal any material environmental contamination, it is possible that material environmental contamination and liabilities may exist of which we are unaware. Although the leases for our facilities and our mortgage loans generally require our operators to comply with laws and regulations governing their operations, including the disposal of medical waste, and to indemnify us for certain environmental liabilities, the scope of their obligations may be limited. We cannot assure you that our tenants would be able to fulfill their indemnification obligations and, therefore, any material violation of environmental laws could have a material adverse affect on us. In addition, environmental laws are constantly evolving, and changes in laws, regulations or policies, or changes in interpretations of the foregoing, could create liabilities where none exist today. Our interests in facilities through ground leases expose us to the loss of the facility upon breach or termination of the ground lease and may limit our use of the facility. We have acquired interests in three of our facilities, at least in part, by acquiring leasehold interests in the land on which the facility is located rather than an ownership interest in the property, and we may acquire additional facilities in the future through ground leases. As lessee under ground leases, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination, or an earlier breach by us, of the ground lease. Ground leases may also restrict our use of facilities. Our current ground lease for the facility in San Antonio limits use of the property to operation of a comprehensive rehabilitation hospital, medical research and education and other medical uses and uses reasonably incidental thereto. These restrictions and any similar future restrictions in ground leases will limit our flexibility in renting the facility and may impede our ability to sell the property. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. We are exposed to the risk that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. We could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. In addition, we might be exposed to undisclosed and unknown liabilities related to any acquired properties. If we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. Moreover, if we issue equity securities or incur additional debt, or both, to finance future acquisitions, it may reduce our per share financial results. These costs may negatively affect our results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO THE HEALTHCARE INDUSTRY Reductions in reimbursement from third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, could adversely affect the profitability of our tenants and hinder their ability to make rent payments to us. Sources of revenue for our tenants and operators may include the Medicare and Medicaid programs, private insurance carriers and health maintenance organizations, among others. Efforts by such payors to reduce healthcare costs will likely continue, which may result in reductions or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants. In addition, the failure of any of our tenants to comply with various laws and regulations could jeopardize their ability to continue participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored payment programs. The healthcare industry continues to face various challenges, including increased government and private payor pressure on healthcare providers to control or reduce costs. We believe that our tenants will continue to experience a shift in payor mix away from fee-for-service payors, resulting in an increase in the percentage of revenues attributable to managed care payors, government payors and general industry trends that include pressures to control healthcare costs. Pressures to control healthcare costs and a shift away from traditional health insurance reimbursement have resulted in an increase in the number of patients whose healthcare coverage is provided under managed care plans, such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations. In addition, due to the aging of the population and the expansion of governmental payor programs, we anticipate that there will be a marked increase in the number of patients relying on healthcare coverage provided by governmental payors. These changes could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of some or all of our tenants, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In instances where we own a minority interest in our tenants’ operations, in addition to the effect on these tenants’ ability to meet their financial obligations to us, our ownership and investment interests may also be negatively impacted. Over the past several years, CMS has increased its attention on reimbursement for LTACHs and IRFs, with CMS imposing regulatory restrictions on LTACH and IRF reimbursement. A significant number of our tenants operate LTACHs and IRFs. We expect that CMS will continue to explore implementing other restrictions on LTACH and IRF reimbursement, and possibly develop more restrictive facility and patient level criteria for these types of facilities. These changes could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of some of our tenants, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In instances where we own a minority interest in our tenant’s operations, in addition to the effect on these tenants’ ability to meet their financial obligations to us, our ownership and investment interests may also be negatively impacted. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and loss of licensure or certification or failure to obtain licensure or certification could result in the inability of our tenants to make lease payments to us. The healthcare industry is highly regulated by federal, state and local laws (as discussed on pages 7-10), and is directly affected by federal conditions of participation, state licensing requirements, facility inspections, 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements state and federal reimbursement policies, regulations concerning capital and other expenditures, certification requirements and other such laws, regulations and rules. Licensed health care facilities must comply with minimum health and safety standards and are subject to survey and inspection by state and federal agencies and their agents or affiliates, including the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the Joint Commission, and state departments of health. CMS develops Conditions of Participation and Conditions for Coverage that health care organizations must meet in order to begin and continue participating in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These minimum health and safety standards are aimed at improving quality and protecting the health and safety of beneficiaries. There are several common criteria that exist across health entities. Examples of common conditions include: a governing body responsible for effectively governing affairs of the organization, a quality assurance program to evaluate entity-wide patient care, medical record service responsible for medical records, a utilization review of the services furnished by the organization and its staff, and a facility constructed, arranged and maintained according to a life safety code that ensures patient safety and the deliverance of services appropriate to the needs of the community. As an example, the Medicare program contains specific requirements with respect to the maintenance of medical records. Medical records must be maintained for every individual who is evaluated or treated at a hospital. Medical records must be accurately written, promptly completed, properly filed and retained, and accessible. Medicare surveyors may conduct on site visits for a variety of reasons, including to investigate a patient complaint or to survey the hospital for compliance with Medicare requirements. In such instances, Medicare surveyors generally review a large sampling of patient charts. If a pattern of incomplete medical records is identified, the hospital’s Medicare certification could be jeopardized if a plan of correction is not completed. In order for a health care organization to continue receiving payment from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, it must comply with conditions of participation, or standards, as set forth in federal regulations. Further, many hospitals and other institutional providers are accredited by accrediting agencies such as the Joint Commission, a national health care accrediting organization. The Joint Commission was created to accredit healthcare organizations that meet its minimum health and safety standards. A national accrediting organization, such as the Joint Commission, enforces standards that meet or exceed such requirements. Surveyors for the Joint Commission, prior to the opening of a facility and approximately every three years thereafter, conduct on site surveys of facilities for compliance with a multitude of patient safety, treatment, and administrative requirements. Facilities may lose accreditation for failure to meet such requirements, which in turn may result in the loss of license or certification. For example, a facility may lose accreditation for failing to maintain proper medication in the operating room to treat potentially fatal reactions to anesthesia, or for failure to maintain safe and sanitary medical equipment. Finally, health care facility reimbursement practices and quality of care issues may result in loss of license or certification. For instance, the practice of “upcoding,” whereby services are billed for higher procedure codes than were actually performed, may lead to the revocation of a hospital’s license. An event involving poor quality of care, such as that which leads to the serious injury or death of a patient, may also result in loss of license or certification. The Services Employees International Union (“SEIU”) has alleged that our tenant, Prime may have upcoded for certain procedures and may be providing poor quality of care, in addition to allegations of delaying the transfer of out-of-network patients to their preferred medical provider once they have stabilized. Prime has addressed these allegations publicly and has provided clinical and other data to us refuting these allegations. Prime has also informed us that the SEIU is attempting to organize certain Prime employees. The failure of any tenant to comply with such laws, requirements, and regulations resulting in a loss of its license would affect its ability to continue its operation of the facility and would adversely affect the tenant’s ability to make lease and principal and interest payments to us. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. In instances where we own a minority interest in our tenants’ operations, in addition to the effects on these tenants’ ability to meet their financial obligations to us, our ownership and investment interests would also be negatively impacted. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, establishment of healthcare facilities and transfers of operations of healthcare facilities are subject to regulatory approvals not required for establishment, or transfers, of other types of commercial operations and real estate. Restrictions and delays in transferring the operations of healthcare facilities, in obtaining new third-party payor contracts, including Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements, and in receiving licensure and certification approval from appropriate state and federal agencies by new tenants, may affect our ability to terminate lease agreements, remove tenants that violate lease terms, and replace existing tenants with new tenants. Furthermore, these matters may affect a new tenant’s ability to obtain reimbursement for services rendered, which could adversely affect their ability to pay rent to us and to pay principal and interest on their loans from us. In instances where we own a minority interest in our tenants’ operations, in addition to the effect on these tenants’ ability to meet their financial obligations to us, our ownership and investment interests may also be negatively impacted. Our tenants are subject to fraud and abuse laws, the violation of which by a tenant may jeopardize the tenant’s ability to make lease and loan payments to us. As noted earlier, the federal government and numerous state governments have passed laws and regulations that attempt to eliminate healthcare fraud and abuse by prohibiting business arrangements that induce patient referrals or the ordering of specific ancillary services. In addition, federal and state governments have significantly increased investigation and enforcement activity to detect and eliminate fraud and abuse in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. It is anticipated that the trend toward increased investigation and enforcement activity in the areas of fraud and abuse and patient self-referrals, will continue in future years. Violations of these laws may result in the imposition of criminal and civil penalties, including possible exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs. Imposition of any of these penalties upon any of our tenants could jeopardize any tenant’s ability to operate a facility or to make lease and loan payments, thereby potentially adversely affecting us. In instances where we own a minority interest in our tenants’ operations, in addition to the effect on these tenants’ ability to meet their financial obligations to us, our ownership and investment interests may also be negatively impacted. Some of our tenants have accepted, and prospective tenants may accept, an assignment of the previous operator’s Medicare provider agreement. Such operators and other new-operator tenants that take assignment of Medicare provider agreements might be subject to federal or state regulatory, civil and criminal investigations of the previous owner’s operations and claims submissions. While we conduct due diligence in connection with the acquisition of such facilities, these types of issues may not be discovered prior to purchase. Adverse decisions, fines or recoupments might negatively impact our tenants’ financial condition, and in turn their ability to make lease and loan payments to us. In instances where we own a minority interest in our tenants’ operations, in addition to the effect on these tenants’ ability to meet their financial obligations to us, our ownership and investment interests may also be negatively impacted. Certain of our lease arrangements may be subject to fraud and abuse or physician self-referral laws. Although no such investment exists today, local physician investment in our operating partnership or our subsidiaries that own our facilities could subject our lease arrangements to scrutiny under fraud and abuse and physician self-referral laws. Under the Stark Law, and its implementing regulations, if our lease arrangements do not satisfy the requirements of an applicable exception, the ability of our tenants to bill for services provided to Medicare beneficiaries pursuant to referrals from physician investors could be adversely impacted and subject us and our tenants to fines, which could impact our tenants’ ability to make lease and loan payments to us. In instances where we own a minority interest in our tenants’ operations, in addition to the effect on these tenants’ ability to meet their financial obligations to us, our ownership and investment interests may also be negatively impacted. We intend to use our good faith efforts to structure our lease arrangements to comply with these laws; however, if we are unable to do so, this failure may restrict our ability to permit physician investment or, where such physicians do participate, may restrict the types of lease arrangements into which we may enter, including our ability to enter into percentage rent arrangements. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements State certificate of need laws may adversely affect our development of facilities and the operations of our tenants. Certain healthcare facilities in which we invest may also be subject to state laws which require regulatory approval in the form of a certificate of need prior to initiation of certain projects, including, but not limited to, the establishment of new or replacement facilities, the addition of beds, the addition or expansion of services and certain capital expenditures. State certificate of need laws are not uniform throughout the United States and are subject to change. We cannot predict the impact of state certificate of need laws on our development of facilities or the operations of our tenants. In addition, certificate of need laws often materially impact the ability of competitors to enter into the marketplace of our facilities. Finally, in limited circumstances, loss of state licensure or certification or closure of a facility could ultimately result in loss of authority to operate the facility and require re-licensure or new certificate of need authorization to re-institute operations. As a result, a portion of the value of the facility may be related to the limitation on new competitors. In the event of a change in the certificate of need laws, this value may markedly change. RISKS RELATING TO OUR ORGANIZATION AND STRUCTURE Maryland law and Medical Properties’ charter and bylaws contain provisions which may prevent or deter changes in management and third-party acquisition proposals that you may believe to be in your best interest, depress the price of Medical Properties common stock or cause dilution. Medical Properties’ charter contains ownership limitations that may restrict business combination opportunities, inhibit change of control transactions and reduce the value of Medical Properties’ common stock. To qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, no more than 50% in value of Medical Properties’ outstanding stock, after taking into account options to acquire stock, may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer persons during the last half of each taxable year. Medical Properties’ charter generally prohibits direct or indirect ownership by any person of more than 9.8% in value or in number, whichever is more restrictive, of outstanding shares of any class or series of our securities, including Medical Properties’ common stock. Generally, Medical Properties’ common stock owned by affiliated owners will be aggregated for purposes of the ownership limitation. The ownership limitation could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or other transaction in which holders of common stock might receive a premium for their common stock over the then-current market price or which such holders otherwise might believe to be in their best interests. The ownership limitation provisions also may make Medical Properties’ common stock an unsuitable investment vehicle for any person seeking to obtain, either alone or with others as a group, ownership of more than 9.8% of either the value or number of the outstanding shares of Medical Properties’ common stock. Medical Properties’ charter and bylaws contain provisions that may impede third-party acquisition proposals that may be in the best interests of our stockholders. Medical Properties’ charter and bylaws also provide that our directors may only be removed by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of Medical Properties common stock, that stockholders are required to give us advance notice of director nominations and new business to be conducted at our annual meetings of stockholders and that special meetings of stockholders can only be called by our president, our board of directors or the holders of at least 25% of stock entitled to vote at the meetings. These and other charter and bylaw provisions may delay or prevent a change of control or other transaction in which holders of Medical Properties’ common stock might receive a premium for their common stock over the then-current market price or which such holders otherwise might believe to be in their best interests. Our UPREIT structure may result in conflicts of interest between Medical Properties’ stockholders and the holders of our operating partnership units. We are organized as an UPREIT, which means that we hold our assets and conduct substantially all of our operations through an operating limited partnership, and may issue operating partnership units to third parties. Persons holding operating partnership units would have the right to vote on certain amendments to the 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements partnership agreement of our operating partnership, as well as on certain other matters. Persons holding these voting rights may exercise them in a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders. Circumstances may arise in the future, such as the sale or refinancing of one of our facilities, when the interests of limited partners in our operating partnership conflict with the interests of our stockholders. As the sole member of the general partner of the operating partnership, Medical Properties has fiduciary duties to the limited partners of the operating partnership that may conflict with fiduciary duties that Medical Properties’ officers and directors owe to its stockholders. These conflicts may result in decisions that are not in the best interest of our stockholders. We have made minority investments in the operators of certain of our healthcare facilities and the Ernest Acquisition Transactions contemplate that we will make a similar minority investment in the operator of the Ernest facilities; the cash flows from this investment are subject to more volatility than our cash flow from properties with traditional triple-net leasing structure. We make minority investments in the operators of certain of our healthcare facilities and the Ernest Acquisition Transactions contemplate that we will make a similar investment in the operator of the Ernest facilities utilizing the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 and taxable REIT subsidiary structure. The Ernest Acquisition Transactions, if consummated, will result in us having a minority investment in the operator of the Ernest facilities. Accordingly, the cash flows on this investment will be dependent upon the operator of the Ernest facilities and will vary from time to time depending on the success of the operator. As a result, the cash flow from this investment may be more volatile than cash flow from rent pursuant to the triple-net lease agreements with our tenants and interest income from loans to our tenants. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if the operator of the Ernest facilities fails to successfully operate the facilities efficiently, effectively and in a manner that is in our best interest. TAX RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR STATUS AS A REIT Loss of our tax status as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of Medical Properties’ common stock. We believe that we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the federal income tax laws commencing with our taxable year that began on April 6, 2004 and ended on December 31, 2004. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will be successful in operating so as to qualify as a REIT. At any time, new laws, regulations, interpretations or court decisions may change the federal tax laws relating to, or the federal income tax consequences of, qualification as a REIT. It is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our board of directors to revoke the REIT election, which it may do without stockholder approval. If we lose or revoke our REIT status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for distribution because: • we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; therefore we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates and we might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay any such tax; • we also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify. As a result of all these factors, a failure to achieve or a loss or revocation of our REIT status could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax. In order to qualify as a REIT, each year we must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any year are less than the sum of (1) 85% of our ordinary income for that year; (2) 95% of our capital gain net income for that year; and (3) 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Differences in timing between the recognition of income and the related cash receipts or the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow money or sell assets to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. In the future, we may borrow to pay distributions to our stockholders and the limited partners of our operating partnership. Any funds that we borrow would subject us to interest rate and other market risks. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego attractive business or investment opportunities. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of our assets may consist of securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries and no more than 25% of the value of our assets may consist of securities that are not qualifying assets under the test requiring that 75% of a REIT’s assets consist of real estate and other related assets. Further, a taxable REIT subsidiary may not directly or indirectly operate or manage a healthcare facility. For purposes of this definition a “healthcare facility” means a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility which extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients and which is operated by a service provider that is eligible for participation in the Medicare program under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act with respect to the facility. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may limit our flexibility in executing our business plan. Loans to our tenants could be recharacterized as equity, in which case our interest income from that tenant might not be qualifying income under the REIT rules and we could lose our REIT status. In connection with the acquisition in 2004 of certain Vibra facilities, one of our taxable REIT subsidiaries made a loan to Vibra in an aggregate amount of $41.4 million to acquire the operations at those Vibra Facilities. As of February 22, 2012, that loan had been reduced to $17.6 million. The acquisition loan bears interest at an annual rate of 10.25%. Our operating partnership loaned the funds to one of our taxable REIT subsidiaries to make these loans. The loan from our operating partnership to our taxable REIT subsidiaries bears interest at an annual rate of 9.25%. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries have made and will make loans to tenants to acquire operations or for other purposes. The Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, may take the position that certain loans to tenants should be treated as equity interests rather than debt, and that our interest income from such tenant should not be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. If the IRS were to successfully treat a loan to a particular tenant as equity interests, the tenant would be a “related party tenant” with respect to our company and the interest that we receive from the tenant would not be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. As a result, we could lose our REIT status. In addition, if the IRS were to successfully treat a particular loan as interests held by our operating partnership rather than by our taxable REIT subsidiaries, we could fail the 5% asset test, and if the IRS further successfully treated the loan as other than straight debt, we 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements could fail the 10% asset test with respect to such interest. As a result of the failure of either test, could lose our REIT status, which would subject us to corporate level income tax and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Transactions with taxable REIT subsidiaries may be subject to excise tax. We have historically entered into lease and other transactions with our taxable REIT subsidiaries and their subsidiaries and expect to continue to do so in the future, including in connection with the Ernest Acquisition. Under applicable rules, transactions such as leases between our taxable REIT subsidiaries and their parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s length basis may be subject to a 100% excise tax. While we believe that all of our transactions with our taxable REIT subsidiaries are at arm’s length, imposition of a 100% excise tax could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could adversely effect the trading price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 