Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The risks and uncertainties described below could individually or collectively have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, profitability or prospects. While these are not the only risks and uncertainties we face, we believe that the more significant risks and uncertainties are as follows: Risks Affecting the Business Acts of terrorism, political, governmental and social upheaval and threats of armed conflicts in or around various areas in which we operate could limit or disrupt markets and our operations, including disruptions resulting from the evacuation of personnel, cancellation of contracts or the loss of personnel. Acts of terrorism, political, governmental and social upheaval and threats of armed conflicts in or around various areas in which we operate could limit or disrupt markets and our operations, including disruptions resulting from the evacuation of personnel, cancellation of contracts or the loss of personnel, and may affect timing and collectibility of our accounts receivable. Such events may cause further disruption to financial and commercial markets and may generate greater political and economic instability in some of the geographic areas 13 in which we operate. In addition, any possible reprisals as a consequence of the wars and ongoing military action in the Middle East, such as acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial position. If our clients delay in paying or fail to pay amounts owed to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Accounts receivable represent the largest asset on our balance sheet. While we take steps to evaluate and manage the credit risks relating to our clients, economic downturns or other events can adversely affect the markets we serve and our clients ability to pay, which could reduce our ability to collect all amounts due from clients. In addition, the political unrest in countries in which we operate has impacted and may in the future impact our collections on accounts receivable. If our clients delay in paying or fail to pay us a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. We currently have existing contracts in Libya. Due to the political unrest in Libya that commenced in February 2011, we suspended our operations in and demobilized substantially all of our personnel from Libya. We are unable to predict when, or if, our work will resume in Libya, where we reopened our office in November 2011. At December 31, 2011, accounts receivable relating to the work performed prior to March 2011 under contracts in Libya was $59.4 million. We are unable to determine the effect this unrest will have on the collectability of the aforementioned accounts receivable. If we are unable to collect these accounts receivable, there could be a significant adverse impact on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. Unfavorable global economic conditions could adversely affect our business, liquidity and financial results. The markets that we serve are cyclical and subject to fluctuation based on general global economic conditions and other factors. Unfavorable global economic conditions, including disruption of financial markets in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, primarily by limiting our access to credit and disrupting our clients’ businesses. The reduction in financial institutions’ willingness or ability to lend has increased the cost of capital and reduced the availability of credit. Although we currently believe that the financial institutions with which we do business will be able to fulfill their commitments to us, there is no assurance that those institutions will be able or willing to continue to do so, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. The current European debt crisis and related European restructuring efforts may cause the value of European currencies, including the Euro and British pound sterling, to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of European clients and reducing the translated amounts of U.S. dollar revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2011, 19% of our total revenue was attributable to European clients. In addition, continuation or worsening of general market conditions in the United States, Europe or other national economies important to our businesses may adversely affect our clients’ level of spending, ability to obtain financing, and ability to make timely payments to us for our services, which could require us to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, negatively impact our days sales outstanding and adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot be certain that we will be able to raise capital or obtain debt financing to execute future acquisitions or to meet required capital needs. We are currently party to a revolving credit agreement to assist in funding working capital needs and for potential future acquisitions. This agreement contains certain financial covenants with respect to minimum net worth, total funded debt to EBITDA ratio, fixed charge coverage ratio, billed accounts receivable to senior secured indebtedness ratio, as well as other covenants. On March 6, 2012, we entered into a Second Amendment to Credit Agreement (the “Second Amendment”) with the administrative agent and lenders under our credit agreement. Under the Second Amendment, the lenders 14 under our revolving credit agreement agreed to waive prior defaults under the revolving credit agreement that we designated (the “Designated Defaults”). Pursuant to the Second Amendment, our total availability under the revolving credit agreement is $100,000,000, which includes a letter of credit sublimit of $35,000,000 (the “Aggregate Commitments”). Also, the Second Amendment extended the maturity date under our revolving credit agreement to March 31, 2014, subject to the requirement that we satisfy certain Required Commitment Reduction Conditions on or before March 31, 2013. If we do not satisfy the Required Commitment Reduction Conditions on or before March 31, 2013, our revolving credit agreement will mature on March 31, 2013. The Required Commitment Reduction Conditions require a permanent reduction in the Aggregate Commitments (as defined in the Second Amendment) to an amount equal or less than $75,000,000. The Second Amendment requires that 100% of the first $25,000,000 of net cash proceeds from any sale of our equity interests plus 50% of all such proceeds in excess of $50,000,000 plus 50% of the portion of the Net Libya Receivable (as defined in the Second Amendment), plus 50% of any payments or distributions to us from HillStone International LLC be applied to reduce the Aggregate Commitments, but not below $60,000,000. The Company is required to comply with certain financial covenants with respect to leverage ratio, fixed charge ratio, funded indebtedness to net worth ratio as well as other covenants. If our operating results are not as positive as we expect, that could cause us to be in violation of these covenants. In addition, our current revolving credit agreement may not provide us with sufficient credit to meet all of the future financial needs of our business. We may be unable to increase availability under our current revolving credit agreement or obtain alternative debt or equity financing on terms that would be acceptable to us, or at all. International operations and doing business with foreign governments expose us to legal, political, operational and economic risks in different countries and currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial results. Our international operations contributed 71.9%, 73.9% and 80.2% of our consulting fee revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • Lack of developed legal systems to enforce contractual rights; • Foreign governments may assert sovereign or other immunity if we seek to assert our contractual rights thus depriving us of any ability to seek redress against them; • Greater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations; • Differences in employment laws and practices which could expose us to liabilities for payroll taxes, pensions and other expenses; • Inadequate or failed internal controls, processes, people, and systems associated with foreign operations; • Increased logistical complexity; • Increased selling, general and administrative expenses associated with managing a larger and more global business; • Greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; • Currency exchange rate fluctuations; • Restrictions on the transfer of cash from certain foreign countries; • Imposition of governmental controls; • Political and economic instability; • Changes in U.S. and other national government policies affecting the markets for our services and our ability to do business with certain foreign governments or their political leaders; 15 • Conflict between U.S. and non-U.S. law; • Changes in regulatory practices, tariffs and taxes; • Less well established bankruptcy and insolvency procedures; • Potential non-compliance with a wide variety of non-U.S. laws and regulations; and • General economic, political and civil conditions in these foreign markets. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide and local anti-corruption laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide and local anti-corruption laws, including the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. The policies also are applicable to agents through which we do business in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-corruption laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Our continued expansion outside the U.S., including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations in the future. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business, subject us to fines, penalties and restrictions and otherwise result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our recently acquired businesses are subject to our internal policies. However, because our internal policies are more restrictive than some local laws or customs where we operate, we may be at an increased risk for violations while we train our new employees to comply with our internal policies. Our business sometimes requires our employees to travel to and work in high security risk countries, which may result in employee injury, repatriation costs or other unforeseen costs. Many of our employees often travel to and work in high security risk countries around the world that are undergoing or that may undergo political, social and economic upheavals resulting in war, civil unrest, criminal activity or acts of terrorism. For example, we have had and expect to have significant projects in the Middle East and North Africa, including in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, Libya, Egypt and Bahrain. As a result, we may be subject to costs related to employee injury, repatriation or other unforeseen circumstances. Further, circumstances in these countries could make it difficult or impossible to attract and retain qualified employees. Our inability to attract and retain qualified employees to work in these counties could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our business is sensitive to oil and gas prices, and fluctuations in oil and gas prices may negatively affect our business. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have been volatile and are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. Approximately 32% of our consulting fee revenue is derived from our operations in oil and gas producing countries in the Middle East and North Africa. A significant drop in oil or gas prices could lead to a slowdown in construction in these regions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 16 We depend on long-term government contracts, many of which are funded on an annual basis. If appropriations are not made in subsequent years of a multiple-year contract, we will not realize all of our potential revenue and profit from that project. A significant portion of our consulting fee revenue is derived from contracts with federal, state, regional, local and foreign governments. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, approximately 40.6%, 52.4% and 52.0%, respectively, of our consulting fee revenue were derived from such contracts. Most government contracts are subject to the continuing availability of legislative appropriation. Legislatures typically appropriate funds for a given program on a year-by-year basis, even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at the beginning of a program, the related contract is only partially funded, and additional funding is normally committed only as appropriations are made in each subsequent fiscal year. These appropriations and the timing of payment of appropriated amounts may be influenced by, among other things, the state of the economy, budgetary and other political issues affecting the particular government and its appropriations process, competing priorities for appropriation, the timing and amount of tax receipts and the overall level of government expenditures. If appropriations are not made in subsequent years on government contracts, then we will not realize all of our potential revenue and profit from those contracts. Because we depend on government contracts for a significant portion of our consulting fee revenue, our inability to win profitable government contracts could harm our operations and adversely affect our net earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2011, U.S. federal government contracts and state, regional and local government contracts contributed approximately 2.9% and 16.2%, respectively, of our total consulting fee revenue, and foreign government contracts contributed approximately 21.5% of our total consulting fee revenue. Our inability to win profitable government contracts could harm our operations and adversely affect our net earnings. Government contracts are typically awarded through a heavily regulated procurement process. Some government contracts are awarded to multiple competitors, causing increases in overall competition and pricing pressure. In turn, the competition and pricing pressure may require us to make sustained post-award efforts to reduce costs under these contracts. If we are not successful in reducing the amount of costs, our profitability on these contracts may be negatively impacted. Also, some of our federal government contracts require U.S. government security clearances. If we or certain of our personnel were to lose these security clearances, our ability to continue performance of these contracts or to win new contracts requiring a clearance may be negatively impacted. Our business is subject to numerous laws, regulations and restrictions, and failure to comply with these laws, regulations and restrictions could subject us to fines, penalties, suspension or debarment. Our contracts and operations are subject to various laws and regulations. Prime contracts with various agencies of the U.S. federal government, and subcontracts with other prime contractors, are subject to numerous procurement regulations, including Federal Acquisition Regulation and the False Claims Act. We could be subject to fines, penalties or debarment, or suspended from receiving additional contracts with all U.S. government agencies if any one agency finds that we are not in compliance with the appropriate regulations. Although a small percentage of our business is from U.S. government contracts, suspension or debarment from business with the U.S. federal government could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our international business subjects us to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to economic sanctions and other trade controls, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. Changes in regulations or political environments may affect our ability to conduct business in foreign markets including investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings. Failure by 17 us or our sales representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and regulations could result in certain liabilities and could possibly result in suspension or debarment from government contracts, which could have other repercussions and thus could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We depend on contracts that may be terminated by our clients on short notice, which may affect our ability to recognize all of our potential revenue and profit from the project. Substantially all of our contracts are subject to termination by the client either at its convenience or upon our default. If one of our clients terminates a contract at its convenience, then we typically are able to recover only costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination, which could prevent us from recognizing all of our potential revenue and profit from that contract. If one of our clients terminates the contract due to our default, we could be liable for excess costs incurred by the client in re-procuring services from another source, as well as other costs. Our contracts with governmental agencies are subject to audit, which could result in adjustments to reimbursable contract costs or, if we are charged with wrongdoing, possible temporary or permanent suspension from participating in government programs. Our books and records are subject to audit by the various governmental agencies we serve and by their representatives. These audits can result in adjustments to reimbursable contract costs and allocated overhead. In addition, if as a result of an audit, we or one of our subsidiaries is charged with wrongdoing or the government agency determines that we or one of our subsidiaries is otherwise no longer eligible for federal contracts, then we or, as applicable, that subsidiary, could be temporarily suspended or, in the event of convictions or civil judgments, could be prohibited from bidding on and receiving future government contracts for a period of time. Furthermore, as a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to an increased risk of investigations, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities, the results of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We submit change orders to our clients for work we perform beyond the scope of some of our contracts. If our clients do not approve these change orders, our net earnings could be adversely impacted. We typically submit change orders under some of our contracts for payment for work performed beyond the initial contractual requirements. The clients may not approve or may contest these change orders and we cannot assure you that these claims will be approved in whole, in part or at all. If these claims are not approved, our net earnings could be adversely impacted. Because our backlog of uncompleted projects under contract or awarded is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations, including the amount, if any, of future appropriations by the applicable contracting governmental agency, it may not be indicative of our future revenue and profits. At December 31, 2011, our backlog of uncompleted projects under contract or awarded was approximately $2.295 billion. Approximately $1.3 billion of our backlog is related to a contract entered into by our 51% owned HillStone subsidiary to supply building structural systems to TRAC Development Group Ltd. (“TRAC”) in connection with a major housing development in Iraq and $200 million is related to a contract we entered into to provide project management and construction management services to TRAC in connection with the development. These contracts are, among other things, contingent upon TRAC successfully obtaining financing and final government approvals for the development, and we have not yet realized any revenue from these contracts. The inability to obtain such financing or governmental approvals, or other unforeseen events, such as terrorist acts or natural disasters, could lead to us not realizing any revenue under these contracts. We cannot assure you that the backlog attributed to any of our uncompleted projects under contract will be realized as revenue or, if realized, will result in profits. 18 Many projects may remain in our backlog for an extended period of time because of the size or long-term nature of the contract. In addition, from time to time projects are scaled back or cancelled. These types of backlog reductions adversely affect the revenue and profit that we ultimately receive. Included in our backlog is the maximum amount of all indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity (“ID/IQ”), or task order, contracts, or a lesser amount if we do not reasonably expect to be issued task orders for the maximum amount of such contracts. A significant amount of our backlog is derived from ID/IQ contracts and we cannot provide any assurance that we will in fact be awarded the maximum amount of such contracts. We depend on the continued services of our executive officers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain the services of these individuals. We are dependent upon the efforts and service of our executive officers, particularly Irvin E. Richter, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and David L. Richter, our President and Chief Operating Officer, because of their knowledge, experience, skills and relationships with major clients and other members of our management team. Irvin E. Richter has served as our Chief Executive Officer since 1976. The loss of the services of our key executive officers, and particularly one or both of these individuals, for any reason, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our ability to grow and compete in our industry will be harmed if we do not retain the continued service of our key management, sales and technical personnel and identify, hire and retain additional qualified personnel. There is intense competition for qualified management, sales and technical personnel in the industry sectors in which we compete. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel who are necessary for the development of our business or to replace qualified personnel. Any growth we experience is expected to place increased demands on our resources and will likely require the addition of personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing personnel. Also, some of our personnel hold security clearance levels required to obtain government projects and, if we were to lose some or all of these personnel, they may be difficult to replace. Loss of the services of, or failure to recruit, key personnel could limit our ability to complete existing projects successfully and to compete for new projects. Our dependence on subcontractors, partners and specialists could adversely affect our business. We rely on third-party subcontractors as well as third-party strategic partners and specialists to complete our projects. To the extent that we cannot engage such subcontractors, partners or specialists or cannot engage them on a competitive basis, our ability to complete a project in a timely fashion or at a profit may be impaired. If we are unable to engage appropriate strategic partners or specialists in some instances, we could lose the ability to win some contracts. In addition, if a subcontractor or specialist is unable to deliver its services according to the negotiated terms for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition or over-commitment of its resources, we may be required to purchase the services from another source at a higher price. This may reduce the profit to be realized or result in a loss on a project for which the services were needed. If our partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to legal liability, loss of reputation or reduced profits. We sometimes enter into joint venture agreements and other contractual arrangements with outside partners to jointly bid on and execute a particular project. The success of these joint projects depends on the satisfactory performance of the contractual obligations of our partners. If any of our partners fails to satisfactorily perform its contractual obligations, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to complete the project. If we are unable to adequately address our partner’s performance issues, then our client could terminate the joint project, exposing us to legal liability, loss of reputation or reduced profits. 19 Our services expose us to significant risks of liability and our insurance policies may not provide adequate coverage. Our services involve significant risks of professional and other liabilities that may substantially exceed the fees that we derive from our services. In addition, we sometimes contractually assume liability under indemnification agreements. We cannot predict the magnitude of potential liabilities from the operation of our business. We currently maintain comprehensive general liability, umbrella and professional liability insurance policies. Professional liability policies are “claims made” policies. Thus, only claims made during the term of the policy are covered. Additionally, our insurance policies may not protect us against potential liability due to various exclusions and retentions. Partially or completely uninsured claims, if successful and of significant magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The project management and construction claims businesses are highly competitive and if we fail to compete effectively, we may miss new business opportunities or lose existing clients and our revenues and profitability may decline. The project management and construction claims industries are highly competitive. We compete for contracts, primarily on the basis of technical capability, with numerous entities, including design or engineering firms, general contractors, other “pure” construction management companies, other claims consulting firms, the “Big Four” and other accounting firms, management consulting firms and other entities. Compared to us, many of these competitors are larger, well-established companies that have broader geographic scope and greater financial and other resources. If we cannot compete effectively with our competitors, or if the costs of competing, including the costs of retaining and hiring professionals, become too expensive, our revenue growth and financial results may differ materially from our expectations. We have acquired and may continue to acquire businesses as strategic opportunities arise and may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions, or if we are unable to take advantage of strategic acquisition situations, our ability to expand our business may be slowed or curtailed. Over the past 15 years, we have acquired 20 businesses and our strategy is to continue to expand and diversify our operations with additional acquisitions as strategic opportunities arise. If the competition for acquisitions increases, or if the cost of acquiring businesses or assets becomes too expensive, the number of suitable acquisition opportunities may decline, the cost of making an acquisition may increase or we may be forced to agree to less advantageous acquisitions terms for the companies that we are able to acquire. Alternatively, at the time an acquisition opportunity presents itself, internal and external pressures (including, but not limited to, borrowing capacity under our credit facilities or the availability of alternative financing), may cause us to be unable to pursue or complete an acquisition. Our ability to grow our business, particularly through acquisitions, may depend on our ability to raise capital by selling equity or debt securities or obtaining additional debt financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing when we need it or on terms acceptable to us. Some of the financial, business and operational risks associated with acquisitions include: • Unexpected losses of key personnel or clients of the acquired business; • Difficulties arising from the increasing scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; • Difficulties in integrating diverse corporate cultures and management styles; • Increased costs to improve or coordinate managerial, operational, financial and administrative systems; • Dilutive issuances of equity securities; • Increased amortization expense of acquired intangible assets; • Changes in future market conditions could materially affect the determination of fair value and/or the impairment of goodwill acquired in connection with business combinations may result in future impairment charges; 20 • Undisclosed or unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business; • Diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and • Adverse effects on existing business relationships with clients. In addition, managing the growth of our operations will require us to continually increase and improve our operational, financial and human resources management and our internal systems and controls. If we are unable to manage growth effectively or to successfully integrate acquisitions or if we are unable to grow our business, that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may fail to realize expected values from our strategy of pursuing new business development opportunities. We intend to pursue new business opportunities focused primarily on providing development services in real estate infrastructure markets as part of our growth strategy. We can provide no assurance that new business development opportunities will be successful or that we will be able to sustain our growth through these new development opportunities. To the extent that these new business development opportunities are not feasible or are not profitable, we may fail to realize expected future growth. In particular, our 51%-owned subsidiary, HillStone intends to provide low-cost yet high durability housing primarily in developing countries. We expect to provide project management and construction management service in connection with the development projects contracted by HillStone. A contract entered into by HillStone to supply building structural systems to TRAC accounted for $1.3 billion and a contract we entered into to provide project management and construction management services to TRAC accounted for $200 million of the total backlog of $2.295 billion as of December 31, 2011. This contract is contingent upon TRAC successfully obtaining financing and final government approvals. We expect HillStone could be a significant contributor to our expected growth over the next several years. To the extent that HillStone or other opportunities we pursue do not perform to our expectations, we may fail to achieve a significant portion of our expected future growth. To date, HillStone has generated no revenue. We may be required to write-off all or a portion of the remaining value of our goodwill or other intangibles of companies we have acquired. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we review our intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment at least annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant non-cash impairment charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations and stockholders’ equity. Our effective tax rate may increase or decrease. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe that our tax estimates and tax positions are reasonable, they could be materially affected by many factors including the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation, the introduction of new tax accounting standards, legislation, regulations, and related interpretations, our global mix of earnings, the realizability of deferred tax assets and changes in uncertain tax positions. An increase or decrease in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 21 If our internal controls prove to be ineffective, it could impact our business and operating results. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of the inherent limitations of internal controls or otherwise, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. Our use of accounting estimates involves judgment and could impact our financial results. The application of generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions about certain items and future events that directly affect our reported financial condition. Our most critical accounting estimates are described in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, under “Critical Accounting Policies.” In addition, as discussed in Note 16, “Commitments and Contingencies,” we make certain estimates including decisions related to legal proceedings and reserves. These estimates and assumptions involve the use of judgment. As a result, actual financial results may differ. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price for our common stock could be volatile and could decline, resulting in a substantial or complete loss of your investment. The stock markets, including the New York Stock Exchange on which our common stock is listed, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be similarly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: • Our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • Actual or anticipated differences in our operating results; • Changes in our revenue or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • Publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts; • Additions and departures of key personnel; • Speculation in the press or investment community; • Actions by institutional stockholders; • Changes in accounting principles; • Terrorist acts and other events affecting political, economic or civil conditions in one or more foreign countries in which we operate; and • General market conditions, including factors unrelated to our performance. Future sales of our common and preferred stock may depress the price of our common stock. As of March 1, 2012, there were 38,503,403 shares of our common stock outstanding. An additional 3,821,541 shares of our common stock may be issued upon the exercise of options held by employees, management and directors. We also have the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with terms that are determined by our Board of Directors and additional options and warrants to purchase shares of 22 our common stock without stockholder approval. In addition, we recently registered for issuance of 20,000,000 shares and 8,000,000 shares with the SEC. These shares may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, or used in future acquisitions, respectively, subject to the restrictions of our credit agreement. Sales of a substantial number of these shares in the public market, or factors relating to the terms we may determine for our preferred stock, options or warrants, could decrease the market price of our common stock. In addition, the perception that such sales might occur may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Future issuances or sales of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Because we have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. We may retain future earnings, if any, for future operations, expansion and debt repayment and have no current plans to pay any cash dividends. Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends may be limited by covenants of any existing and future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including our revolving credit agreement. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. We are able to issue shares of preferred stock with greater rights than our common stock. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue one or more series of preferred stock from time to time without any action on the part of our stockholders. Our Board of Directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or other terms, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law could discourage potential acquisition proposals, could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company that our stockholders may consider favorable and could adversely affect the market value of our common stock. Provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law could discourage potential acquisition proposals, could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company that our stockholders may consider favorable and could adversely affect the market value of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions that: • Our Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; • Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes of service with staggered three-year terms. This means that only one class of directors will be elected at each annual meeting of stockholders, with the other classes continuing for the remainder of their respective terms; • Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; • Only our Board of Directors, Chairman of the Board, our Chief Executive Officer or the holders of a majority in amount of our capital stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote may call a special meeting of stockholders; this means that minority stockholders cannot force stockholder consideration of a proposal, including a proposal to replace our Board of Directors, by calling a special meeting of stockholders prior to such time authorized by our Board of Directors, Chairman of the Board, our Chief Executive Officer or the holders of a majority in amount of our capital stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote; 23 • Our bylaws require advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations; • Our bylaws limit the removal of directors and the filling of director vacancies; and • We will indemnify officers and directors against losses that may incur in connection with investigations and legal proceedings resulting from their services to us, which may include services in connection with takeover defense measures. These provisions may make it more difficult for stockholders to take specific corporate actions and could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between the Company and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. This provision is applicable to Hill and may have an anti-takeover effect that may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a stockholder might consider in the stockholder’s best interest. In general, Section 203 could delay for three years and impose conditions upon “business combinations” between an “interested shareholder” and Hill, unless prior approval by our Board of Directors is given. The term “business combination” is defined broadly to include mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in financial benefit to a stockholder. An “interested shareholder,” in general, would be a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or within three years, did own, 15% or more of a corporation’s voting stock. A small group of stockholders own a large quantity of our common stock thereby potentially exerting significant influence over the Company. As of December 31, 2011, Irvin E. Richter, David L. Richter and other members of the Richter family beneficially owned approximately 38% of our common stock. This concentration of ownership could significantly influence matters requiring stockholder approval and could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of the Company or other business combinations that might otherwise be beneficial to our other stockholders. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may impact the market price of our common stock. In addition, the interest of our significant stockholders may not always coincide with the interest of the Company’s other stockholders. In deciding how to vote on such matters, they may be influenced by interests that conflict with our other stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 