Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. One should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, before deciding whether to make an investment in our securities. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, or the value of our preferred stock, debt securities or warrants may decline, and one may lose all or part of their investment. Forward Looking Information Our annual report on Form l0-K for the year ended June 30, 2008, any of our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K, or any other oral or written statements made in press releases or otherwise by or on behalf of Prospect Capital Corporation may contain forward looking statements within the meaning of the Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which involve certain risks and uncertainties. Forward looking statements predict or describe our future operations, business plans, business and investment strategies and portfolio management and the performance of our investments and our investment management business. These forward looking statements are identified by their use of such terms and phrases as “intends,” “intend,” “intended,” “goal,” “estimate,” “estimates,” “expects,” “expect,” “expected,” “project,” “projected,” “projections,” “plans,” “seeks,” “anticipates,” “anticipated,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “will,” “designed to,” “foreseeable future,” “believe,” “believes” and “scheduled” and similar expressions. Our actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those anticipated. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date the statement was made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Our actual results may differ significantly from any results expressed or implied by these forward looking statements. Some, but not all, of the factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to: our future operating results; our business prospects and the prospects of our portfolio companies; 20 the impact of investments that we expect to make; our contractual arrangements and relationships with third parties; the dependence of our future success on the general economy and its impact on the industries in which we invest; the ability of our portfolio companies to achieve their objectives; difficulty in obtaining financing or raising capital, especially in the current credit and equity environment; the level and volatility of prevailing interest rates and credit spreads, magnified by the current turmoil in the credit markets; adverse developments in the availability of desirable loan and investment opportunities whether they are due to competition, regulation or otherwise; a compression of the yield on our investments and the cost of our liabilities, as well as the level of leverage available to us; our regulatory structure and tax treatment, including our ability to operate as a business development company and a regulated investment company; the adequacy of our cash resources and working capital; the timing of cash flows, if any, from the operations of our portfolio companies; the ability of our investment adviser to locate suitable investments for us and to monitor and administer our investments; authoritative generally accepted accounting principles or policy changes from such standard-setting bodies as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, Internal Revenue Service, the New York Stock Exchange, and other authorities that we are subject to, as well as their counterparts in any foreign jurisdictions where we might do business; and the risk factors set forth below. Risks Relating To Our Business Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to manage our future growth effectively. Prospect Capital Management has been registered as an investment adviser since March 31, 2004, and we have been organized as a closed-end investment company since April 13, 2004. As such, each entity is subject to the business risks and uncertainties associated with any young business enterprise, including the limited experience in managing or operating a business development company under the 1940 Act. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our ability to grow, which depends, in turn, on our Investment Adviser’s ability to continue to identify, analyze, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our Investment Adviser’s structuring of investments, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us and our access to financing on acceptable terms. As we grow, Prospect Capital Management need to continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. Failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon Prospect Capital Management’s key management personnel for our future success. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the senior management of Prospect Capital Management. We also depend, to a significant extent, on our Investment Adviser’s access to the investment professionals and the information and deal flow generated by these investment professionals in the course of their investment and portfolio management activities. The senior management team of the Investment 21 Advisor evaluates, negotiates, structures, closes, monitors and services our investments. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of the senior management team, particularly John F. Barry III and M. Grier Eliasek. The departure of any of the senior management team could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. In addition, we can offer no assurance that Prospect Capital Management will remain our investment adviser or that we will continue to have access to its investment professionals or its information and deal flow. We are a relatively new company with limited operating history. We were incorporated in April 2004 and have conducted investment operations since July 2004. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise, including the risk that we may not fully achieve our investment objective or be able to obtain sufficient debt financing for our portfolio and that the value of your investment in us could decline substantially or fall to zero. Dividends that we pay prior to being fully invested may be substantially lower than the dividends that we expect to pay when our portfolio is fully invested and levered. If we do not realize yields in excess of our expenses, we may incur operating losses and the market price of our shares may decline. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make in target companies. We compete with other business development companies, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks and commercial financing companies. Additionally, because competition for investment opportunities generally has increased among alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds, those entities have begun to invest in areas they have not traditionally invested in, including investments in middle-market companies. As a result of these new entrants, competition for investment opportunities at middle-market companies has intensified, a trend we expect to continue. Many of our existing and potential competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more or fuller relationships with borrowers and sponsors than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of existing and increasing competition and their ability to provide a total package solution, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. We do not seek to compete primarily based on the interest rates that we offer, and we believe that some of our competitors make loans with interest rates that are comparable to or lower than the rates we offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. If we match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit loss. Most of our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors and, as a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. A large percentage of our portfolio investments consist of securities of privately held or thinly traded public companies. Hence, market quotations are generally not readily available for determining the fair values of such investments. The determination of fair value, and thus the amount of unrealized losses we may incur in any year, is to a degree subjective, and the Investment Adviser has a conflict of interest in making the determination. We value these securities quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors based on input from our Investment Adviser, a third party independent valuation firm and our audit committee. Our Board of Directors utilizes the services of an independent valuation firm to aid it in determining the fair value of any securities. The types of factors that may be considered in determining the fair values of our investments include the nature and 22 realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow, current market interest rates and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, the valuations may fluctuate significantly over short periods of time due to changes in current market conditions. The determinations of fair value by our Board of Directors may differ materially from the values that would have been used if an active market and market quotations existed for these investments. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if the determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. Senior securities, including debt, exposes us to additional risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage. We currently use our revolving credit facility to leverage our portfolio and we expect in the future to borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks and other lenders and may securitize certain of our portfolio investments. With certain limited exceptions, as a BDC we are only allowed to borrow amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is at least 200% after such borrowing. The amount of leverage that we employ will depend on our Investment Adviser’s and our Board of Directors’ assessment of market conditions and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. There is no assurance that a leveraging strategy will be successful. Leverage involves risks and special considerations for stockholders, including: A likelihood of greater volatility in the net asset value and market price of our common stock; Diminished operating flexibility as a result of asset coverage or investment portfolio composition requirements that are more stringent than those imposed by the 1940 Act; The possibility that investments will have to be liquidated at less than full value or at inopportune times to comply with debt covenants or to pay interest or dividends on the leverage; Increased operating expenses due to the cost of leverage, including issuance and servicing costs; Convertible or exchangeable securities issued in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock; and Subordination to lenders’ superior claims on our assets as a result of which lenders will be able to receive proceeds available in the case of our liquidation before any proceeds are distributed to our stockholders. For example, the amount we may borrow under our revolving credit facility is determined, in part, by the fair value of our investments. If the fair value of our investments declines, we may be forced to sell investments at a loss to maintain compliance with our borrowing limits. Other debt facilities we may enter into in the future may contain similar provisions. Any such forced sales would reduce our net asset value and also make it difficult for the net asset value to recover. Our Investment Adviser and our Board of Directors in their best judgment nevertheless may determine to use leverage if they expect that the benefits to our stockholders of maintaining the leveraged position will outweigh the risks. Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net investment income. A significant portion of the debt investments we make bears interest at fixed rates and the value of these investments could be negatively affected by increases in market interest rates. In addition, as the interest rate on our revolving credit facility is at a variable rate based on an index, an increase in interest rates would make it more expensive to use debt to finance our investments. As a result, a significant increase in market interest rates could both reduce the value of our portfolio investments and increase our cost of capital, which would reduce our net investment income. 23 We need to raise additional capital to grow because we must distribute most of our income. We need additional capital to fund growth in our investments. A reduction in the availability of new capital could limit our ability to grow. We must distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to our shareholders to maintain our RIC status. As a result, such earnings are not available to fund investment originations. We have sought additional capital by borrowing from financial institutions and may issue debt securities or additional equity securities. If we fail to obtain funds from such sources or from other sources to fund our investments, we could be limited in our ability to grow, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. In addition, as a business development company, we are generally required to maintain a ratio of at least 200% of total assets to total borrowings, which may restrict our ability to borrow in certain circumstances. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We generally make investments in private companies. Substantially all of these securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or are otherwise less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we or our Investment Adviser has material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest or dividend rates payable on the debt or equity securities we acquire, the default rate on debt securities, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, the seasonality of the energy industry, weather patterns, changes in energy prices and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Potential conflicts of interest could impact our investment returns. Our executive officers and directors, and the executive officers of our Investment Adviser, Prospect Capital Management, may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or related lines of business as we do or of investment funds managed by our affiliates. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in our best interests or those of our stockholders. Nevertheless, it is possible that new investment opportunities that meet our investment objective may come to the attention of one of these entities in connection with another investment advisory client or program, and, if so, such opportunity might not be offered, or otherwise made available, to us. However, as an investment adviser, Prospect Capital Management has a fiduciary obligation to act in the best interests of its clients, including us. To that end, if Prospect Capital Management or its affiliates manage any additional investment vehicles or client accounts in the future, Prospect Capital Management will endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner over time so as not to discriminate unfairly against any client. If Prospect Capital Management chooses to establish another investment fund in the future, when the investment professionals of Prospect Capital Management identify an investment, they will have to choose which investment fund should make the investment. In the course of our investing activities, under the Investment Advisory Agreement we pay base management and incentive fees to Prospect Capital Management, and reimburse Prospect Capital Management for certain expenses it incurs. As a result of the Investment Advisory Agreement, there may be times when the senior management team of Prospect Capital Management has interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict. Prospect Capital Management receives a quarterly income incentive fee based, in part, on our pre-incentive fee net investment income, if any, for the immediately preceding calendar quarter. This income incentive fee is subject to a fixed quarterly hurdle rate before providing an income incentive fee return to the Investment Adviser. To the extent we or Prospect Capital Management are able to exert influence over our portfolio companies, the income 24 incentive fee may provide Prospect Capital Management with an incentive to induce our portfolio companies to accelerate or defer interest or other obligations owed to us from one calendar quarter to another. This fixed hurdle rate was determined when then current interest rates were relatively low on a historical basis. Thus, if interest rates rise, it would become easier for our investment income to exceed the hurdle rate and, as a result, more likely that our Investment Adviser will receive an income incentive fee than if interest rates on our investments remained constant or decreased. Subject to the receipt of any requisite shareholder approval under the 1940 Act, our Board of Directors may readjust the hurdle rate by amending the Investment Advisory Agreement. The income incentive fee payable by us is computed and paid on income that may include interest that has been accrued but not yet received in cash. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan that has a deferred interest feature, it is possible that interest accrued under such loan that has previously been included in the calculation of the income incentive fee will become uncollectible. If this happens, our Investment Adviser is not required to reimburse us for any such income incentive fee payments. If we do not have sufficient liquid assets to pay this incentive fee or distributions to stockholders on such accrued income, we may be required to liquidate assets in order to do so. This fee structure could give rise to a conflict of interest for our Investment Adviser to the extent that it may encourage the Investment Adviser to favor debt financings that provide for deferred interest, rather than current cash payments of interest. In addition, the amount of the Investment Adviser’s compensation under the incentive fee due, is affected in part, by the amount of unrealized depreciation accrued by us. We have entered into a royalty-free license agreement with Prospect Capital Management. Under this agreement, Prospect Capital Management agrees to grant us a non-exclusive license to use the name “Prospect Capital.” Under the license agreement, we have the right to use the “Prospect Capital” name for so long as Prospect Capital Management or one of its affiliates remains our Investment Adviser. In addition, we rent office space from Prospect Administration, an affiliate of Prospect Capital Management, and pay Prospect Administration our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by Prospect Administration in performing its obligations as Administrator under the administration agreement, including rent and our allocable portion of the costs of our chief financial officer and chief compliance officer and their respective staffs. This may create conflicts of interest that our Board of Directors monitors. Our incentive fee could induce Prospect Capital Management to make speculative investments. The incentive fee payable by us to Prospect Capital Management may create an incentive for our Investment Adviser to make investments on our behalf that are more speculative or involve more risk than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The way in which the incentive fee payable is determined (calculated as a percentage of the return on invested capital) may encourage the Investment Adviser to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. Increased use of leverage and this increased risk of replacement of that leverage at maturity, would increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor holders of our common stock. Similarly, because the Investment Adviser will receive an incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments, the Investment Adviser may invest more than would otherwise be appropriate in companies whose securities are likely to yield capital gains, as compared to income producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns. The incentive fee payable by us to Prospect Capital Management could create an incentive for our Investment Adviser to invest on our behalf in instruments, such as zero coupon bonds, that have a deferred interest feature. Under these investments, we would accrue interest income over the life of the investment but would not receive payments in cash on the investment until the end of the term. Our net investment income used to calculate the income incentive fee, however, includes accrued interest. For example, accrued interest, if any, on our investments in zero coupon bonds will be included in the calculation of our incentive fee, even though we will not receive any cash interest payments in respect of payment on the bond until its maturity date. Thus, a portion of this incentive fee would be based on income that we may not have yet received in cash. 25 Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state and federal levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, changes in these laws or regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our business. For additional information regarding the regulations we are subject to, see “Business – Regulation as a Business Development Company.” Risks Relating To Our Operation As A Business Development Company Our Investment Adviser and its senior management team have limited experience managing a business development company under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies. For example, business development companies are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets primarily in securities of privately held or thinly traded U.S. public companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. Our Investment Adviser’s and its senior management team’s limited experience in managing a portfolio of assets under such constraints may hinder their ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and, as a result, achieve our investment objective. In addition, our investment strategies differ in some ways from those of other investment funds that have been managed in the past by the investment professionals. A failure on our part to maintain our status as a business development company would significantly reduce our operating flexibility. If we do not continue to qualify as a business development company, we might be regulated as a registered closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act; our failure to qualify as a BDC would make us subject to additional regulatory requirements, which may significantly decrease our operating flexibility by limiting our ability to employ leverage. If we fail to qualify as a RIC, we will have to pay corporate-level taxes on our income, and our income available for distribution would be reduced. To maintain our qualification for federal income tax purposes as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code, and obtain RIC tax treatment, we must meet certain source of income, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The source of income requirement is satisfied if we derive at least 90% of our annual gross income from interest, dividends, payments with respect to certain securities loans, gains from the sale or other disposition of securities or options thereon or foreign currencies, or other income derived with respect to our business of investing in such securities or currencies, and net income from interests in “qualified publicly traded partnerships,” as defined in the Code. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to our stockholders on an annual basis. Because we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify for RIC tax treatment. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax. To maintain our qualification as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments are in private companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason or become subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution, and the actual amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a materially adverse effect on us and our stockholders. For additional information regarding asset coverage ratio and RIC requirements, see “Business – Tax Considerations” and “Business – Regulations as a Business Development Company”. 26 Regulations governing our operation as a business development company affect our ability to raise, and the way in which we raise, additional capital. We have incurred indebtedness under our revolving credit facility and, in the future, may issue preferred stock and/or borrow additional money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a BDC, to incur indebtedness or issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test, which would prohibit us from paying dividends and could prohibit us from qualifying as a RIC. If we cannot satisfy this test, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments or sell additional shares of common stock at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous in order to repay a portion of our indebtedness. In addition, issuance of additional common stock could dilute the percentage ownership of our current stockholders in us. As a BDC regulated under provisions of the 1940 Act, we are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below the current net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of our common stock in a rights offering to our stockholders or if (1) our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in the Company’s and our stockholders’ best interests, (2) our stockholders approve the sale of our common stock at a price that is less than the current net asset value, and (3) the price at which our common stock is to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of these securities (less any sales load). If our common stock trades at a discount to net asset value, this restriction could adversely affect our ability to raise capital. To generate cash for funding new investments, we pledged a substantial portion of our portfolio investments under our revolving credit facility. These assets are not available to secure other sources of funding or for securitization. Our ability to obtain additional secured or unsecured financing on attractive terms in the future is uncertain. Alternatively, we may securitize our future loans to generate cash for funding new investments. To securitize loans, we may create a wholly owned subsidiary and contribute a pool of loans to such subsidiary. This could include the sale of interests in the loans by the subsidiary on a non-recourse basis to purchasers who we would expect to be willing to accept a lower interest rate to invest in investment grade loan pools. We would retain a portion of the equity in the securitized pool of loans. An inability to successfully securitize our loan portfolio could limit our ability to grow our business and fully execute our business strategy, and could decrease our earnings, if any. Moreover, the successful securitization of our loan portfolio exposes us to a risk of loss for the equity we retain in the securitized pool of loans and might expose us to losses because the residual loans in which we do not sell interests may tend to be those that are riskier and more likely to generate losses. A successful securitization may also impose financial and operating covenants that restrict our business activities and may include limitations that could hinder our ability to finance additional loans and investments or to make the distributions required to maintain our status as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. The 1940 Act may also impose restrictions on the structure of any securitizations. Our common stock may trade at a discount to our net asset value per share. Common stock of BDCs, as closed-end investment companies, frequently trade at a discount to their current net asset value. Recently, our common stock has traded at a discount to our net asset value, adversely affecting our ability to raise capital. The risk that our common stock may continue to trade at a discount to our net asset value is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For federal income tax purposes, we include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, or payment-in-kind interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such original issue discount, which could be significant relative 27 to our overall investment activities, or increases in loan balances as a result of payment-in-kind arrangements, are included in our taxable income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in taxable income certain other amounts that we do not receive in cash. While we focus primarily on investments that will generate a current cash return, our investment portfolio currently includes, and we may continue to invest in, securities that do not pay some or all of their return in periodic current cash distributions. The income incentive fee payable by us is computed and paid on income that may include interest that has been accrued but not yet received in cash. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan that is structured to provide accrued interest, it is possible that accrued interest previously used in the calculation of the income incentive fee will become uncollectible. Since in some cases we may recognize taxable income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the tax requirement to distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to maintain RIC tax treatment. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. See “Business – Tax Considerations” and “Business – Regulation as a Business Development Company”. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from knowingly participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities is our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act and we are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits “joint” transactions with an affiliate, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our independent directors. If a person acquires more than 25% of our voting securities, we are prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such person, or entering into joint transactions with such person, absent the prior approval of the SEC. Risks Relating To Our Investments We may not realize gains or income from our investments. We seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation. However, the securities we invest in may not appreciate and, in fact, may decline in value, and the issuers of debt securities we invest in may default on interest and/or principal payments. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our investments, and any gains that we do realize may not be sufficient to offset any losses we experience. See “Business – Our Investment Objective and Policies”. Our portfolio is concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies in the energy industry, which subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations under any of the securities that we hold or if the energy industry experiences a downturn. As of June 30, 2008, we had invested in a number of companies in the energy and energy related industries. A consequence of this lack of diversification is that the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly and adversely affected if a small number of such investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Beyond our income tax diversification requirements, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments are concentrated in relatively few portfolio companies. In addition, to date we have concentrated on making investments in the energy industry. While we expect to be less focused on the energy and energy related industries in the future, we anticipate that we will continue to have significant holdings in the energy and energy related industries. As a result, a downturn in the energy industry could materially and adversely affect us. 28 The energy industry is subject to many risks. We have a significant concentration in the energy industry. Our definition of energy, as used in the context of the energy industry, is broad, and different sectors in the energy industry may be subject to variable risks and economic pressures. As a result, it is difficult to anticipate the impact of changing economic and political conditions on our portfolio companies and, as a result, our financial results. The revenues, income (or losses) and valuations of energy companies can fluctuate suddenly and dramatically due to any one or more of the following factors: Commodity Pricing Risk. Energy companies in general are directly affected by energy commodity prices, such as the market prices of crude oil, natural gas and wholesale electricity, especially for those that own the underlying energy commodity. In addition, the volatility of commodity prices can affect other energy companies due to the impact of prices on the volume of commodities transported, processed, stored or distributed and on the cost of fuel for power generation companies. The volatility of commodity prices can also affect energy companies’ ability to access the capital markets in light of market perception that their performance may be directly tied to commodity prices. Historically, energy commodity prices have been cyclical and exhibited significant volatility. Although we generally prefer risk controls, including appropriate commodity and other hedges, by certain of our portfolio companies, if available, some of our portfolio companies may not engage in hedging transactions to minimize their exposure to commodity price risk. For those companies that engage in such hedging transactions, they remain subject to market risks, including market liquidity and counterparty creditworthiness. In addition, such companies may also still have exposure to market prices if such companies do not produce volumes or other contractual obligations in accordance with such hedging contracts. Regulatory Risk. The profitability of energy companies could be adversely affected by changes in the regulatory environment. The businesses of energy companies are heavily regulated by federal, state and local governments in diverse ways, such as the way in which energy assets are constructed, maintained and operated and the prices energy companies may charge for their products and services. Such regulation can change over time in scope and intensity. For example, a particular by-product of an energy process may be declared hazardous by a regulatory agency, which can unexpectedly increase production costs. Moreover, many state and federal environmental laws provide for civil penalties as well as regulatory remediation, thus adding to the potential liability an energy company may face. In addition, the deregulation of energy markets and the unresolved regulatory issues related to some power markets such as California create uncertainty in the regulatory environment as rules and regulations may be adopted on a transitional basis. We cannot assure you that the deregulation of energy markets will continue and if it continues, whether its impact on energy companies’ profitability will be positive. Production Risk. The profitability of energy companies may be materially impacted by the volume of crude oil, natural gas or other energy commodities available for transporting, processing, storing, distributing or power generation. A significant decrease in the production of natural gas, crude oil, coal or other energy commodities, due to the decline of production from existing facilities, import supply disruption, depressed commodity prices, political events, OPEC actions or otherwise, could reduce revenue and operating income or increase operating costs of energy companies and, therefore, their ability to pay debt or dividends. Demand Risk. A sustained decline in demand for crude oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products and electricity could materially affect revenues and cash flows of energy companies. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand include a recession or other adverse economic conditions, an increase in the market price of the underlying commodity, higher taxes or other regulatory actions that increase costs, or a shift in consumer demand for such products. Depletion and Exploration Risk. A portion of any one energy company’s assets may be dedicated to natural gas, crude oil and/or coal reserves and other commodities that naturally deplete over time. Depletion could have a materially adverse impact on such company’s ability to maintain its revenue. Further, estimates of energy reserves may not be accurate and, even if accurate, reserves may not be fully utilized at reasonable costs. Exploration of energy resources, especially of oil and gas, is inherently risky and requires large amounts of capital. 29 Weather Risk. Unseasonable extreme weather patterns could result in significant volatility in demand for energy and power. In addition, hurricanes, storms, tornados, floods, rain, and other significant weather events could disrupt supply and other operations at our portfolio companies as well as customers or suppliers to such companies. This volatility may create fluctuations in earnings of energy companies. Operational Risk. Energy companies are subject to various operational risks, such as failed drilling or well development, unscheduled outages, underestimated cost projections, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses, failure to obtain the necessary permits to operate and failure of third-party contractors (for example, energy producers and shippers) to perform their contractual obligations. In addition, energy companies employ a variety of means of increasing cash flow, including increasing utilization of existing facilities, expanding operations through new construction, expanding operations through acquisitions, or securing additional long-term contracts. Thus, some energy companies may be subject to construction risk, acquisition risk or other risk factors arising from their specific business strategies. Competition Risk. The progress in deregulating energy markets has created more competition in the energy industry. This competition is reflected in risks associated with marketing and selling energy in the evolving energy market and a competitor’s development of a lower-cost energy or power source, or of a lower cost means of operations, and other risks arising from competition. Valuation Risk. Since mid-2001, excess power generation capacity in certain regions of the United States has caused substantial decreases in the market capitalization of many energy companies. While such prices have recovered to some extent, we can offer no assurance that such decreases in market capitalization will not recur, or that any future decreases in energy company valuations will be insubstantial or temporary in nature. Terrorism Risk. Since the September 11th attacks, the United States government has issued public warnings indicating that energy assets, specifically those related to pipeline infrastructure, production facilities and transmission and distribution facilities, might be specific targets of terrorist activity. The continued threat of terrorism and related military activity will likely increase volatility for prices of natural gas and oil and could affect the market for products and services of energy companies. In addition, any future terrorist attack or armed conflict in the United States or elsewhere may undermine economic conditions in the United States in general. Financing Risk. Some of our portfolio companies rely on the capital markets to raise money to pay their existing obligations. Their ability to access the capital markets on attractive terms or at all may be affected by any of the risks associated with energy companies described above, by general economic and market conditions or by other factors. This may in turn affect their ability to satisfy their obligations with us. Our investments in prospective portfolio companies may be risky and we could lose all or part of our investment. Some of our portfolio companies have relatively short or no operating histories. These companies are and will be subject to all of the business risk and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise, including the risk that these companies may not reach their investment objective and the value of our investment in them may decline substantially or fall to zero. In addition, investment in the middle market companies that we are targeting involves a number of other significant risks, including: these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of their securities or of any collateral with respect to any securities and a reduction in the likelihood of our realizing on any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; they may have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; 30 because many of these companies are privately held companies, public information is generally not available about these companies. As a result, we will depend on the ability of our Investment Adviser to obtain adequate information to evaluate these companies in making investment decisions. If our Investment Adviser is unable to uncover all material information about these companies, it may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments; they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a materially adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; they may have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in changing businesses with products subject to a risk of obsolescence and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; and they have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs. In addition, our executive officers, directors and our Investment Adviser could, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from proposed investments or from our investments in the portfolio companies. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. Our portfolio companies will generally be affected by the conditions and overall strength of the national, regional and local economies, including interest rate fluctuations, changes in the capital markets and changes in the prices of their primary commodities and products. These factors also impact the amount of residential, industrial and commercial growth in the energy industry. Additionally, these factors could adversely impact the customer base and customer collections of our portfolio companies. As a result, many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans or meet other obligations during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase, and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease, during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize a portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt or preferred equity, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize our debt or equity holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to those of other creditors. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We make investments in private companies. A portion of these investments may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale, transfer, pledge or other disposition or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, we face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a business entity to the extent that we or our investment adviser has or could be deemed to have material non-public information regarding such business entity. 31 We may have limited access to information about privately held companies in which we invest. We invest primarily in privately-held companies. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of our Investment Adviser’s investment professionals to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. These companies and their financial information are not subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules that govern public companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investment. We may not be in a position to control a portfolio investment when we are a debt or minority equity investor and its management may make decisions that could decrease the value of our investment. We make both debt and minority equity investments in portfolio companies. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. Our portfolio companies may incur debt or issue equity securities that rank equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We may invest in mezzanine debt and dividend-paying equity securities issued by our portfolio companies. Our portfolio companies usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt, or issue other equity securities, that rank equally with, or senior to, the securities in which we invest. By their terms, such instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of dividends, interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of securities ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying the senior security holders, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of securities ranking equally with securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other security holders in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. We may not be able to fully realize the value of the collateral securing our debt investments. Although a substantial amount of our debt investments are protected by holding security interests in the assets of the portfolio companies, we may not be able to fully realize the value of the collateral securing our investments due to one or more of the following factors: our debt investments are primarily made in the form of mezzanine loans, therefore our liens on the collateral, if any, are subordinated to those of the senior secured debt of the portfolio companies, if any. As a result, we may not be able to control remedies with respect to the collateral; the collateral may not be valuable enough to satisfy all of the obligations under our secured loan, particularly after giving effect to the repayment of secured debt of the portfolio company that ranks senior to our loan; bankruptcy laws may limit our ability to realize value from the collateral and may delay the realization process; our rights in the collateral may be adversely affected by the failure to perfect security interests in the collateral; the need to obtain regulatory and contractual consents could impair or impede how effectively the collateral would be liquidated and could affect the value received; and some or all of the collateral may be illiquid and may have no readily ascertainable market value. The liquidity and value of the collateral could be impaired as a result of changing economic conditions, competition, and other factors, including the availability of suitable buyers. 32 Our investments in foreign securities may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. Our investment strategy contemplates potential investments in securities of foreign companies. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. Although currently most of our investments are, and we expect that most of our investments will be, U.S. dollar-denominated, our investments that are denominated in a foreign currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. We may expose ourselves to risks if we engage in hedging transactions. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we can offer no assurance that such strategies will be effective. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transaction may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. The success of our hedging transactions depends on our ability to correctly predict movements, currencies and interest rates. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. The degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Our Board of Directors may change our operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse to us and could impair the value of our stockholders’ investment. Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive our current operating policies and our strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, financial condition, and value of our common stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively impact our ability to pay dividends and cause stockholders to lose all or part of their investment. 33 Risks Relating To Our Securities Investing in our securities may involve a high degree of risk. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies may be speculative and aggressive, and therefore, an investment in our shares may not be suitable for someone with low risk tolerance. The market price of our securities may fluctuate significantly. The market price and liquidity of the market for our securities may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include: significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of business development companies or other companies in the energy industry, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or business development companies; loss of RIC qualification; changes in earnings or variations in operating results; changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; departure of one or more of Prospect Capital Management’s key personnel; operating performance of companies comparable to us; changes in prevailing interest rates; litigation matters; general economic trends and other external factors; and loss of a major funding source. Sales of substantial amounts of our securities in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. As of August 22, 2008, we have 29,520,379 shares of common stock outstanding. Sales of substantial amounts of our securities or the availability of such securities for sale could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our securities. If this occurs and continues it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should we desire to do so. We may allocate the net proceeds from any offering in ways with which stockholders may not agree. We will have significant flexibility in investing the net proceeds of any offering of our common stock. We may use the net proceeds from the offering in ways with which stockholders may not agree or for investments other than those contemplated at the time of the offering, unless such change in the use of proceeds is subject to stockholders’ approval or prohibited by law. 34 There is a risk that you may not receive dividends or that our dividends may not grow over time. We have made and intend to continue to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow or require any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a business development company, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law and of our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Our charter and bylaws and the Maryland General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our stockholders or otherwise be in their best interest. Our charter provides for the classification of our Board of Directors into three classes of directors, serving staggered three-year terms, which may render a change of control or removal of our incumbent management more difficult. Furthermore, any and all vacancies on our Board of Directors will be filled generally only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors in office, even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum, and any director elected to fill a vacancy will serve for the remainder of the full term until a successor is elected and qualifies. Our Board of Directors is authorized to create and issue new series of shares, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of stock into one or more classes or series, including preferred stock and, without stockholder approval, to amend our charter to increase or decrease the number of shares of common stock that we have authority to issue, which could have the effect of diluting a stockholder’s ownership interest. Prior to the issuance of shares of common stock of each class or series, including any reclassified series, our Board of Directors is required by our governing documents to set the terms, preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption for each class or series of shares of stock. Our charter and bylaws also provide that our Board of Directors has the exclusive power to adopt, alter or repeal any provision of our bylaws, and to make new bylaws. The Maryland General Corporation Law also contains certain provisions that may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, such as: The Maryland Business Combination Act, which, subject to certain limitations, prohibits certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the common stock or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder and, thereafter, imposes special minimum price provisions and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and The Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, which provides that “control shares” of a Maryland corporation (defined as shares of common stock which, when aggregated with other shares of common stock controlled by the stockholder, entitles the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares of common stock. The provisions of the Maryland Business Combination Act will not apply, however, if our Board of Directors adopts a resolution that any business combination between us and any other person will be exempt from the provisions of the Maryland Business Combination Act. Although our Board of Directors has adopted such a resolution, there can be no assurance that this resolution will not be altered or repealed in whole or in part at any time. If the resolution is altered or repealed, the provisions of the Maryland Business Combination Act may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us. As permitted by Maryland law, our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions by any person of our common stock. Although our bylaws include such a provision, such a provision may also be amended or eliminated by our Board of Directors at any time in the future. 35 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable 