Item 1A. Risk Factors Any investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and all of the information contained in this report before deciding whether to purchase our common stock. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks if any of them actually occur. Our shares of common stock are not currently listed or quoted for trading on any national securities exchange or national quotation system. If and when our common stock is traded, the trading price could decline due to any of these risks, and an investor may lose all or part of his investment. Some of these factors have affected our financial condition and operating results in the past or are currently affecting our company. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face as described below and elsewhere in this report. With respect to this discussion, the terms, “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to China Architectural Engineering, Inc., and our 100%-owned subsidiary Full Art International, Ltd. (“Full Art”). RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATIONS Because we depend on governmental agencies for a significant portion of our revenue, our inability to win or renew government contracts could harm our operations and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Revenues from Chinese government contracts represented approximately 95% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. Our inability to win or renew Chinese government contracts could harm our operations and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Chinese government contracts are typically awarded through a regulated procurement process. Some Chinese government contracts are awarded to multiple competitors, causing increases in overall competition and pricing pressure. The competition and pricing pressure, in turn may require us to make sustained post-award efforts to reduce costs in order to realize revenues under these contracts. If we are not successful in reducing the amount of costs we anticipate, our profitability on these contracts will be negatively impacted. Finally, Chinese government clients can generally terminate or modify their contracts with us at their convenience. If we are unable to accurately estimate and control our contract costs and timelines, then we may incur losses on our contracts, which may result in decreases in our operating margins and in a significant reduction or elimination of our profits. If we do not control our contract costs, we may be unable to maintain positive operating margins or experience operating losses. We generally enter into three principal types of contracts with our clients: cost-plus-fee contracts, fixed-price contracts, and fixed-price contracts modified by incentive and penalty provisions. Approximately 90% of our sales are from fixed price contracts, including one percent that are modified by incentive and penalty provisions. The remaining 10% of our sales are originated from are cost-plus-fee contracts. Under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price regardless of what our actual costs will be. Consequently, we realize a profit on fixed-price contracts only if we control our costs and prevent cost over-runs on the contracts. Under fixed-price contracts modified by incentive and penalty provisions, we are paid a fixed price that may be increased or decreased based on incentive and provisions in our contracts. Under cost-plus-fee contracts, which may be subject to contract ceiling amounts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and fees, which may be fixed or performance-based. If our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or any applicable regulations, we may not be reimbursed for all our costs. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to estimate and control costs and/or project timelines, we may incur losses on our contracts, which may result in decreases in our operating margins and in a significant reduction or elimination of our profits. If we fail to timely complete, miss a required performance standard or otherwise fail to adequately perform on a project, then we may incur a loss on that project, which may affect our overall profitability. We may commit to a client that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. We may also commit that a project, when completed, will achieve specified performance standards. If the project is not completed by the scheduled date or subsequently fails to meet required performance standards, we may either incur significant additional costs or be held responsible for the costs incurred by the client to rectify damages due to late completion or failure to achieve the required performance standards. The uncertainty of the timing of a project can present difficulties in planning the amount of personnel needed for the project. If the project is delayed or canceled, we may bear the cost of an underutilized workforce that was dedicated to fulfilling the project. In addition, performance of projects can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including unavoidable delays from weather conditions, unavailability of vendor materials, changes in the project scope of services requested by clients or labor disruptions. In some cases, should we fail to meet required performance standards, we may also be subject to agreed-upon financial damages, which are determined by the contract. To the extent that these events occur, the total costs of the project could exceed our estimates and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, incur a loss on that project, which may affect our overall profitability. 12 Our use of the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting could result in reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenues and profits. A substantial portion of our revenues and profits are measured and recognized using the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting, which is discussed further in Note 2, “Summary Of Significant Accounting Policies” to our “Financial Statements.” Our use of this method results in recognition of revenues and profits ratably over the life of a contract, based generally on the proportion of costs incurred to date to total costs expected to be incurred for the entire project. The effect of revisions to revenues and estimated costs is recorded when the amounts are known or can be reasonably estimated. Such revisions could occur in any period and their effects could be material. Although we have historically made reasonably reliable estimates of the progress towards completion of long-term engineering, program and construction management or construction contracts in process, the uncertainties inherent in the estimating process make it possible for actual costs to vary materially from estimates, including reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenues and profits. Our future revenues depend on our ability to consistently bid and win new contracts and renew existing contracts and, therefore, our failure to effectively obtain future contracts could adversely affect our profitability. Our future revenues and overall results of operations require us to successfully bid on new contracts and renew existing contracts. Contract proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process, which is affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. If negative market conditions arise, or if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or the required governmental approval, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could adversely affect our profitability. Our results could be adversely impacted by product quality and performance. We manufacture or install products based on specific requirements of each of our customers. We believe that future orders of our products or services will depend on our ability to maintain the performance, reliability and quality standards required by our customers. If our products or services have performance, reliability or quality problems, we may experience delays in the collection of accounts receivables, higher manufacturing or installation costs, additional warranty and service expense, and reduced, cancelled or discontinued orders. Additionally, performance, reliability or quality claims from our customers, with or without merit, could result in costly and time-consuming litigation that could require significant time and attention of management and involve significant monetary damages. Continued price volatility and supply constraints in the steel and aluminum markets could prevent us from meeting delivery schedules to our customers or reduce our profit margins. Our business is dependent on the prices and supply of steel and aluminum, which, along with glass, are the principal raw materials used in our products. The steel and aluminum industries are highly cyclical in nature, and steel and aluminum prices have been volatile in recent years and may remain volatile in the future. Our purchases of aluminum ranged from approximately $1.00 to $1.40 per pound between December 15, 2005 and 2006, a fluctuation of approximately 40%, and from $0.60 to $1.40 per pound during the five years ended December 15, 2006, a fluctuation of approximately 133%. The price we paid for steel also fluctuated. For the year ended December 31, 2006, prices for seamless steel tubes ranged from approximately RMB 4,730 to 5,700 RMB per ton (a difference of approximately 21%), prices for angled steel ranged from approximately RMB 3,143 to RMB 3,465 per ton (a difference of approximately 10%), and prices for steel plates ranged from approximately RMB 3,332 to RMB 4,688 per ton (a difference of approximately 41%). 13 Steel and aluminum prices are influenced by numerous factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition, labor costs, production costs, import duties and other trade restrictions. In the past there have been unusually rapid and significant increases in steel and aluminum prices and severe shortages in the steel and aluminum industries due in part to increased demand from China’s expanding economy and high energy prices. We do not have any long-term contracts for the purchase of steel and aluminum and normally do not maintain inventories of steel and aluminum in excess of our current production requirements. We can give you no assurance that steel and aluminum will remain available or that prices will not continue to be volatile. If the available supply of steel and aluminum declines, we could experience price increases that we are not able to pass on to our customers, a deterioration of service from our suppliers or interruptions or delays that may cause us not to meet delivery schedules to our customers. Any of these problems could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is characterized by long periods for collection from our customers and short periods for payment to our suppliers, the combination of which may cause us to have liquidity problems. We experience an average accounts settlement period ranging from three months to as high as one year from the time we provide services to the time we receive payment from our customers. In contrast, we typically need to place certain deposit with our suppliers on a portion of the purchase price in advance and for some suppliers we must maintain a deposit for future orders. We are typically paid by the contractor the entire amount due to us for our services and products once the entire project is completed, which could be significantly after we complete the curtain wall portion of the project. National policy requires the contractor to pay 85% of our total contract value to us before the project is completed, and the remainder may be paid when the contractor completes the entire project. Because our payment cycle is considerably shorter than our receivable cycle, we may experience working capital shortages. Working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in our results of operations and liquidity. We cannot assure you that system problems, industry trends or other issues will not extend our collection period, adversely impact our working capital. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. The markets we serve are very competitive, price and lead-time sensitive and are impacted by changes in the commercial construction industry, including unforeseen delays in project timing and work flow. In addition, competition in the markets of the building industry and in the metal coil coating industry is intense. It is based primarily on: · quality; · service; · delivery; · ability to provide added value in the design and engineering of buildings; · price; · speed of construction in buildings and components; and · personal relationships with customers. We compete with several large integrated glass manufacturers, numerous specialty, architectural glass and window fabricators, and major contractors and subcontractors. We also compete with a number of other manufacturers of engineered building systems ranging from small local firms to large national firms. Many of our competitors have greater financial or other resources than we. In addition, we and other manufacturers of engineered high-end curtain walls compete with alternative methods of building construction. If these alternative building methods compete successfully against us, such competition could adversely affect us. Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns. If the economy weakens, then our revenues, profits and our financial condition may deteriorate. Many of our competitors have greater financial or other resources than us. 14 Our business activities may require our employees to travel to and work in high security risk countries, which may result in employee death or injury, repatriation costs or other unforeseen costs. As a multinational company, our employees often travel to and work in high security risk countries around the world that are undergoing political, social and economic upheavals resulting in war, civil unrest, criminal activity or acts of terrorism. For example, we will have had approximately 150 different employees working in Qatar from time to time and approximately 12 employees working in Vietnam from time to time. We have also had employees in Dubai. As a result, we may be subject to costs related to employee death or injury, repatriation or other unforeseen circumstances. Force majeure events, including natural disasters and terrorists’ actions have negatively impacted and could further negatively impact the economies in which we operate, which may affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Force majeure events, including natural disasters, such as Typhoon Pai Bi An that affected the Southeastern China Coast in August 2006 and terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, could negatively impact the economies in which we operate. We typically remain obligated to perform our services after a terrorist action or natural disaster unless the contract contains a force majeure clause that relieves us of our contractual obligations in such an extraordinary event. If we are not able to react quickly to force majeure, our operations may be affected significantly, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may suffer as a result of product liability or defective products. We may produce products which injure or kill individuals despite proper testing. Existing PRC laws and regulations do not require us to maintain third party liability insurance to cover product liability claims. However, if a product liability claim is brought against us, it may, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, result in damage to our reputation, breach of contract with our customers, decreased demand for our products, costly litigation, product recalls, loss of revenue, and the inability to commercialize some products. We incur costs to comply with environmental laws and have liabilities for environmental cleanups. Because we have air emissions, discharge wastewater, and handle hazardous substances and solid waste at our fabrication facilities, we incur costs and liabilities to comply with environmental laws and regulations and may incur significant additional costs as those laws and regulations change in the future or if there is an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. The operations of our fabrication facilities are subject to stringent and complex environmental laws and regulations that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent waste for disposal. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. If our partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to legal liability, loss of reputation or reduced profits. We sometimes enter into subcontracts, joint ventures and other contractual arrangements with outside partners to jointly bid on and execute a particular project. The success of these joint projects depends upon, among other things, the satisfactory performance of the contractual obligations of our partners. If any of our partners fails to satisfactorily perform its contractual obligations, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to complete the project. If we are unable to adequately address our partner’s performance issues, then our client could terminate the joint project, exposing us to legal liability, loss of reputation or reduced profits. We are dependent on certain key personnel and loss of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is, to a certain extent, attributable to the management, sales and marketing, and operational expertise of key personnel. Luo Ken Yi, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Tang Nianzhong, our Vice General Manager and Ye Ning, our Vice General Manager perform key functions in the operation of our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain these managers after the term of their employment contracts expire. The loss of these managers could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We must attract, recruit and retain a sizeable workforce of technically competent employees. Our ability to effectively implement our business strategy will depend upon, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of additional highly skilled and experienced management and other key personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hire or retain such employees. 15 We cannot guarantee the protection of our intellectual property rights and if infringement or counterfeiting of our intellectual property rights occurs, our reputation and business may be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to preserve our patents and trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We currently own approximately 32 patents in China. If we fail to maintain our patents and trade secret protections, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary rights. In addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage. If a third party initiates litigation regarding our patents, and is successful, a court could revoke our patents or limit the scope of coverage for those patents. We also rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. We attempt to protect this information with security measures such as the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate collaborators. It is possible that these individuals will breach these agreements and that any remedies for a breach will be insufficient to allow us to recover our costs. Furthermore, our trade secrets, know-how and other technology may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Furthermore, we have registered and applied for registration of our trademarks in the PRC, where we have a substantial business presence, to protect the reputation of our products. Our products are sold under these trademarks. There is no assurance that there will not be any infringement of our brand name or other registered trademarks or counterfeiting of our products in the future. Should any such infringement or counterfeiting occur, our reputation and business may be adversely affected. We may also incur significant expenses and substantial amounts of time and effort to enforce our intellectual property rights in the future. Such diversion of our resources may adversely affect our existing business and future expansion plans. We enjoy certain preferential tax concessions and loss of these preferential tax concessions will cause our tax liabilities to increase and our profitability to decline. We enjoy preferential tax concessions in the PRC as a high-tech enterprise. Pursuant to the State Council’s Regulations on Encouraging Investment in and Development, we were granted a reduction in our income tax rate to a rate of 15%. In addition, there is no assurance that the preferential tax treatment in the PRC will remain unchanged and effective. Our tax liabilities will increase and our profits may accordingly decline if our reduced income tax rate is no longer applicable and/or the tax relief on investment in PRC is no longer available. Additionally, the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law (the “EIT Law”) was enacted on March 16, 2007. Under the EIT Law, effective January 1, 2008, China will adopt a uniform tax rate of 25.0% for all enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) and cancel several tax incentives enjoyed by foreign-invested enterprises. However, for foreign-invested enterprises established before the promulgation of the EIT Law, a five-year transition period is provided during which reduced rates will apply but gradually be phased out. Since the PRC government has not announced implementation measures for the transitional policy with regards to such preferential tax rates, we cannot reasonably estimate the financial impact of the new tax law to us at this time. Further, any future increase in the enterprise income tax rate applicable to us or other adverse tax treatments, such as the discontinuation of preferential tax treatments for high and new technology enterprises altogether, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. To prepare financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, management is required to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements, which affect the reported values of assets and liabilities and revenues and expenses and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: · the application of the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting, and revenue recognition on contracts, change orders, and contract claims; 16 · provisions for uncollectible receivables and customer claims and recoveries of costs from subcontractors, vendors and others; · provisions for income taxes and related valuation allowances; · value of goodwill and recoverability of other intangible assets; and · accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation and insurance reserves. Our actual results could differ from those estimates, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. RISKS RELATED TO US DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA All of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China, and changes in the political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and the results of operations and financial condition. Our business operations may be adversely affected by the current and future political environment in the PRC. The PRC has operated as a socialist state since the mid-1900s and is controlled by the Communist Party of China. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence and control over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC has only permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities since 1988. The government of the PRC has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy, particularly the pharmaceutical industry, through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, raw materials, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. Under current leadership, the government of the PRC has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the government of the PRC will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC, particularly in our industry since it deals with contracts from the Chinese Government, and our executive officers and employees have not been subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prior to the completion of the Share Exchange. We can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business. The PRC’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes, in which system decided legal cases have little value as precedents unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. The Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We are considered a foreign persons or foreign funded enterprise under PRC laws, and as a result, we are required to comply with PRC laws and regulations. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. If the relevant authorities find us in violation of PRC laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: · levying fines; 17 · revoking our business and other licenses; · requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and · requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. During the past decade, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as approximately 20% and China has experienced deflation as low as approximately minus 2%. If prices for our products and services rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies such as raw materials, it may have an adverse effect on our profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. The implementation of such policies may impede economic growth. In October 2004, the People’s Bank of China, the PRC’s central bank, raised interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade and indicated in a statement that the measure was prompted by inflationary concerns in the Chinese economy. In April 2006, the People’s Bank of China raised the interest rate again. Repeated rises in interest rates by the central bank would likely slow economic activity in China which could, in turn, materially increase our costs and also reduce demand for our products and services. Recent PRC regulations relating to acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities may create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict or limit our ability to operate, including our ability to pay dividends. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued a public notice in January 2005 concerning foreign exchange regulations on mergers and acquisitions in China. The public notice states that if an offshore company controlled by PRC residents intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to strict examination by the relevant foreign exchange authorities. The public notice also states that the approval of the relevant foreign exchange authorities is required for any sale or transfer by the PRC residents of a PRC company’s assets or equity interests to foreign entities for equity interests or assets of the foreign entities. In April 2005, SAFE issued another public notice further explaining the January notice. In accordance with the April notice, if an acquisition of a PRC company by an offshore company controlled by PRC residents has been confirmed by a Foreign Investment Enterprise Certificate prior to the promulgation of the January notice, the PRC residents must each submit a registration form to the local SAFE branch with respect to their respective ownership interests in the offshore company, and must also file an amendment to such registration if the offshore company experiences material events, such as changes in the share capital, share transfer, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transaction or use of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. The April notice also provides that failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may result in restrictions on our PRC resident shareholders and subsidiaries. Pending the promulgation of detailed implementation rules, the relevant government authorities are reluctant to commence processing any registration or application for approval required under the SAFE notices. In addition, on August 8, 2006, the Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”), joined by the State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, State Administration of Taxation, State Administration for Industry and Commerce, China Securities Regulatory Commission and SAFE, amended and released the Provisions for Foreign Investors to Merge and Acquire Domestic Enterprises, new foreign-investment rules which took effect September 8, 2006, superseding much, but not all, of the guidance in the prior SAFE circulars. These new rules significantly revise China’s regulatory framework governing onshore-offshore restructurings and how foreign investors can acquire domestic enterprises. These new rules signify greater PRC government attention to cross-border merger, acquisition and other investment activities, by confirming MOFCOM as a key regulator for issues related to mergers and acquisitions in China and requiring MOFCOM approval of a broad range of merger, acquisition and investment transactions. Further, the new rules establish reporting requirements for acquisition of control by foreigners of companies in key industries, and reinforce the ability of the Chinese government to monitor and prohibit foreign control transactions in key industries. 18 These new rules may significantly affect the means by which offshore-onshore restructurings are undertaken in China in connection with offshore private equity and venture capital financings, mergers and acquisitions. It is expected that such transactional activity in China in the near future will require significant case-by-case guidance from MOFCOM and other government authorities as appropriate. It is anticipated that application of the new rules will be subject to significant administrative interpretation, and we will need to closely monitor how MOFCOM and other ministries apply the rules to ensure its domestic and offshore activities continue to comply with PRC law. Given the uncertainties regarding interpretation and application of the new rules, we may need to expend significant time and resources to maintain compliance. It is uncertain how our business operations or future strategy will be affected by the interpretations and implementation of the SAFE notices and new rules. Our business operations or future strategy could be adversely affected by the SAFE notices and the new rules. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities. Any recurrence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), Avian Flu, or another widespread public health problem, in the PRC could adversely affect our operations. A renewed outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, Avian Flu or another widespread public health problem in China, where all of our manufacturing facilities are located and where all of our sales occur, could have a negative effect on our operations. Such an outbreak could have an impact on our operations as a result of: · quarantines or closures of some of our manufacturing facilities, which would severely disrupt our operations, · the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and · a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our operations. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. PRC companies have historically not adopted a Western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which includes strong corporate governance, internal controls and, computer, financial and other control systems. In addition, we may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls which could impact the reliability of our financial statements and prevent us from complying with SEC rules and regulations and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have a materially adverse effect on our business. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based upon U.S. laws, including the federal securities laws or other foreign laws against us or our management. Most of our current operations are conducted in China. Moreover, almost all of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of China. All or substantially all of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States and in the PRC. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these persons. In addition, uncertainty exists as to whether the courts of China would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our officers and/or directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities law of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in China against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. 19 RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE There is no current trading market for our common stock, and there is no assurance of an established public trading market, which would adversely affect the ability of our investors to sell their securities in the public market. Our common stock is not currently listed or quoted for trading on any national securities exchange or national quotation system. We are applying for the listing of our common stock on the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”) in the future. There is no guarantee that the American Stock Exchange, or any other exchange or quotation system, will permit our shares to be listed and traded. If we fail to obtain a listing on the American Stock Exchange, we may seek quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board. The NASD has enacted changes that limit quotations on the OTC Bulletin Board to securities of issuers that are current in their reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The effect on the OTC Bulletin Board of these rule changes and other proposed changes cannot be determined at this time. The OTC Bulletin Board is an inter-dealer, over-the-counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than the NASDAQ Global Market or AMEX. Quotes for stocks included on the OTC Bulletin Board are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers as are those for the NASDAQ Global Market or AMEX. Therefore, prices for securities traded solely on the OTC Bulletin Board may be difficult to obtain and holders of common stock may be unable to resell their securities at or near their original offering price or at any price. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, as the future sale of a substantial amount of outstanding stock in the public marketplace could reduce the price of our common stock. Pursuant to the terms of the Share Exchange, we agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission to register a total of 2,320,875 shares of common stock issued in an equity financing that was conducted in connection with the Share Exchange that closed on October 17, 2006. The investors in the Private Placement also entered into a lock-up agreement pursuant to which they agreed not to sell their shares until our common stock begins to be traded on the New York Stock Exchange, American Stock Exchange, NASDAQ Global Market, NASDAQ Capital Market or the OTC Bulletin Board, after which their shares will automatically be released from the lock up on a monthly basis. We also agreed to register the IR Securities, which consists of 100,000 shares of our common stock and common stock underlying a five-year warrant to purchase 232,088 shares, in the registration statement filed in connection with the Private Placement. We also agreed to register all of the 2,275,000 shares of common stock held by our shareholders who were shareholders immediately prior to the Share Exchange. Because we issued shares to these shareholders that were issued shares while we were a “blank check” shell company with no operations, these shareholders are considered to be promoters or affiliates. It should be noted that these shares may not be sold by these promoters or affiliates, or their transferees, pursuant to Rule 144 of the Securities Act, regardless of technical compliance with the rule. Any such resale transaction under Rule 144 would appear to be designed to distribute or redistribute such shares to the public without coming within the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Therefore, these promoters or affiliates, or their transferees, can only resell their shares through a registration statement filed under the Securities Act. Of the 2,275,000 shares held by our shareholders prior to the Share Exchange, we agreed to register 1,312,675 shares in the registration statement filed in connection with the Private Placement. We agreed to register the remaining 962,325 shares, which are beneficially owned by affiliates of WestPark Capital, Inc., in a subsequent registration statement filed by us in a subsequent registration statement that we agreed to file by May 23, 2007, which is six months and ten days after the date on which we first filed the registration statement to register the shares issued in the Private Placement. We also agreed to register 2,000,000 shares of our common stock that were issued to FirstAlliance Financial Group, Inc., which received its shares as a designee of the sole shareholder of Full Art at the closing of the Share Exchange. The shares will be registered in the registration statement that is filed to register the shares held by the affiliates of WestPark. All of the shares included in an effective registration statement as described above may be freely sold and transferred except if subject to a lock up agreement. 20 Additionally, following the Share Exchange, the former stockholder of Full Art may be eligible to sell all or some of our shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act (“Rule 144”), subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, a stockholder (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied a one-year holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three-month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. As of the closing of the Share Exchange, 1% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock was approximately 500,000 shares. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of securities, without any limitations, by a non-affiliate that has satisfied a two-year holding period. Any substantial sale of common stock pursuant to any resale report or Rule 144 may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock by creating an excessive supply. Following the Share Exchange, the former principal stockholder of Full Art has significant influence over us. Our largest shareholder, KGE Group, Limited, or KGE Group, beneficially owns or controls approximately 75.5% of our outstanding shares as of the close of the Share Exchange. Luo Ken Yi, who is our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, and Chairman of the Board, and Ye Ning, who is our Vice General Manager and a director, are directors of KGE Group. In addition, Luo Ken Yi and Ye Ning own approximately 77.0% and 2.5%, respectively, respectively, of KGE Group’s issued and outstanding shares. As a result of its holding, KGE Group has controlling influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors, and other significant corporate actions. KGE Group also has the power to prevent or cause a change in control. In addition, without the consent of KGE Group, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of KGE Group, and its control persons, may differ from the interests of our shareholders. We recognized a charge to our earnings as a result of the Share Exchange and also may not be able to achieve the benefits we expect to result from the Share Exchange. On August 21, 2006, we entered into the Exchange Agreement, as amended on October 17, 2006, with KGE Group, the sole shareholder of Full Art, pursuant to which we agreed to acquire 100% of the issued and outstanding securities of Full Art in exchange for shares of our common stock. On October 17, 2006, the Share Exchange closed, Full Art became our wholly-owned subsidiary, our sole business operations became that of Full Art, and the management and directors of Full Art became the management and directors of us. We may not realize the benefits that we hoped to receive as a result of the Share Exchange, which includes: · access to the capital markets of the United States; · the increased market liquidity expected to result from exchanging stock in a private company for securities of a public company that may eventually be traded; · the ability to use registered securities to make acquisition of assets or businesses; · increased visibility in the financial community; · enhanced access to the capital markets; · improved transparency of operations; and · perceived credibility and enhanced corporate image of being a publicly traded company. There can be no assurance that any of the anticipated benefits of the Share Exchange will be realized in respect to our new business operations. In addition, the attention and effort devoted to achieving the benefits of the Share Exchange and attending to the obligations of being a public company, such as reporting requirements and securities regulations, could significantly divert management’s attention from other important issues, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results or stock price in the future. 21 In addition, we issued 2,000,000 shares of common stock to FirstAlliance Financial Group, Inc. upon closing of the Share Exchange, and the shares were accounted as a non-reoccurring general and administrative expense and, as a result, reduced our earnings for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2006. As a result of the reduction in earnings, our results of operation for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2006 suffered and the value of our common stock and your investment may fall. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Our internal control over financial reporting may have weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed, the disclosure of which may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. We are required to establish and maintain appropriate internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to establish those controls, or any failure of those controls once established, could adversely impact our public disclosures regarding our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting may identify weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. Any actual or perceived weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal control over financial reporting, disclosure of management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting or disclosure of our public accounting firm’s attestation to or report on management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Our officers and directors have no experience in public company reporting and limited experience in financial accounting, which could impair our ability to satisfy public company filing requirements and increase our securities compliance costs. Our officers and directors do not have any prior experience as officers and directors of a publicly traded company, or in complying with the regulatory requirements applicable to a public company. As a result, we could have difficulty satisfying the regulatory requirements applicable to public companies, which could adversely affect the market for our common stock. At present, we rely upon outside experts to advise us on matters relating to financial accounting and public company reporting. While we believe that it will be possible to satisfy our public company reporting requirements through the use of third party experts, our general and administrative costs will remain higher to the extent our officers alone are not able to satisfy our public company reporting requirements. Standards for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Of 2002 are uncertain, and if we fail to comply in a timely manner, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. Rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, and attestation of this assessment by our company’s independent registered public accountants. The SEC extended the compliance dates for non-accelerated filers, as defined by the SEC. Accordingly, we believe that the annual assessment of our internal controls requirement will first apply to our annual report for the 2007 fiscal year and the attestation requirement of management’s assessment by our independent registered public accountants will first apply to our annual report for the 2008 fiscal year. The standards that must be met for management to assess the internal control over financial reporting as effective are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards. We may encounter problems or delays in completing activities necessary to make an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the attestation process by our independent registered public accountants is new and we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving an attestation of our assessment by our independent registered public accountants. If we cannot assess our internal control over financial reporting as effective, or our independent registered public accountants are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted. 22 Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure will result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC regulations, have created uncertainty for public companies and significantly increased the costs and risks associated with accessing the public markets and public reporting. Our management team will need to invest significant management time and financial resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards for public companies, which will lead to increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock,” and thereby be subject to additional sale and trading regulations that may make it more difficult to sell. Our common stock, which is not currently listed or quoted for trading, may be considered to be a “penny stock” if it does not qualify for one of the exemptions from the definition of “penny stock” under Section 3a51-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) once, and if, it starts trading. Our common stock may be a “penny stock” if it meets one or more of the following conditions (i) the stock trades at a price less than $5.00 per share; (ii) it is NOT traded on a “recognized” national exchange; (iii) it is NOT quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market, or even if so, has a price less than $5.00 per share; or (iv) is issued by a company that has been in business less than three years with net tangible assets less than $5 million. The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers participating in sales of our common stock will be subject to the “penny stock” regulations set forth in Rules 15-2 through 15g-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act. For example, Rule 15g-2 requires broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document at least two business days before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult and time consuming for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. The ability of our Chinese operating subsidiaries to pay dividends may be restricted due to foreign exchange control regulations of China. The ability of our Chinese operating subsidiaries to pay dividends may be restricted due to the foreign exchange control policies and availability of cash balance of the Chinese operating subsidiaries. Because substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and a majority of our revenues are generated in China, all of our revenue being earned and currency received are denominated in Renminbi (RMB). RMB is subject to the exchange control regulation in China, and, as a result, we may unable to distribute any dividends outside of China due to PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into US Dollars. We do not foresee paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not plan to declare or pay any cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future and we currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth. As a result, you should not rely on an investment in our securities if you require dividend income. Capital appreciation, if any, of our shares may be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Moreover, you may not be able to resell your shares in our company at or above the price you paid for them. 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 