Item 1A. Risk Factors We have a history of significant losses. If we do not regain and sustain profitability, our financial condition and stock price will continue to suffer. We have experienced significant net losses and we expect to continue to incur losses in the future. As of December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was approximately $107.1 million. We experienced net losses of $51.2 million and $17.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008, respectively and we may not be able to regain or sustain profitability in the near future, causing our financial condition to suffer and our stock price to decline. While our proposed merger with Here Networks LLC and Regent Entertainment Media Inc. is pending, we will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could adversely affect our business. Uncertainty about the effect of our proposed merger on our employees and customers may have an adverse effect on our business. Although we intend to take actions to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships. Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the merger, as employees may experience uncertainty about their future post-merger roles with the company. If, despite our retention efforts, key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the company post-merger, our business could be seriously harmed. The merger agreement also restricts us from taking specified actions until the proposed business combination occurs or the merger agreement terminates. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business that may arise before completion of the proposed business combination or, if the proposed business combination is abandoned, termination of the merger agreement. Failure to complete the proposed business combination with Here Networks LLC and Regent Entertainment Media Inc. could negatively affect our business. If the proposed business combination is not completed for any reason, we may be subject to a number of material risks, including the following: • we may not realize the benefits expected from becoming part of a combined company, including a potentially enhanced competitive and financial position; • current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us, which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, marketing and technical personnel; • in preparation for the proposed business combination, we may take additional actions with respect to our business that we would not have taken if we were continuing to operate on a stand-alone basis; 6 Table of Contents • costs related to the proposed business combination which we incur, such as legal, accounting and some financial advisory fees, must be paid even if the proposed business combination is not completed; and • we may be required to raise additional capital to continue operating as a stand-alone company, which could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders or increased interest and other costs, and such additional capital may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, especially in view of the current market conditions. If we are unable to generate revenue from advertising or if we were to lose our existing advertisers, our business will suffer. Our advertising revenue is dependent on the budgeting, buying patterns and expenditures of advertisers which in turn are affected by a number of factors beyond our control such as general economic conditions, changes in consumer habits and changes in the retail sales environment. A decline or delay in advertising expenditures caused by such factors could reduce or hurt our ability to increase our revenue. Advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, such as the healthcare and pharmaceutical industry, currently represent a significant portion of our advertising revenue. Any political, economic, social or technological change resulting in a significant reduction in the advertising spending of this sector or other sectors could adversely affect our advertising revenue or our ability to increase such revenue. Our advertising revenue is also dependent on the collective experience of our sales force and on our ability to recruit, hire, train, retain and manage our sales force. We have experienced turnover in our sales team and, on January 16, 2009, reduced our sales force by approximately 50% to reduce costs and manage expenses. If we are unable to retain our current sales force, or if our reduced sales force is unable to effectively meet its increased obligations, we may be unable to meet the demands of our current advertisers or attract new advertisers and our advertising revenue could decrease. Additionally, advertisers and advertising agencies may not perceive the LGBT market that we serve to be a broad enough or profitable enough market for their advertising budgets, or may prefer to direct their online advertising expenditures to larger, higher-traffic websites that focus on broader markets. If we are unable to attract new advertisers or if our advertising campaigns are unsuccessful with the LGBT community, our revenue will decrease and operating results will suffer. In our advertising business, we compete with a broad variety of online content providers, including large media companies such as Yahoo!, Google, MSN, Time Warner, Viacom and News Corporation, as well as a number of smaller companies focused on the LGBT community. If we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors, we may not be able to achieve or maintain market share, increase our revenue or achieve profitability. Our ability to fulfill the demands of our online advertisers is dependent on the number of page views generated by our visitors, members and subscribers. If we are not able to attract new visitors, members or subscribers or to retain our current visitors, members and subscribers, our page views may decrease. If our page views decrease, we may be unable to timely meet the demands of our current online advertisers and our advertising revenue could decrease. If our advertisers perceive the advertising campaigns we run for them to be unsuccessful or if they do not renew their contracts with us, our revenue will decrease and operating results will suffer. Our success depends, in part, upon the growth of Internet advertising and upon our ability to accurately predict the cost of customized campaigns. We compete with traditional media including television, radio and print, in addition to high-traffic websites, such as those operated by Yahoo!, Google, AOL and MSN, for a share of advertisers’ total online advertising expenditures. We face the risk that advertisers might find the Internet to be less effective than traditional media in promoting their products or services, and as a result they may reduce or eliminate their expenditures on Internet advertising. Many potential advertisers and advertising agencies have only limited experience advertising on the Internet and historically have not devoted a significant portion of their advertising expenditures to Internet advertising. Additionally, filter software programs that limit or prevent advertisements from being displayed on or delivered to a user’s computer are becoming increasingly available. If this type of software becomes widely accepted, it would negatively affect Internet advertising. Our business could be harmed if the market for Internet advertising does not grow. Currently, we offer advertisers a number of alternatives to advertise their products or services on our websites, and to our members, including banner advertisements, rich media advertisements, email campaigns, text links and sponsorships of our channels, topic sections, directories, sweepstakes, awards and other online databases and content. Frequently, advertisers request advertising campaigns consisting of a combination of these offerings, including some that may require custom development. If we are unable to predict the cost of developing these custom advertising campaigns, our expenses may increase and our margins will be reduced. 7 Table of Contents If we encounter technical difficulties, such as outages and slow or non-responsive system performance, with our Gay.com website or if the website lacks the functionality desired by our users, members and subscribers, our revenue will decline. We recently converted the core website functionality of our flagship website, Gay.com, onto a new technology platform. During the re-launch of the Gay.com website, we experienced technical difficulties that resulted in downtime and suboptimal performance of the website. As a result of these technical difficulties, some of our members and subscribers canceled their accounts and subscriptions with us. On January 16, 2009, we reduced our technology staff by approximately 50% to reduce costs and manage expenses. If we encounter further technical difficulties, and such difficulties result in continued or increased downtime on our Gay.com website, or if our users, members and subscribers do not like the new look, feel and functionality of our new Gay.com website, additional members and subscribers may cancel their accounts and subscriptions with us, advertisers may fail to initiate or renew their contracts with us and our revenue will decline. If our efforts to attract and retain subscribers are not successful, our revenue will decrease. Because a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our subscription services, we must continue to attract and retain subscribers. Many of our new subscribers originate from word-of-mouth referrals from existing subscribers within the LGBT community. If our subscribers do not perceive our service offerings to be of high quality or sufficient breadth, if we introduce new services or re-launch current services, as we recently did with our Gay.com website, and such services are not favorably received or if we fail to introduce compelling new content or features or enhance our existing offerings, we may not be able to attract new subscribers or retain our current subscribers. In the year ended December 31, 2008, total subscription cancellations exceeded the number of new subscriptions, resulting in a decrease in total paying online subscribers. Our base of likely potential subscribers is also limited to members of the LGBT community, who collectively comprise a small portion of the general adult population. While seeking to add new subscribers, we must also minimize the loss of existing subscribers. We lose our existing subscribers primarily as a result of cancellations and credit card failures due to expirations or exceeded credit limits. Subscribers cancel their subscription to our services for many reasons, including a perception, among some subscribers, that they do not use the service sufficiently, that the service is a poor value or that customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. Members may decline to subscribe or existing subscribers may cancel their subscriptions if our websites experience a disruption or degradation of services, including slow response times or excessive downtime due to scheduled or unscheduled hardware or software maintenance or denial of service attacks. We must continually add new subscribers both to replace subscribers who cancel or whose subscriptions are not renewed due to credit card failures and to continue to grow our business beyond our current subscriber base. If excessive numbers of subscribers cancel their subscription, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate in order to replace canceled subscribers with new subscribers, which will harm our financial condition. We may need additional capital and may not be able to raise additional funds on favorable terms or at all, which could limit our ability to continue operations, dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, cause us to seek business dispositions on unfavorable terms, or cause us to consider curtailing or ceasing operations. In July 2007, we completed a private placement financing, which resulted in significant dilution to our existing stockholders. As a result of our recent and continuing losses, we may need to raise additional capital to fund operating activities. We expect that raising additional financing will be very difficult, if it could be obtained at all. If we were to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-related or debt securities, these securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders will experience further dilution of their ownership interests. If we are unable to raise additional financing, our business could be harmed, and we could be forced to engage in dispositions of remaining assets or businesses on unfavorable terms, or consider curtailing or ceasing operations. If we do not regain and maintain compliance with Nasdaq minimum market value of publicly held shares requirement or other listing requirements, we may be forced to transfer to the Nasdaq Capital Market or our common stock may be delisted. On August 11, 2008, we received a notice from the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department of The Nasdaq Stock Market stating that we have not maintained a minimum market value of $5,000,000 of publicly held shares (defined as total shares outstanding, less any shares held by officers, directors or beneficial owners of 10% or more of the total shares outstanding), as required for continued inclusion under Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(2) (the “Rule”). The notice further stated that we had 90 calendar days (or until October 30, 2008) to regain compliance. If, at anytime prior to October 30, 2008, the minimum market value of publicly held shares (as defined by the Rule) of our common stock was $5,000,000 or greater for a minimum of 10 consecutive trading days, then we would regain compliance with the Rule. We were unable to regain compliance by October 30, 2008. However, on October 16, 2008, we were notified by Nasdaq that, due to extraordinary market conditions, Nasdaq was temporarily suspending the minimum bid price and market value of publicly held shares requirements for continued inclusion. As a result of that suspension, all companies in the compliance process resulting from their failure to meet these requirements, including us, will remain in the same stage of the process through April 19, 2009. 8 Table of Contents If we cannot demonstrate compliance with the Rule by approximately April 30, 2009, the Nasdaq staff will provide written notification that our securities will be delisted and, at that time, we may appeal the determination to a Listing Qualifications Panel. If our common stock were to be delisted, it would trade on the over-the-counter bulletin board or in the “pink sheets,” both of which are viewed by most investors as less desirable and less liquid market places than the Nasdaq Global Market or the Nasdaq Capital Market. This could make trading more difficult for our investors, leading to lower trading volumes and declines in share price, which would also make it more difficult and expensive for us to raise any additional capital. Additionally, a future reverse stock split, if any, may not necessarily result in our regaining compliance with Nasdaq rules. Alternatively, we may apply to transfer our securities to the Nasdaq Capital Market, if we satisfy inclusion requirements for that market. If we timely submit the transfer application, the initiation of the delisting proceedings will be stayed by the Nasdaq staff pending review of the application. We intend to monitor the minimum market value of publicly held shares (as defined by the Rule) of our common stock between now and approximately April 30, 2009. If our common stock does not trade at a level that is likely to regain compliance, our board of directors will consider options available to us, including applying to transfer our securities to the Nasdaq Capital Market. We expect our operating results to fluctuate, which may lead to volatility in our stock price. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, we believe that period-over-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely on the results of one period as an indication of our future or long-term performance. Our operating results in future quarters may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which may result in a decline in our stock price. Recent and potential future divestitures could result in operating difficulties and unanticipated liabilities. In December 2007, we completed the sale of substantially all of the assets of our Travel and Events business, RSVP. On August 13, 2008, we completed the sale of our Publishing business, including substantially all of the assets of our subsidiaries LPI and SpecPub. These divestitures may be associated with a number of risks, including: • potential goodwill write downs associated with acquisitions of businesses where the previously anticipated synergies of the combined entities have not been realized. For example, during fiscal 2007, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $21.1 million and $4.0 million in discontinued operations due to lower revenue than expected related to our Publishing and Travel and Events businesses, respectively; • the potential diversion of significant management attention and significant financial resources from the ongoing development of our business during the implementation of a divestiture; • the potential impairment of relationships with and difficulty in attracting and retaining employees as a result of the divestiture of certain businesses; • the potential impairment of relationships with our subscribers, advertisers, customers and partners as a result of the divestiture of certain businesses; and • the difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified management to lead the retained businesses. If we are unable to successfully address these or other risks associated with the divestiture of RSVP or LPI and SpecPub, we may be unable to replace the revenue from the divested businesses, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we do not continue to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may suffer. Our success depends on the collective experience of our senior executive team and board of directors and on our ability to recruit, hire, train, retain and manage other highly skilled employees and directors. We have experienced departures of several executives and key employees, and on January 16, 2009, reduced our total workforce by approximately 33%, including our Chief Technology Officer, to reduce costs and manage expenses. Any disruptions from further reductions in force or departures of our senior executives or key employees could harm our business and financial results or limit our ability to grow and expand our business. Our financial condition, the recent reduction in force and divestiture of certain businesses and entry into a definitive merger agreement regarding a 9 Table of Contents proposed business combination with Here Networks LLC and Regent Entertainment Media Inc. may negatively impact our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or that we will successfully train and manage the employees that we do hire. Any significant disruption in service on our websites or in our computer and communications hardware and software systems could harm our business. Our ability to attract new visitors, members, subscribers, advertisers and other customers to our websites is critical to our success and largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer hardware and telecommunications failures, software failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events, errors in design, installation, configuration, monitoring and usage by our employees, errors in usage by our customers, risks inherent in upgrades and transitions to new hardware and software systems and network devices, or the failure of our third party vendors to perform their obligations for any reason, any of which could lead to interruption in our service and operations, and loss, misuse or theft of data. Our websites could also be targeted by direct attacks intended to cause a disruption in service or to siphon off customers to other Internet services. Our members’ email accounts could be compromised by phishing or other means, and used to send spam email messages clogging our email servers and disrupting our members’ ability to send and receive email. Any successful attempt by hackers to disrupt our websites’ services or our internal systems could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation, resulting in a loss of visitors, members, subscribers, advertisers and other customers. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose market share and our revenue may decline. Our markets are intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. In our advertising business, we compete with traditional media companies focused on the general population and the LGBT community, including satellite radio, cable networks and network, cable and satellite television shows. We also compete with a broad variety of online content providers, including large media companies such as Yahoo!, Google, MSN, Time Warner, Viacom and News Corporation, as well as a number of smaller companies focused specifically on the LGBT community. In our subscription business, our competitors include many of the same companies as well as other companies that offer more targeted online service offerings, such as Match.com, Yahoo! Personals, and a number of other smaller online companies focused specifically on the LGBT community. More recently, we have faced competition from the growth of social networking sites, such as MySpace and Facebook, that provide opportunity for an online community for a wide variety of users, including the LGBT community. If we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors, we may not be able to achieve or maintain adequate market share, increase our revenue or regain and maintain profitability. We believe that the primary competitive factors affecting our business are quality of content and service, price, functionality, brand recognition, customer affinity and loyalty, ease of use, reliability and critical mass. Some of our current and many of our potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases and greater brand recognition in other business and Internet markets and significantly greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources than we do. Therefore, these competitors may be able to devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies or may try to attract users or traffic by offering services for free and devote substantially more resources to developing their services and systems than we can. Increased competition may result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and reduced revenue. Our ability to continue to offer increasingly competitive functional capabilities on our websites will also depend upon the success of our recent move onto a more extensible core technology platform. If we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brand could be harmed if third parties gain rights to, or use, these domain names in a manner that would confuse or impair our ability to attract and retain customers. We have registered various domain names relating to our brands, including Gay.com, PlanetOut.com, and PlanetOutInc.com. If we fail to maintain these registrations, a third party may be able to gain rights to or cause us to stop using these domain names, which will make it more difficult for users to find our websites and our service. The acquisition and maintenance of domain names are generally regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. The regulation of domain names in the United States may change in the near future. Governing bodies may designate additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names. If a third party acquires domain names similar to ours and engages in a business that may be harmful to our reputation or confusing to our subscribers and other customers, our revenue may decline, and we may incur additional expenses in maintaining our brand and defending our reputation. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. 10 Table of Contents If we fail to adequately protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights, or if we get involved in intellectual property litigation, our revenue may decline and our expenses may increase. We rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. If the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brands and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to subscribers and potential subscribers may become confused in the marketplace and our ability to attract subscribers and other customers may suffer, resulting in loss of revenue. The Internet content delivery market is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. As a publisher of online content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we publish or distribute. For example, we have received, and may receive in the future, notices or offers from third parties claiming to have intellectual property rights in technologies that we use in our businesses and inviting us to license those rights. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity, and we may not prevail in any future litigation. We may also attract claims that our online media properties have violated the copyrights, rights of privacy, or other rights of third parties. Adverse determinations in litigation could result in the loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, and require us to seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from licensing our technology or selling our products, any of which could seriously harm our business. An adverse determination could also result in the issuance of a cease and desist order, which may force us to discontinue operations through our website or websites. Intellectual property litigation, whether or not determined in our favor or settled, could be costly, could harm our reputation and could divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from normal business operations. Existing or future government regulation in the United States and other countries could limit our growth and result in loss of revenue. We are subject to federal, state, local and international laws, including laws affecting companies conducting business on the Internet, including user privacy laws, regulations prohibiting unfair and deceptive trade practices and laws addressing issues such as freedom of expression, pricing and access charges, quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights, display and production of material intended for mature audiences and information security. Our compliance with these laws may require us to, for example, change or limit the content we offer to customers through our websites, or change or limit the ways in which our online subscribers interact with one another. If such changes or limitations cause our subscribers to cancel their subscriptions, or reduce the number of first-time subscribers, our revenue could decline. The risks of transmitting confidential information online, including credit card information, may discourage customers from subscribing to our services or purchasing goods from us. In order for the online marketplace to be successful, we and other market participants must be able to transmit confidential information, including credit card information, securely over public networks. Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of our customer transaction data. Any breach could cause consumers to lose confidence in the security of our websites and choose not to subscribe to our services or purchase goods from us. We cannot guarantee that our security measures will effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to our information or that of our users. If a person is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability and may significantly disrupt our operations and harm our reputation, operating results or financial condition. If we are unable to provide satisfactory customer service, we could lose subscribers. Our ability to provide satisfactory customer service depends, to a large degree, on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our customer service operations. Any significant disruption or slowdown in our ability to process customer calls resulting from telephone or Internet failures, power, system or service outages, technological issues with our infrastructure, natural disasters or other events could make it difficult or impossible to provide adequate customer service and support. Further, we may be unable to attract and retain adequate numbers of competent customer service representatives, which is essential in creating a favorable interactive customer experience. In July 2007, we closed our office in Argentina, as a result of which the number of customer service representatives and the hours of customer service representation were reduced. In January 2009, we further reduced our customer service staff to reduce costs and manage expenses. If due to these reductions or otherwise we are unable to continually provide adequate staffing for our customer service operations, our reputation could be harmed and we may lose existing and potential subscribers. In addition, we cannot guarantee that email and telephone call volumes will not exceed our present system or staffing capacities. If this occurs, we could experience delays in responding to customer inquiries and addressing customer concerns. 11 Table of Contents We may be the target of negative publicity campaigns or other actions by advocacy groups that could disrupt our operations because we serve the LGBT community. Advocacy groups may target our business through negative publicity campaigns, lawsuits and boycotts seeking to limit access to our services or otherwise disrupt our operations because we serve the LGBT community. These actions could impair our ability to attract and retain customers, especially in our advertising business, resulting in decreased revenue, and cause additional financial harm by requiring that we incur significant expenditures to defend our business and by diverting management’s attention. Further, some investors, investment banking entities, market makers, lenders and others in the investment community may decide not to invest in our securities or provide financing to us because we serve the LGBT community, which, in turn, may hurt the value of our stock. Adult content in our online service may be the target of negative publicity campaigns or subject us to restrictive or costly regulatory compliance. A portion of the content of our online service is adult in nature. Advocacy groups may target our business through negative publicity campaigns, lawsuits and boycotts seeking to limit access to our services or otherwise disrupt our operations because we are a provider of adult content. These actions could impair our ability to attract and retain customers, especially in our advertising business, resulting in decreased revenue, and cause additional financial harm by requiring that we incur significant expenditures to defend our business and by diverting management’s attention. Further, some investors, investment banking entities, market makers, lenders and others in the investment community may decide not to invest in our securities or provide financing to us because of our adult content, which, in turn, may hurt the value of our stock. Additionally, future laws or regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may restrict our ability to provide adult content, or make it more difficult or costly to do so, such as the Walsh Act, which became law in July 2006, and the regulations adopted by the DOJ in June 2005 and January 2009 purporting to implement the CPO Act. If one or more states or countries successfully assert that we should collect sales or other taxes on the use of the Internet or the online sales of goods and services, our expenses will increase, resulting in lower margins. In the United States, federal and state tax authorities are currently exploring the appropriate tax treatment of companies engaged in online commerce, and new state tax regulations may subject us to additional state sales and income taxes, which could increase our expenses and decrease our profit margins. In 2003, the European Union implemented new rules regarding the collection and payment of value added tax, or VAT. These rules require VAT to be charged on products and services delivered over electronic networks, including software and computer services, as well as information and cultural, artistic, sporting, scientific, educational, entertainment and similar services. These services are now being taxed in the country where the purchaser resides rather than where the supplier is located. Historically, suppliers of digital products and services that existed outside the European Union were not required to collect or remit VAT on digital orders made to purchasers in the European Union. With the implementation of these rules, we are required to collect and remit VAT on digital orders received from purchasers in the European Union, effectively reducing our revenue by the VAT amount because we currently do not pass this cost on to our customers. We also do not currently collect sales, use or other similar taxes for sales of our subscription services. In the future, one or more local, state or foreign jurisdictions may seek to impose sales, use or other tax collection obligations on us. If these obligations are successfully imposed upon us by a state or other jurisdiction, we may suffer decreased sales into that state or jurisdiction as the effective cost of purchasing goods or services from us will increase for those residing in these states or jurisdictions. In the event of an earthquake, other natural or man-made disaster, or power loss, our operations could be interrupted or adversely affected, resulting in lower revenue. Our executive offices and our data center are located in the San Francisco Bay area. Our business and operations could be disrupted in the event of electrical blackouts, fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism, break-ins or similar events. Because our California operations are located in an earthquake-sensitive area, we are particularly susceptible to the risk of damage to, or total destruction of, our systems and infrastructure. We are not insured against any losses or expenses that arise from a disruption to our business due to earthquakes. Further, the State of California has experienced deficiencies in its power supply over the last few years, resulting in occasional rolling blackouts. If rolling blackouts or other disruptions in power occur, our business and operations could be disrupted, and we will lose revenue. In the event we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting, or if these internal controls are not effective, our business and our stock price could suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to do a comprehensive and costly evaluation of their internal controls. As a result, our management is required on an ongoing basis to perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 and related regulations regarding our management’s required assessment of internal control over financial reporting has required, and will continue to require, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. If we fail to timely complete these evaluations, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. 12 Table of Contents Our stock price may be volatile and you may lose all or a part of your investment. Since our initial public offering in October 2004, our stock price has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. From October 14, 2004 through February 25, 2009, the closing sale prices of our common stock on the Nasdaq Stock Market ranged from $0.18 to $136.00 per share. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in our operating results, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors or analysts deem comparable to us, the limited float due to the concentration of shares among our recent equity financing investors and sales of stock by our existing stockholders. In addition, the stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations, and the market prices of Internet-related and e-commerce companies in particular have been extremely volatile and have recently experienced sharp share price and trading volume changes. These broad market fluctuations may impact the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and a likely diversion of our management’s attention. The sales of common stock by our stockholders could depress the price of our shares. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our shares could fall. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities at a time and price that we would deem appropriate. For example, pursuant to the terms of our July 2007 private placement, we filed a registration statement registering for resale all of the common stock we issued in the private placement. Sales by these stockholders could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. Our Stockholder Rights Plan, along with provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law, could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: • authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; • provide for a classified board of directors; • prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; • establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to Delaware law anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Additionally, our Stockholder Rights Plan adopted in January 2007 will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law or the Stockholder Rights Plan to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. On January 8, 2009, the Stockholder Rights Plan was amended so that it did not apply to the proposed business combination with Here Networks LLC, Regent Entertainment Inc. and Here Media Inc. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 