ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may occasionally make forward-looking statements and estimates such as forecasts and projections of our future performance or statements of our plans and objectives. These forward-looking statements may be contained in, among other things, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, press releases made by us and in oral statements made by our officers. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those contained in such forward-looking statements include, among other things, the risks described below. Risks Relating to our Business and the Industry A sustained downturn in the paper industry could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our ability to sell our products depends primarily on the volume of paper produced on a worldwide basis. The profitability of paper producers has historically been highly cyclical due to wide swings in the price of paper, and the paper industry is currently experiencing a period of lower prices that began in 2001. A sustained downturn in the paper industry, either globally or in a particular region, can cause paper manufacturers to reduce production or cease operations, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In anticipation of the downturn that began in 2001, paper producers began in 2000 to take actions that seek to structurally improve the balance between the supply of and demand for paper. As part of these efforts, they have shut down many paper-making machines. This has been particularly true in North America and announcements by paper producers for shutdowns of paper-making machines has continued, although at a reduced level compared to 2001 through 2004. In 2005, there has been an increase in the number of announced planned shutdowns of paper-making machines in Europe, although not at the level experienced in recent years in North America. During this period, the sales and profitability of our North American operations were adversely affected by these shutdowns. We may be required to reorganize our operations in response to changing conditions in the paper industry, and such actions may require significant expenditures and the results on operations may not ultimately be successful. In the past few years, we have undertaken various restructuring measures in response to changing market conditions in the paper industry triggered by the decline in paper prices that began in 2001. For example, between January 1, 2003 and December 31, 2005, we incurred costs of approximately $42.3 million, including $16.6 million for capital expenditures, in connection with our cost reduction programs, including the closure of eight manufacturing facilities worldwide. We may engage in additional cost reduction programs in the future. We may not recoup the costs of programs we have already initiated, or other programs we may decide to engage in the future, the costs of which may be significant. In 2005, we experienced delays in shifting production from closed facilities to other facilities which adversely impacted our revenues and profitability. In connection with any future plant closures, delays or failures in the transition of production from a closed facility to our other facilities could also adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, our profitability may decline if our restructuring efforts do not sufficiently reduce our future costs while at the same time positioning us to maintain or increase our sales. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our foreign operations expose us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and currency devaluations. We report our financial results in US Dollars, but a substantial portion of our sales and expenses are denominated in Euros and other currencies. As a result, changes in the relative values of US Dollars, Euros and these other currencies will affect our levels of revenues and profitability. If the value of the US Dollar increases relative to the value of the Euro and these other currencies, our levels of revenue and profitability will decline since the translation of a certain number of Euros or units of such other currencies into US Dollars for financial reporting purposes will represent fewer US Dollars. In addition, in the case of sales to customers in certain locations, our 10 Table of Contents sales are denominated in US Dollars or Euros but all or a substantial portion of our associated costs are denominated in a different currency. As a result, changes in the relative values of US Dollars, Euros and any such different currency will affect our profitability. Although in certain circumstances we attempt to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, our hedging strategies may not be effective. In addition, our credit facility contains financial covenants that require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. Our ability to comply with these covenants will depend in part upon our reported financial results, which as indicated above are directly affected by currency fluctuations. For example, in the event the value of the US Dollar increases relative to the Euro and other currencies in which we conduct business (and ignoring any other changes affecting our financial performance), the amount of our Adjusted EBITDA will decline. Since each of the financial ratio covenants in our credit facility is calculated by reference to the amount of our Adjusted EBITDA, currency fluctuations alone could lower the amount of our Adjusted EBITDA and therefore affect our ability to remain in compliance with our financial ratio covenants. In addition, we have certain indebtedness denominated in foreign currencies. A decline in the value of the US Dollar relative to these other currencies will result in an increase in the reported amount of our indebtedness when the amount of such indebtedness is translated into US Dollars for financial reporting purposes. Since the leverage ratio calculated under our credit facility increases based upon the amount of our reported indebtedness, a decline in the value of the US Dollar may result in our failure to maintain a leverage ratio below the maximum levels provided for in our credit facility. In summary, even if our results of operations meet our expectations when viewed in local currencies, we may not be able to satisfy the financial covenants in our credit facility as a result of currency fluctuations alone. If we are not in compliance with such covenants, we will be in default under or credit facility and will be prohibited by the terms of the credit facility from paying dividends and the lender may call the debt. Following December 31, 2006, our credit facility limits the payment of dividends in any fiscal quarter to an amount that, when added to the amount of dividends paid in the three fiscal quarters ended immediately prior to such fiscal quarter, does not exceed 75% of our pre-dividend free cash flow (as defined in our credit facility) for the four fiscal quarters ended immediately prior to such fiscal quarter. The amount of our pre-dividend free cash flow depends on the reported amounts of our Adjusted EBITDA and other financial items which may be affected by currency fluctuations. Accordingly, even if currency fluctuations do not result in our failure to satisfy the financial covenants contained in our credit facility, such fluctuations may limit the amount of dividends we are permitted to pay. Dividend payments on our common stock are to be paid in US Dollars. We do not expect to generate sufficient cash flows denominated in US Dollars to make such payments and will therefore rely, in part, on the conversion to US Dollars of cash flows generated in other currencies. The amount of US Dollars received from the conversion of cash flows generated in other currencies will depend on the then-current exchange rates. If the value of the US Dollar increases relative to the value of these other currencies, the cash flows will represent fewer US Dollars. As a result, even if our results of operations meet our expectations in local currencies and we are permitted to pay dividends under our credit facility, we may not have sufficient cash to pay such dividends. For additional information about the risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Foreign Exchange.” Increased price competition in our industry could adversely affect our gross margins and net sales. We and our competitors have been able to sell clothing and roll covers products and services at favorable prices that reflect the value they deliver to customers. This favorable pricing has been particularly available for our more technologically advanced products, such as forming fabrics, press felts and roll covers. If our competitors reduce the prices of such products, we may be required to decrease our prices to compete successfully, which could adversely affect our gross margins, net sales and profitability. In 2005, pricing pressure from our competitors required us to reduce the size of or eliminate proposed increases in the prices of our products. Our inability to increase our prices in the future could adversely affect our profitability. 11 Table of Contents Our industry is competitive and our future success will depend on our ability to effectively develop and market competitive products. The paper-making consumables industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors are larger than us, have greater financial and other resources and are well-established as suppliers to the markets we serve. In addition, some of our competitors also manufacture paper-making machines and have the ability to initially package sales of their clothing and roll cover products with the sale of their machines and/or to tie the warranties on their machines to the use of their clothing and roll cover products. Our products may not be able to compete successfully with the products of our competitors, which could result in a loss of customers and, as a result, decreased sales and profitability. We compete primarily based on the value our products deliver to our customers. Our value proposition is based on a combination of price and the technology and performance of our products, including the ability of our products to help reduce our customers’ production costs and increase the quality of the paper they produce. Our competitors could develop new technology or products that lead to a reduced demand for our products. In addition, our business depends on our customers regularly needing to replace the clothing and roll covers used on their paper-making machines. Either we or our competitors could develop new technologies that increase the useful life of clothing or roll covers, which could reduce the frequency with which our customers would need to replace their clothing and refurbish or replace their roll covers, and consequently lead to fewer sales. Because we have substantial operations outside the United States, we are subject to the economic and political conditions of foreign nations. We have manufacturing facilities in 14 foreign countries. In 2005, we sold products in approximately 62 countries other than the United States, which represented approximately 70% of our net sales. Our foreign operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including risks that: • foreign governments may impose limitations on our ability to repatriate funds; • foreign governments may impose withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to us, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; • an outbreak or escalation of any insurrection or armed conflict may occur; or • foreign governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting our business. The occurrence of any of these conditions could disrupt our business in particular countries or regions of the world, or prevent us from conducting business in particular countries or regions, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, as a holding company we will rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from our subsidiaries to meet our debt obligations and enable us to pay dividends. If foreign governments impose limitations on our ability to repatriate funds or impose or increase taxes on remittances or other payments to us, the amount of dividends and other distributions we receive from our subsidiaries could be reduced, which could reduce the amount of cash available to us to meet our debt obligations and pay dividends. We must continue to innovate and improve our products to maintain our competitive advantage. Our ability to retain our customers and increase our business depends on our ability to continually develop new, technologically superior products. We cannot assure that our investments in technological development will be sufficient, that we will be able to create and market new products or that we will be successful in competing against new technologies developed by competitors. The loss of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Our top ten customers generated 27% of our net sales during 2005. The loss of one or more of our major customers, or a substantial decrease in such customers’ purchases from us, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Because we do not generally have binding long-term purchasing agreements with our customers, there can be no assurance that our existing customers will continue to purchase products from us. 12 Table of Contents We may fail to adequately protect our proprietary technology, which would allow competitors or others to take advantage of our research and development efforts. We rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how, and continuing technological innovation to develop new products and remain competitive. If our competitors learn of our proprietary technology, they may use this information to produce products that are equivalent or superior to our products, which could reduce the sales of our products. Our employees, consultants, and corporate collaborators may breach their obligations not to reveal our confidential information, and any remedies available to us may be insufficient to compensate our damages. Even in the absence of such breaches, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how may otherwise become known to our competitors, or be independently discovered by our competitors, which could adversely affect our competitive position. We may be liable for product defects or other claims relating to our products. Our products could be defective, fail to perform as designed or otherwise cause harm to our customers, their equipment or their products. If any of our products are defective, we may be required to recall the products and/or repair or replace them, which could result in substantial expenses and affect our profitability. Any problems with the performance of our products could harm our reputation, which could result in a loss of sales to customers and/or potential customers. In addition, if our customers believe that they have suffered harm caused by our products, they could bring claims against us that could result in significant liability. A failure of our products could cause substantial damage to a paper-making machine. Any claims brought against us by customers may result in: • diversion of management’s time and attention; • expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, expenses, and payment of damages; • decreased demand for our products and services; and • injury to our reputation. Our insurance may not sufficiently cover a large judgment against us or settlement payment, and is subject to customary deductibles, limits and exclusions. We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under laws protecting the environment and human health. Our operations and facilities are subject to a number of national, state and local laws and regulations protecting the environment and human health in the United States and foreign countries that govern, among other things, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, discharges of pollutants into the air and water and workplace safety. The U.S. federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended (“CERCLA”) provides for responses to, and, in some instances, joint and several liability for releases of, hazardous substances into the environment. Environmental laws also hold current owners or operators of land or businesses liable for their own and for previous owners’ or operators’ releases of hazardous or toxic substances, materials or wastes, pollutants or contaminants, including petroleum and petroleum products. Because of our operations, the history of industrial uses at some of our facilities, the operations of predecessor owners or operators of some of the businesses, and the use and release of hazardous substances at these sites, the liability provisions of environmental laws may affect us. Many of our facilities have experienced some level of regulatory scrutiny in the past and are or may be subject to further regulatory inspections, future requests for investigation or liability for regulated materials management practices. We cannot assure that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with all laws and regulations applicable to us which are designed to protect the environment and human health. We could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and third party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws, relevant common law or the environmental permits required for our operations. We are currently conducting environmental remediation projects at certain of our sites, and we have been identified as a potentially responsible party under CERCLA or 13 Table of Contents similar state requirements for several off-site locations. As of December 31, 2005 we have reserves of $1.6 million to cover anticipated remediation costs of contamination at certain of our facilities. There can be no assurance that actual remediation costs will not exceed such reserves. Adverse labor relations could harm our operations and reduce our profitability. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 3,800 employees, approximately 22% of whom were subject to protection of various collective bargaining agreements and approximately 55% of whom were subject to job protection as members of trade unions, employee associations or workers’ councils. Approximately 61% of the employees subject to collective bargaining agreements (or approximately 14% of our total employees) were covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire prior to December 31, 2006. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew such collective bargaining agreements, or enter into new collective bargaining agreements which do not adversely affect our operating results and without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. In addition, approximately 90% of the employees subject to job protection as members of trade unions, employer associations or workers’ councils (or approximately 49% of our total employees) were subject to arrangements that expire prior to December 31, 2006. We cannot assure you that the terms of employment applicable to such employees will not change in a manner which adversely affects our operating results. We cannot assure you that we will not experience disruptions in our operations as a result of labor disputes or experience other labor relations issues. If we are unable to maintain good relations with our employees, our ability to produce our products and provide services to our customers could be reduced and/or our production costs could increase, either of which could disrupt our business and reduce our profitability. If we acquire other businesses, we may not be able to successfully integrate them into our operations and/or the expected benefits of such acquisitions may not be realized. Our growth strategy may include the acquisition of one or more businesses. Any such acquisition involves numerous risks, which may include: • difficulty in assimilating the operations, technologies, products and the key employees of the acquired businesses; • our inability to maintain the existing customers of the acquired business or succeed in selling the products or services of the acquired business to our existing customers; • a diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • our entry into markets in which competitors have a better established market position than the business we acquire; • the incurrence of significant expenses in completing the acquisitions; and • the assumption of significant liabilities, some of which may be unknown at the time of the acquisition. Our inability to successfully execute any acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Relating to our Capital Structure You may not receive any dividends. Dividend payments are not guaranteed and are within the absolute discretion of our board of directors. You may not receive any dividends as a result of any of the following factors: • we are not obligated to pay dividends; • our credit facility limits the amount of dividends we are permitted to pay; • while our current dividend policy contemplates the distribution of a substantial portion of the cash generated by our business in excess of the following: operating needs, reserves for contingencies, interest and principal payments on indebtedness, capital expenditures, restructuring expenses and tax 14 Table of Contents payments, as regular quarterly dividends to the holders of our common stock at an annual rate of up to $0.90 per share, our board of directors could modify or revoke the policy at any time and for any reason. Our dividend policy is based upon our current assessment of the cash needs of our business and the environment in which it operates. That assessment could change due to, among other things, changes in our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, growth opportunities, competitive or technological developments, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant; • even if the dividend policy is not modified or revoked, our board of directors could decide to reduce dividends or not to pay any dividends at all, at any time and for any reason; • the amount of dividends distributed is subject to state law restrictions; • our stockholders have no contractual or other legal right to dividends; • we may not have enough cash to pay dividends due to changes to our operating earnings, working capital requirements and other anticipated cash needs; and • our foreign subsidiaries may be subject to legal restrictions that prevent them from distributing cash to us to enable the payment of dividends. The reduction or elimination of dividends may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our credit facility prohibits us from paying dividends in the future if we do not improve our financial performance. Our credit facility restricts our ability to declare and pay dividends on our common stock. We may not pay dividends if a default or event of default under our credit facility has occurred and is continuing or would occur as a consequence of such payment. Our credit facility requires that we meet certain financial ratios in order to avoid a default or event of default under the facility. These covenants, as amended on February 8, 2006, are as follows: • Our interest coverage ratio as of the end of any period set forth below must exceed the ratio set forth for such period: Period Ratio Fiscal quarters ending December 31, 2005 through September 30, 2006 3.50:1 Fiscal quarters ending December 31, 2006 and March 31, 2007 4.00:1 Fiscal quarters ending June 30, 2007 through December 31, 2007 4.25:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2008 through December 31, 2008 4.50:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2009 through December 31, 2009 4.75:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2010 through December 31, 2010 5.00:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2011 and thereafter 5.25:1 15 Table of Contents • Our leverage ratio as of the end of any period set forth below must not exceed the ratio set forth for such period: Period Ratio Fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2005 4.50:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2006 through December 31, 2006 4.75:1 Fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2007 4.50:1 Fiscal quarters ending June 30, 2007 through December 31, 2007 4.25:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2008 and June 30, 2008 3.50:1 Fiscal quarters ending September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2008 3.25:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2009 through December 31, 2009 3.00:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010 2.75:1 Fiscal quarters ending September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2010 2.50:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2011 and June 30, 2011 2.25:1 Fiscal quarters ending September 30, 2011 and thereafter 2.00:1 • Our fixed charge coverage ratio as of the end of any period set forth below must exceed the ratio set forth for such period: Period Ratio Fiscal quarters ending September 30, 2005 through December 31, 2006 1.75:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2007 through December 31, 2007 1.85:1 Fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2008 and thereafter 1.90:1 For the four fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2005 our interest coverage ratio was 4.27:1, our leverage ratio was 4.24:1, and our fixed charge coverage ratio was 2.63:1. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be in compliance with such financial ratios. In order to be in compliance with such financial ratios in respect of the four fiscal quarters ending December 31, 2006, we will need to generate Adjusted EBITDA during such period that is nearly equal to the amount of Adjusted EBITDA we generated in 2005. Because the financial ratios become more restrictive over time, our financial performance will need to improve after 2006 in order for us to remain in compliance with the financial ratios in subsequent periods. Our ability to comply with the financial ratios may be affected by events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions, including unfavorable foreign currency movements relative to the US Dollar. For the periods after December 31, 2006, subject to our compliance with the financial ratios described above, we may pay dividends on each dividend payment date up to an amount that, when added to the amount of dividends paid on the three most recent prior quarterly dividend payment dates, does not exceed 75% of our pre-dividend free cash flow for the four fiscal quarters ended immediately prior to such dividend payment date. “Pre-dividend free cash flow” is defined in our credit facility as Adjusted EBITDA minus the sum of (i) net interest expense paid in cash, (ii) net cash taxes, (iii) cash capital expenditures (reduced by the amount of any asset sale, insurance or condemnation proceeds which we are permitted to retain in our business and any capital expenditures made with the proceeds of previously generated surplus cash and any capital expenditure used to expand press felt production capacity in Brazil in 2006 (up to $8.4 million) and 2007 (up to $8.2 million)), (iv) all scheduled debt repayments, (v) cash restructuring expenses (up to specified amounts per the credit facility) and (vi) cash payments of withholding taxes from proceeds of the repurchase, redemption or retention of our common stock relating to equity incentive awards. Giving pro forma effect to our initial public offering and the other related transactions, including the establishment of our credit facility in connection with the offering, as amended in February 2006, and the legal reorganization of a portion of our international operations, as if such transactions had been consummated immediately prior to January 1, 2005, we would have generated $52.7 million of pre-dividend free cash flow for the 2005 fiscal year. If the credit facility restriction based upon pre-dividend free cash flow were applicable for 2005, this level of pre-dividend free cash flow would permit maximum dividend payments in respect of any consecutive four fiscal quarter period of $39.5 million, which is greater than the approximately $39.4 million 16 Table of Contents necessary to pay dividends at a $.90 per share annual rate based upon 43,725,093 shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2005. We expect that in comparison to 2005, increased expenditures in 2006 for capital investment (not including additional capital expenditures of up to $8.4 million to expand press felt production capacity in Brazil that we expect to fund out of cash on hand at December 31, 2005) and payments of withholding taxes in respect of retained common stock relating to equity incentive awards will be offset by lower cash restructuring costs in 2006. The amount of our cash income tax costs in 2006 will be largely dependent on the geographies in which our income for 2006 is earned, and therefore if our Adjusted EBITDA for 2006 were at the same level as 2005, $155.5 million, cash income taxes for 2006 could be higher or lower than in 2005. Accordingly, our credit facility could prohibit us from paying dividends at a $0.90 per share annual rate when the pre-dividend free cash flow limitation on dividends applies if our financial performance does not improve. If necessary to enable us to pay dividends in accordance with our dividend policy, we would consider reducing our planned capital expenditures for 2006 to a level that would not adversely affect our ability to execute on our business plan in the near term. In addition, based upon our expected cash expenditures in 2006 (not including the additional capital expenditures of up to $8.4 million to expand press felt production in Brazil described above and a voluntary repayment of our senior debt in the amount of $5 million made in February 2006 out of cash on hand at December 31, 2005) and depending on the timing of those expenditures, in order to pay dividends at $.90 per share annual rate out of cash flow from operations, we may need to achieve financial performance at above 2005 Adjusted EBITDA levels. If our cash flow from operations are not sufficient to fund dividends, we would either need to reduce our dividend or, so long as permitted to do so under our credit facility, fund a portion of our dividends with cash on hand or borrowings under our credit facility or from other sources. We are subject to restrictive debt covenants that limit our business flexibility by imposing operating and financial restrictions on our operations. Our credit facility imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on our operations that may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. These restrictions will prohibit or limit, among other things: • the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the issuance of preferred stock and certain redeemable capital stock; • investments and acquisitions; • disposition of assets and subsidiary interests; • transactions with affiliates; • the creation of liens on our assets; • consolidations, mergers and transfers of all or substantially all of our assets; and • our ability to change the nature of our business. The terms of our credit facility include other restrictive covenants and prohibit us from prepaying our other indebtedness while indebtedness under the credit facility is outstanding. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand downturns in our business or take advantage of business opportunities. Our substantial indebtedness could restrict our ability to pay dividends with respect to shares of our common stock and impact our financing options and liquidity position. We have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2005, our total amount of outstanding debt, on a consolidated basis, was $649.1 million. The degree to which we are leveraged on a consolidated basis could have important consequences to the holders of our common stock, including: • we may not have sufficient funds available to pay dividends on our common stock; • we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; 17 Table of Contents • our ability in the future to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited; • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and be limited in our ability to withstand competitive pressures; and • our leverage may limit our flexibility to plan for and react to changes in our business or strategy. We may be able to incur substantially more debt, which would increase the risks described above associated with our substantial leverage. We may be able to incur a substantial amount of additional indebtedness in the future. The credit facility provides up to $50 million of borrowing under our revolving credit facility, of which $45.9 million was undrawn as of December 31, 2005, and for the incurrence of $20 million of additional indebtedness with respect to capital leases and purchase money obligations, $15 million of general additional indebtedness and certain other additional indebtedness, including, subject to the satisfaction of certain financial ratios on a pro forma basis after giving effect to such incurrence, up to $150 million of subordinated indebtedness incurred in connection with permitted acquisitions. The terms of any agreement under which we incur additional indebtedness could contain limitations on the payment of dividends which are more restrictive than the terms of our credit facility. Any additional indebtedness incurred by us could increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We will require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us, to service our debt and to fund our liquidity needs. Our ability to make payments on, refinance or repay our debt, to fund planned capital expenditures or to expand our business will depend largely upon our future operating performance. Our future operating performance is dependent upon our ability to execute our business strategy successfully. Such performance is also subject to general economic, financial and competitive factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our future operating performance will generate sufficient cash to support our cash requirements, or that we will not need to curtail or cease dividend payments, reduce capital expenditures or take other actions designed to conserve our cash in order to make payments required to service our indebtedness. Required payments with respect to our indebtedness and payments pursuant to our dividend policy will reduce the amount of funds available for other corporate purposes, which could harm our competitiveness and/or limit opportunities to grow our business. We expect that a significant portion of the cash generated by our business will be used to make required interest and principal payments under our credit facility. In addition, in accordance with our dividend policy, we currently intend to use a substantial portion of the remaining cash generated by our business, in excess of operating needs, reserves for contingencies, capital expenditures, restructuring expenses and tax payments, to pay dividends on our common stock, which will reduce the amount of funds available for other purposes. As a result: • we will have less funds available to devote to research and development, which could reduce our ability to develop new and innovative technologies and products and ultimately affect our ability to remain competitive; • we will have less funds available for capital expenditures, which could inhibit our ability to invest in new or upgraded production equipment and other capabilities, thereby restricting efforts to improve our manufacturing processes, reduce our operating costs, expand product offerings and/or conduct business in new markets; and • we will have reduced flexibility to finance growth opportunities, such as acquisitions, which could limit or cause us to forego future opportunities to grow our business. 18 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock has been volatile since our initial public offering and may continue to be volatile. Shares of our common stock may continue to experience substantial price volatility, including significant decreases, in response to a number of events, including: • our quarterly operating results; • sales of our common stock by principal stockholders; • issuances of our common stock by us; • the amount of dividends, if any, that we pay; • future announcements concerning our business; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock and/or changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • actions of competitors; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in U.S. and foreign government regulation; • general market, economic and political conditions; and • natural disasters, terrorist attacks and acts of war. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class action lawsuits filed against them. If a lawsuit were to be filed against us, regardless of the outcome, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2005, entities affiliated with Apax Europe IV GP Co. Ltd. (“Apax”) own approximately 52% of our common stock and will therefore have significant influence over our business and significant transactions. As a result entities affiliated with Apax owning approximately 52% of our common stock as of December 31, 2005, Apax and its affiliates have a strong ability to influence our business, policies and affairs. To the extent these entities continue to own in excess of 50% of our common stock, they will have the ability to control the outcome of all elections of directors and any stockholder vote regarding a merger or other extraordinary transaction. One representative of Apax serves on our seven-member board of directors, although Apax has no contractual rights to nominate any directors. We cannot assure you that the interests of Apax will be consistent with the interests of other holders of common stock. In addition, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, merger or tender offer, which would deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares of common stock and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Moreover, Apax either alone or with other existing equity investors could effectively receive a premium for transferring ownership to third parties that would not inure to the benefit of other inventors. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 