D. Risk Factors The following risk factors could materially and adversely affect our future operating results, and could cause actual events to differ materially from those predicted in our forward looking statements relating to our business. Risks Related to Our Business We do not expect to sustain our recent rates of growth in revenue. We have experienced significant growth in revenue since 2003. Our revenue increased 195.9% from $12.9 million in 2004 to $38.3 million in 2005, 179.8% from 2005 to $107.1 million in 2006 and 35.9% from 2006 to $145.5 million in 2007. Our revenue growth reflected a substantial increase in our shipments of baseband 8 Table of Contents semiconductors. Turnkey solutions have been used to help promote and enable the rapid adoption of our baseband processor solutions. In 2006, these strategic objectives for turnkey solutions had been achieved. We phased out our handset board business in 2006, and we intend to phase out our module business in 2008. We began to ship our standalone baseband semiconductors in large volume in the third quarter of 2005, and we expanded our customer base and gained market share for our standalone baseband semiconductors during 2006 and 2007. Our recent revenue growth rates reflect our success in establishing market acceptance of our baseband semiconductors. As we transition to becoming an established supplier of standalone baseband semiconductors, we do not expect to achieve similar rates of revenue growth in future periods. We have a history of losses and may not sustain or increase profitability in the future. We incurred net losses of $11.4 million in 2004 and $11.7 million in 2005. We have been profitable only since the first quarter of 2006, and we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability in the future. To sustain or increase profitability, we will need to continue to increase revenue while maintaining reasonable levels of costs and expenses. In addition, our competitors’ behavior and strategies may affect our margins. We expect our research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in anticipation of projected revenue growth. If our revenue does not increase at the same rate or at a greater rate than our expenses, we may incur losses in the future. If we do not sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly and annual basis or if we otherwise fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our ADSs will likely decline. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate and are difficult to predict, and if we do not meet financial expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our ADSs will likely decline. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our quarterly and annual revenues and profit margins may be significantly different from our historical or projected figures. Our quarterly and annual operating results in future periods may fall below expectations. Any of these events could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. Any of the risks described in this “Risk Factors” section, and in particular, the following factors, could cause our quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate from period to period: • our ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new or enhanced products in a timely manner; • the adoption of new wireless industry standards or changes in our regulatory environment; • the announcement or introduction of new or enhanced products by us or our competitors; • the unpredictable volume and timing of customer orders; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations and infrastructure; • the results of our acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses or assets; • changes in the relative mix in the unit shipments of our products, which have different average selling prices and profit margins; • changes in the average selling prices of our products; • changes in the availability of capacity of our semiconductor manufacturing service providers; and • the overall cyclicality of the semiconductor industry and seasonality in sales of wireless handsets into which our products are incorporated. 9 Table of Contents In addition, we base our planned operating expenses, including research and development expenses, hiring of additional personnel and investments in inventory, in part on our expectations of future revenue, and our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. If revenue for a particular quarter is lower than we expect, we may be unable to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that quarter, which would harm our operating results for that quarter. If our operating results in future quarters fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our ADSs will likely decline significantly. Because of our limited operating history and the fluctuations in our operating results, our historical operating results may not be useful to you in predicting our future operating results. We may not be able to compete effectively and increase or maintain revenue and market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or potential competitors. If we do not compete successfully, our market share and revenue may decline. We currently sell substantially all of our products to brand manufacturers, independent design houses, or IDHs, vendors who specialize exclusively in the design of wireless handsets based on customer specifications, and original design manufacturers, or ODMs, contract manufacturers who use their own designs and intellectual property to develop and manufacture wireless handsets for customers, and we primarily compete in China with baseband processor solutions providers, such as Infineon Technologies AG, or Infineon, MediaTek, Inc., or MediaTek, NXP Semiconductors, or NXP, and Texas Instruments Incorporated, or Texas Instruments. As we expand our business, we may compete in the future with additional baseband processor solutions providers, such as Broadcom Corporation, or Broadcom, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., or Freescale, and Qualcomm Incorporated, or Qualcomm. Most of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources, brand recognition and a larger base of customers than we do. This provides them with competitive advantages and their significantly greater resources may enable them to invest substantially more resources than us to respond to the adoption of new or emerging technologies or wireless industry standards or changes in customer requirements. In addition, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing or potential customers. Moreover, many of our competitors have been doing business with customers for a longer period of time and have established relationships, which may provide them with information regarding future trends and requirements that may not be available to us. Additionally, some of our larger competitors may be able to provide greater incentives to customers through rebates and marketing development funds and similar programs. Some of our competitors with multiple product lines may bundle their products to offer a broader product portfolio or integrate wireless functionality into other products that we do not sell, which may make it difficult for us to gain or maintain market share. Our future growth depends in part on building relationships and achieving additional design wins with leading international brand manufacturers. If we cannot establish these relationships and achieve future design wins, our ability to grow will be limited. We intend to pursue relationships with leading international brand manufacturers. We anticipate that these relationships will require us to make modifications to our products that involve significant technological challenges, as well as participate in lengthy field trials and extensive qualification programs. We cannot assure you that these efforts would result in a design win, where our product is incorporated into a customer’s initial product design, or that any such design win would lead to production orders. We also expect that these types of customers would place considerable pressure on us to meet their tight development schedules. In addition, these types of customers often require extensive, localized customer support, which will require us to significantly expand our customer support organization. We may have to devote a substantial amount of our limited resources to these relationships, which could detract from or delay our completion of other important development projects. Delays in development of these projects could impair our relationships with existing customers and negatively impact sales of the products under development. If we cannot achieve design wins in the future, our ability to grow will be limited. 10 Table of Contents We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers, and our ability to accurately forecast demand for and sales of our products is limited, which may result in excess or insufficient inventory and significant uncertainty and volatility with respect to our revenue from period to period. We sell a portion of our products to IDHs and ODMs, who integrate our baseband semiconductors into the wireless handsets they supply to their customers. We have limited visibility as to the volume of our products that our IDH and ODM customers are selling to their customers or carrying in their inventory. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers and our sales are made on the basis of individual purchase orders. Our customers may cancel or defer purchase orders. Our customers’ purchase orders may vary significantly from period to period, and it is difficult to forecast future order quantities. The lead time required by the semiconductor manufacturing service providers we use to manufacture, assemble and test our products is typically longer than the lead time that our customers provide to us for delivery of our products to them. Therefore, to ensure availability of our products for our customers, we typically ask our semiconductor manufacturing service providers to start manufacturing, assembling and testing our products based on forecasts provided by our customers in advance of receiving purchase orders. However, these forecasts are not binding purchase commitments, and we do not recognize revenue from these products until they are shipped to customers. Accordingly, we incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated revenue. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will continue to place purchase orders with us in the future at the same level as in prior periods or that the volume of our customers’ purchase orders will be consistent with our expectations when we plan our expenditures in advance of receiving purchase orders. Our anticipated demand for our products may not materialize. In addition, manufacturing based on customer forecasts exposes us to risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased product obsolescence, which may increase our costs. If we overestimate demand for our products or if purchase orders are cancelled or shipments delayed, we may incur excess inventory that we cannot sell. We expect to record inventory write-downs in the future as part of our normal course of business. Conversely, if we underestimate demand, we may not have sufficient inventory and may lose market share and damage customer relationships. Obtaining additional supply in the face of product shortages may be costly or impossible, particularly in the short term, which could prevent us from fulfilling orders. As a result, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period in the future. If TD-SCDMA is not widely adopted, or if the deployment of TD-SCDMA in China is slower than we expect, our growth will be adversely affected. We have invested substantial time and resources in developing products that support TD-SCDMA. The market for 3G wireless handsets that support TD-SCDMA is new and its potential is uncertain. The development of this market depends upon many factors, including the issuance of commercial TD-SCDMA licenses by the PRC government to mobile operators, the development and deployment of 3G wireless networks that support TD-SCDMA and the availability and commercial acceptance of 3G wireless handsets that support TD-SCDMA. Additionally, in May 2007, the Ministry of Information Industry further expanded the list of approved national 3G technology standards to include WCDMA and CDMA2000 in addition to TD-SCDMA, and it is possible that the addition of these other technology standards to such list of approved standards will affect the development and deployment of 3G networks that support TD-SCDMA. In addition, we cannot assure you that TD-SCDMA will be adopted by other countries as their 3G standard. China is one of the first countries that is testing 3G wireless networks that support TD-SCDMA, and if the market in China fails to develop successfully, the commercial acceptance and adoption of TD-SCDMA as a worldwide 3G standard likely will be affected adversely. We are unable to predict the growth rate, if any, of this market. Our growth depends in part upon the timely development of the market for 3G wireless handsets that support TD-SCDMA, which is affected by the wide adoption of TD-SCDMA and the deployment of TD-SCDMA in China. Even if the market for 3G wireless handsets that support TD-SCDMA develops, our success depends upon the selection by existing and potential customers of our products for use in their 3G wireless handsets. If this market does not develop in a timely manner or our products are not selected by customers, the growth and success of our business will be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents We may not be able to increase and maintain international market demand for our products. Substantially all of our sales currently are derived from customers in the PRC, Hong Kong and Macau, and the penetration of markets outside of these markets will be important to our future success. We may not be able to increase and maintain international market demand for our products. In addition, regulations or standards adopted by, or relevant patents issued by, other countries may require us to redesign our existing products, develop new products or obtain patent licenses to sell into those countries. For example, foreign governments may impose regulations or standards with which our baseband semiconductors do not comply, or may make frequencies available in bandwidths in which our products do not operate. In addition, we or our customers may be required to obtain patent licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Furthermore, to the extent we are unable to expand international operations in a timely and cost-effective manner in response to increased overseas demand, we may experience losses or declines in sales, which would negatively affect our revenue. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our international operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business and operating results will suffer. Our operating results may not meet market expectations due to reduced sales, delay or loss of significant customer orders, or delays in customer payments. Our top five customers for the year ended December 31, 2005 collectively accounted for 52.2% of our revenue for this period. For 2005, three customers each accounted for more than 10.0% of our revenue: 14.3%, 12.7% and 11.9%, respectively. Our top five customers for the year ended December 31, 2006 collectively accounted for 40.4% of our revenue. For 2006, one customer accounted for 14.5% of our revenue and no other single customer accounted for more than 10.0% of our revenue for such period. For 2007, two customers each accounted for more than 10.0% of our revenue: 37.1% and 10.6% respectively. If we fail to successfully sell our products to one or more of our significant customers in any particular period, if a large customer purchases fewer of our products, defers orders or fails to place additional orders with us, our revenue could decline, and our operating results may not meet market expectations. Also, many of our current customers are smaller companies and if those customers order our products, but fail to pay on time or at all, our operating results could be adversely affected. Furthermore, as we pursue relationships with leading international brand manufacturers, we may become dependent on a small set of customers as we focus our resources on those customers. If these customers purchase fewer products, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our lengthy sales cycle makes it difficult for us to forecast revenue and increases the variability of our operating results. We have a lengthy sales cycle that typically begins with our receipt of an initial request from a customer and ends when our customer executes a purchase order for production quantities. Our sales cycles typically range from four to nine months, depending on the type of customer. We typically need to obtain a design win, where our product is incorporated into a customer’s wireless handset design, to receive purchase orders. In some cases, due to the rapid growth of new wireless handset applications and products, this process can be time-consuming and requires substantial investment of our time and resources. During the four to nine-month sales cycle, our customers may need three to six months or longer to test, evaluate and design our products into their wireless handsets. Following a design win, our customers may need an additional one to three months or more to begin volume production of the wireless handsets that incorporate our products. There can be no assurances that a design win will result in volume shipments of our products. Additionally, we may commit our limited resources to a customer’s wireless handset design that does not result in volume shipments at the expense of other customers’ wireless handsets that could have resulted in volume shipments. Because of this lengthy sales cycle and the uncertainty regarding volume shipments of our products, it is difficult for us to forecast our revenue, which increases the variability of our operating results. In addition, it is possible that we may not generate sufficient, if any, revenue from these products to offset the selling and administrative costs and investment of resources in anticipation of customer orders. 12 Table of Contents Our success depends upon our customers’ ability to successfully sell their products. Our baseband semiconductors are incorporated into our customers’ wireless handsets. If any of our customers are unsuccessful in their wireless handset sales, whether due to lack of market acceptance of their products, shortage of component supplies, slowdown in sales of wireless handsets, excess inventory in the sales channels into which our customers sell their wireless handsets, changes in the wireless handset supply chain or otherwise, our sales of baseband semiconductors could be adversely affected. Accordingly, our success depends on our customers’ success in their business. Brand manufacturers, IDHs and ODMs have historically accounted for substantially all of our revenue. We are not certain whether these customers will be able to achieve success in their business and how long they will remain competitive in their business even if initially successful. If CMMB is not one of the mobile television standards deployed in China, or if the deployment of mobile television in China is slower than we expect, sales of our mobile television semiconductor product will be adversely affected. We have developed a mobile television processor solution that supports the CMMB mobile television standard. There are several competing mobile television standards in China. If CMMB is not deployed as one of China’s mobile television standards, sales of our mobile television semiconductor product will be negatively impacted. In addition, if the mobile television market does not develop in a timely manner or our mobile television semiconductor product is not selected by customers, the growth and success of our business in the mobile television market will be adversely affected. We depend on independent foundries to manufacture our products, and any failure to obtain sufficient foundry capacity could significantly delay our ability to ship our products and damage our customer relationships. Access to foundry capacity is critical to our business because we are a fabless semiconductor company. We currently rely on Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited, or TSMC, to manufacture most of our semiconductor products. Because we outsource our manufacturing, we face several significant risks, including: • lack of manufacturing capacity; • limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and control, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • the unavailability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies. The ability of foundries to provide us with semiconductors is limited by its available capacity. We do not have a guaranteed level of production capacity with foundries and it is difficult to accurately forecast our capacity needs. We do not have a long-term agreement with foundries and we place our orders on a purchase order basis. As a result, if foundries raise their prices or are not able to meet our required capacity for various reasons, including shortages, or delays in shipment, of semiconductor equipment or materials used by foundries to manufacture our semiconductors, or if our business relationship with any of the foundries we currently use deteriorates, we may not be able to obtain the required capacity from it and would have to seek alternative foundries, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or which may expose us to risks associated with qualifying new foundries. Using foundries with which we have no established relationships could expose us to potentially unfavorable pricing, unsatisfactory quality or insufficient capacity allocation. We place our orders on the basis of our customers’ purchase orders and sales forecasts; however, foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that customers of the foundries we currently use that are larger than we are, or that have long-term agreements with the foundries we currently use, may receive preferential treatment from the foundries in terms of capacity allocation. Reallocation of capacity by foundries to its other preferred customers could impair our ability 13 Table of Contents to secure the supply of semiconductors that we need, which could significantly delay our ability to ship our products, causing a loss of revenue and damage to our customer relationships. In addition, if we do not accurately forecast our capacity needs, foundries may not have available capacity to meet our immediate needs or we may be required to pay higher costs to fulfill those needs, either of which could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. For example, we underestimated our capacity requirements for the fourth quarter of 2005, and TSMC was unable to fulfill completely our needs for that quarter. The loss of the services of our independent assembly and testing service providers could significantly disrupt our shipments, harm our customer relationships and reduce our sales. We rely on two independent assembly and testing service providers, Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., or ASE, and Siliconware Precision Industries Co., Ltd., or SPIL, to assemble and test most of our semiconductors. As a result, we do not directly control our product delivery schedules, assembly and testing costs or quality assurance and control. We do not have a long-term agreement with ASE or SPIL that guarantees us access to capacity. We typically procure services from ASE or SPIL on a per-order basis. If ASE or SPIL experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, raises its prices, suffers any damage to its facilities, is acquired and restructures its business or terminates its relationship with us, or if there is any other disruption of assembly and testing capacity, we may have to seek alternative assembly and testing services, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or which may expose us to risks associated with qualifying new assembly and testing service providers. We currently estimate that it would take us several months to locate and qualify a new assembly and testing service provider. Because of the amount of time that it takes us to qualify third-party assembly and testing service providers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assembly and testing service providers for our products on short notice. In addition, we may be required to pay higher assembly and testing costs. Any problems that we may encounter with the delivery or quality of our products could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our primary foundry and assembly and testing service providers maintain facilities that are located in a region that is subject to earthquakes, typhoons and other natural disasters, as well as geopolitical risks and social upheaval. TSMC, the foundry upon which we currently rely to manufacture most of our semiconductors, and ASE and SPIL, the independent assembly and testing service providers upon which we currently rely to assemble and test most of our semiconductors, have substantial operations located in Taiwan. Taiwan is susceptible to earthquakes, typhoons, flood and other natural disasters, and has experienced severe earthquakes and typhoons in recent years that caused significant property damage and loss of life. In addition, TSMC, ASE and SPIL are subject to risks associated with uncertain political, economic and other conditions in Taiwan and elsewhere in Asia, such as political turmoil in the region and the outbreak of contagious diseases, such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, or any other epidemic such as avian flu. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could disrupt their operations, resulting in significant delays in deliveries or substantial shortages of our products and harm to our business. Increases to the prices charged by the foundries and assembly and testing service providers upon which we rely may adversely affect our business and operating results. The foundries and the independent assembly and testing service providers upon which we currently rely to manufacture, assemble and test our semiconductors have recently indicated that they intend to raise their prices. If they do so and we are unable to pass on the higher costs of manufacturing, assembly and testing to our customers, we will experience declines in our gross margins. 14 Table of Contents The recent Sichuan earthquake could impact the Chinese economy and could affect our business. In May 2008, a major earthquake struck Wenchuan in the Sichuan province in southwestern China, causing significant damage to the area, including in the major city of Chengdu. The earthquake and its aftershocks caused great loss of life, injuries, catastrophic property loss and disruption to the local economy. Some of our customers may have operations, suppliers, vendors or customers located in the Sichuan region, and we may experience an adverse impact to our business as a consequence. This earthquake or future geological occurrences could impact the Chinese economy and negatively affect our business. A significant earthquake or other geological disturbance in any of China’s other more populated cities and financial centers in the future could severely disrupt the Chinese economy, undermine investor confidence and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our products are becoming more complex and defects in our products could result in a loss of customers, decreased revenue, unexpected expenses, loss of market share and warranty claims. Our products are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. Products as complex as ours may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. For example, our products may contain errors that are not detected until after they are shipped because we cannot test for all possible scenarios. Errors or defects can arise due to design flaws, defects in materials or components or as a result of manufacturing difficulties, which can affect both the quality and the yield of the product. As our products become more complex, we face significantly higher risk of undetected defects. In addition, as our baseband semiconductors become more complex we may be limited in the number of wireless handsets that can utilize these components. Any errors or defects in our products, or the perception that there may be errors or defects in our products, could result in customers rejecting our products, damage to our reputation, lost revenue, diversion of development resources and increases in customer service and support costs and warranty claims. In addition, our agreements with some customers contain warranty provisions, which provide the customer with a right to damages if a defect is traced to our products or if we cannot correct errors reported during the warranty period. Our contractual limitations on our liability may be unenforceable in a particular jurisdiction. We do not have insurance coverage for any warranty or product liability claims, and a successful claim could require us to pay substantial damages. We may experience lower than expected manufacturing yields or limitations in designing with new process technologies, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. The manufacture of semiconductors is a highly complex process. Minute impurities in a silicon wafer can cause a substantial number of wafers to be rejected or cause numerous die on a wafer to be nonfunctional. Semiconductor companies often encounter difficulties in achieving acceptable product yields from their manufacturers. TSMC, the foundry upon which we rely to manufacture most of our products, has occasionally experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, including for our products. This often occurs during the production of new products or the installation and start-up of new process technologies. We may experience yield problems as we migrate our manufacturing processes to smaller geometries. If we do not achieve planned yields, our product costs would increase, and product availability would decrease. In addition, limitations inherent in new process technologies may affect the design, performance and functionality of our baseband semiconductors. For example, semiconductors designed with some of the current process technologies at more advanced geometries may experience power leakage, which increases power consumption and reduces battery life. As we develop baseband semiconductors on more advanced process geometries, we may not continue to fully integrate power management on a single semiconductor. The production of our baseband semiconductors using more advanced process geometries could be delayed, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. 15 Table of Contents Failure of suppliers to deliver on a timely basis sufficient quantities of components or materials or licensed software used in our products may result in delays or other disruptions in introducing or shipping our products, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Some of the components, materials and software used in our products are purchased or licensed from a single supplier and it is difficult for us to redesign our products to incorporate other components, materials or software. For example, we have incorporated digital signal processing cores licensed from CEVA Technologies Inc., or CEVA, RISC processor cores licensed from ARM Ltd., or ARM, 3G protocol stack software that we co-developed with Sasken Communication Technologies Limited, or Sasken, and 3G protocol stack software that we licensed from Chongqing Chongyou Xinke, or Chongyou. Loss or termination of the licenses for the cores or protocol stack software would have a material adverse impact on the manufacture of our products, and modifying our products for new cores or software will take a significant commitment of engineering time and resources and we may not be successful in doing so. If any vendor terminates our license to use the cores or software, or is unable to deliver components or materials used in our products, in accordance with our requirements, we may not be able to find alternative sources on favorable terms and in a timely manner, or at all. Our inability to find or develop alternative sources of components, materials and software, if and as required, could result in delays or other disruptions in introducing or shipping our products. If any of these events occur, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our success depends on the continuing efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel and on our ability to successfully attract, train and retain additional key personnel. Our future success depends heavily upon the continuing services of the members of our senior management team and various engineering and other technical personnel. In the first half of 2008, five members of our senior management team resigned as executive officers, three of whom, our former Chief Technology Officer, former Vice President of Operations and former Vice President of Sales, departed. Our engineers and other technical personnel are critical to our future technological and product innovations. If one or more of our senior executives or other key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all, and our business may be disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Any of these employees could leave our company with little or no prior notice and would be free to work for a competitor. In addition, if any member of our senior management team or any of our other key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, distributors, know-how and key professionals and staff members. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our employees. The loss of any of our key personnel or our inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineers and others, could delay the development and introduction of, and would have an adverse effect on our ability to sell, our products as well as our overall business and growth prospects. We may also incur increased operating expenses and be required to divert the attention of other senior executives to recruit replacement for key personnel. Our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent and the pool of qualified candidates is very limited. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain existing, or attract and retain new, qualified personnel, including senior executives and skilled engineers, whom we will need to achieve our strategic objectives. In addition, as we are still a young company and our business has grown rapidly, our ability to train and integrate new employees into our operations may not meet the growing demands of our business. We may not be able to manage effectively our expanding operations. Our employees increased from 316 as of December 31, 2004 to 768 as of December 31, 2007. We expect to expand our engineering team significantly in the near future. As we pursue relationships with leading international brand manufacturers and maintain and expand our relationships with our existing customers, suppliers and other third parties, we expect to expand our sales and customer support organization. In addition, to accommodate our growth, we will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including improvements to our record keeping and our accounting, contract 16 Table of Contents tracking, order processing, sales tracking, customer support and other internal management systems. All of these measures will require substantial management efforts and the dedication of additional resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement these measures successfully or effectively manage our growth. Any failure to do so may adversely and materially affect our business. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products if these claims are successful. In the course of our business, we may receive claims of infringement or otherwise become aware of potentially relevant patents or other intellectual property rights held by other parties. The wireless communications industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation for many companies, and a large number of companies that hold significant number of patents related to GSM, GPRS, CDMA and emerging 3G standards, such as TD-SCDMA, WCDMA/UMTS and CDMA2000, and related technologies. For example, in June 2007, we received a letter from Siemens AG, or Siemens, notifying us that Siemens claims to own certain essential patents covering the GSM/GPRS standard and offering to license such patents to us. We or our customers may be required to obtain licenses for such patents and if we need to license any such patents, we could be required to pay royalties on certain of our products. There can be no assurances that if we are required to obtain patent licenses to develop and sell our baseband semiconductors, we will be able to obtain such patent licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or if our customers are required to obtain such patent licenses, our customers’ businesses will not be adversely affected. Our inability to obtain these patent licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, products and services. In addition, third parties may claim that we or our customers are infringing or contributing to the infringement of their intellectual property rights. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. Because of the complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of litigation generally, any intellectual property litigation involves significant risks. Moreover, patent litigation has increased in recent years due to the increased numbers of cases asserted by intellectual property licensing entities and increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in our markets. If there is a successful claim of intellectual property infringement against us, we might be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement, refrain from further sale of our products, develop non-infringing technology or enter into costly royalty or license agreements on an on-going basis or indemnify our customers. However, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. Parties asserting infringement claims may also be able to obtain an injunction against development and sale of our products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property. Any intellectual property litigation or successful claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could harm our business and competitive position. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights, which may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property. As of May 31, 2008, we owned 35 patents and had 289 pending patent applications in China, we owned 17 patents and had 41 pending patent applications in the United States and we had 7 pending patent applications in Europe and 5 pending patent applications under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, or PCT. We acquired co-ownership of 17 patents and 14 pending patent applications in China. Enforcement of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been ineffective, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Policing any unauthorized use of our 17 Table of Contents intellectual property is difficult and costly and the steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us. In addition, others independently may develop similar proprietary information and techniques, gain access to our intellectual property rights, disclose such technology or design around our patents. A large number of third parties hold patents or have patent applications pending that relate to core technologies used in wireless communication standards, including CDMA, FDMA, OFDM, TDMA and emerging 3G standards. Additionally, we cannot assure you that any patent or registered trademark owned by us will be enforceable or will not be invalidated, circumvented or otherwise challenged in the PRC, the United States or other countries or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity of and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could harm our business, could ultimately be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights, and may result in our intellectual property rights being held invalid or unenforceable. Moreover, foreign intellectual property laws may not protect our intellectual property rights. Our participation in standards setting organizations and industry alliances may also require us to license some of our patents to our competitors and other third parties on a royalty-free basis or otherwise on fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory terms. We may be unable to limit to whom we license some of our technologies, and may be unable to restrict many terms of the license. In addition, our control over the application and quality of our technologies that are included in patent pools or otherwise necessary for implementing industry standards may be limited. Our intellectual property indemnification practices may adversely impact our business. We have agreed to indemnify some customers and parties from whom we license intellectual property for costs and damages of intellectual property infringement in some circumstances. This practice may subject us to significant indemnification claims by our customers or others. In addition to indemnification claims by our customers, we may also have to defend related third-party infringement claims made directly against us. Our semiconductors and turnkey solutions are designed for use in wireless handsets and other types of wireless devices used by potentially millions of consumers, which could subject us to considerable exposure should an infringement claim occur. We cannot assure you that such claims will not be pursued. Our acquisition of Quorum may be disruptive to our business and could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We completed our acquisition of Quorum Systems, Inc., or Quorum, in January 2008. This acquisition may require a significant amount of capital investment in the future, which would decrease the amount of cash available for working capital or capital expenditures. Our acquisition of Quorum entails a number of other risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, operating and financial results, including problems integrating Quorum’s personnel, operations, technologies or products into our existing business, need for financial resources above our planned investment levels, unknown and unforeseen assumed liabilities, potential write-offs of acquired assets and goodwill, potential expenses related to the amortization of intangible assets, the diversion of management resources from other strategic and operational issues, and the inability to retain key employees of Quorum. If we are unable to generate revenue from Quorum’s products in the near future, we may suffer financial losses as a result of Quorum’s on-going operating expenses, expenses related to the amortization of intangible assets from the Quorum acquisition, and additional share-based compensation expenses related to the Quorum acquisition. Our failure to address the risks associated with our acquisition of Quorum may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We may undertake acquisitions or investments to expand our business that may pose risks to our business and dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments. As part of our growth strategy, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire or invest in other businesses, intellectual property or technologies that would complement our current offerings, expand the breadth of markets we can address or enhance our technical capabilities. Acquisitions or investments that we may potentially make in the future entail a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, operating and financial results, including: • problems integrating the acquired operations, technologies or products into our existing business and products; • diversion of management’s time and attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers; • need for financial resources above our planned investment levels; • failures in realizing anticipated synergies; • difficulties in retaining business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired company; • risks associated with entering markets in which we lack experience; • potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; • potential write-offs of acquired assets; and • potential expenses related to the amortization of intangible assets. Our failure to address these risks may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any such acquisition or investment may require a significant amount of capital investment, which would decrease the amount of cash available for working capital or capital expenditures. In addition, if we use our equity securities to pay for acquisitions, our shareholders may experience dilution. If we borrow funds to finance acquisitions, such debt instruments may contain restrictive covenants that can, among other things, restrict us from distributing dividends. We do not have product liability, business disruption or other business insurance coverage. We do not have product liability, business disruption or other business insurance coverage for our operations in China or in the United States. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development and insurance companies in China currently offer limited business insurance products. In addition, we do not have any business insurance coverage for our operations to cover losses that may be caused by litigation or natural disasters. Any business disruption, product liability or warranty claim, litigation or natural disaster may result in our incurring substantial costs and diversion of resources. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our principal shareholders and affiliated entities. As of March 15, 2008, our directors, executive officers, principal shareholders and their affiliated entities owned approximately 36.20% of our outstanding ordinary shares. These shareholders, acting individually or as a group, can exert substantial influence over matters such as electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the trading price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Changes in industry standards, technology, customer requirements and government regulation could limit our ability to sell our products. The wireless handset market is characterized by changing end-user preferences and demand for new and advanced functions and applications on wireless handsets, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, intense competition, evolving industry standards and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. This requires us to continuously develop new products and enhance our existing products to keep pace with evolving industry standards and rapidly changing customer requirements. In order to encourage widespread market adoption of 2G, 2.5G and 3G technologies, efforts have been made to develop industry standards, and we have designed our products to comply with these standards. Changes in industry standards, or the development of new industry standards, may make our products obsolete or negate the cost advantages we believe we have in our products. To date, substantially all of our revenue has been derived from the sale of products that support 2G and 2.5G wireless standards such as GSM and GPRS. Continued market acceptance of these products and diversification of our product portfolio will be critical to our future success. As a result, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected by any decline in demand for our existing products, the introduction of products and technologies by our competitors that serve as a replacement or substitute for, or represent an improvement over, our existing products, technological innovations or new standards that our existing products do not address, or our inability to release enhanced versions of our existing products on a timely basis. We have begun to offer baseband semiconductors that support TD-SCDMA, an international 3G standard promoted by the PRC government, and are focusing a significant portion of our product design and sales and marketing efforts on products that comply with such standard. We also are devoting resources to the development of mobile television solutions and solutions that will support certain 2.5G wireless standards, including EDGE, and 3G wireless standards, including WCDMA/UMTS. If the wireless standards for which we are developing products are not widely adopted by the market, we may not be able to sell these 2.5G and 3G solutions and our revenue could decline. Because it is not practicable to develop products that comply with all current standards and standards that may be adopted in the future, our ability to compete effectively will depend on our ability to accurately select industry standards that will be widely adopted by the market and to design our products to support those relevant industry standards. We may be required to invest significant effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to address relevant standards. We may not have the financial resources to fund future innovations. If our products do not meet relevant industry standards that are widely adopted for a significant period of time, our revenue would decline, adversely affecting our operating results, business and prospects. The average selling prices of products in our markets have historically decreased rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross margins. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, the average selling price of a product historically declines significantly over the life of the product. In the past, we have reduced the average selling prices of our products in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and other factors. We expect that we will have to similarly reduce prices in the future for our mature products. Reductions in our average selling prices to one customer could also impact our average selling prices to all customers. A decline in average selling prices would harm our gross margins. Moreover, semiconductors have short product life cycles. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our costs, adding new features to our existing products or developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross margins. We may be adversely affected by the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry. Our industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has, from time to time, experienced significant downturns, often connected 20 Table of Contents with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies’ and their customers’ products and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any future downturns may reduce our revenue and result in us having excess inventory. Furthermore, any upturn in the semiconductor industry could result in increased competition for access to limited third-party foundry, assembly and testing capacity. Actual or perceived health risks associated with the use of wireless handsets, and the lawsuits and publicity relating to them, regardless of merit, could affect our operations negatively by leading consumers to reduce their use of wireless handsets. There has been public speculation about possible health risks to individuals from exposure to electromagnetic fields from base stations, the two-way radio installations that are used to communicate with wireless handsets, and from the use of wireless handsets. While a substantial amount of scientific research conducted to date by various independent research bodies has shown that radio signals, at levels within the limits prescribed by public health authority safety standards and recommendations, present no adverse effect to human health, we cannot be certain that future studies, irrespective of their relative reliability or trustworthiness, will not impute a link between electromagnetic fields and adverse health effects. Research into these issues is ongoing by governmental agencies, international health organizations and other scientific bodies in order to develop a better scientific understanding and public awareness of these issues. In addition, several wireless handset industry participants have become the targets of lawsuits alleging various health consequences as a result of wireless handset usage or seeking protective measures. While we are not aware of any scientific studies or objective evidence which substantiates these alleged health risks, we cannot assure you that the actual, or perceived, risks associated with radio wave transmission will not reduce wireless handset usage or cause us to allocate monetary and personnel resources to keep track of and manage these issues. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government or laws or regulations of the PRC could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Most of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various economic and political policies and laws and regulations to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Any adverse changes to these policies of the PRC government or the laws and regulations of the PRC could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Our business benefits from certain government incentives and grants. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives, reductions of these grants or changes in tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The PRC government has provided various incentives to companies incorporated in the PRC in the semiconductor industry, including our company, in order to encourage development of the industry. We have received government incentives in the forms of reduced tax rates, exemption from certain taxes, favorable lending policies, research grants and other measures. Our research and development expenses have been partially offset by subsidies, including grants we have received from PRC government authorities. The aggregate cash 21 Table of Contents amounts of the subsidies we received were RMB13.5 million (approximately $1.6 million), RMB10.3 million (approximately $1.3 million) and RMB4.3 million (approximately $587,000) in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, $1.2 million, $950,000 and $859,000 were recorded as offsets to research and development expenses incurred, respectively. There can be no assurances that we will receive any subsidies in the future. Additionally, our wholly-owned PRC subsidiary, Spreadtrum Shanghai, as a PRC integrated circuit design enterprise, or ICDE, is exempt from enterprise income tax for two years starting from 2007, the year in which it first had positive accumulated earnings, and is entitled to a 50% reduction in the enterprise income tax for the succeeding three years. Thereafter, Spreadtrum Shanghai may continue to receive certain preferential enterprise income tax treatment if it qualifies as a high-technology company especially supported by the PRC government. Spreadtrum Technology, as a foreign-invested enterprise, or FIE, incorporated in the Shanghai Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone, enjoyed a preferential enterprise income tax of 15% in 2007. Under China’s Enterprise Income Tax Law, which came into effect on January 1, 2008, Spreadtrum Technology is no longer entitled to this preferential tax rate, and is therefore subject to a 25% uniform tax rate starting in 2008. Under our current tax structure, this change will increase our effective tax rate in future years. Beijing Spreadtrum has also been subject to PRC income tax at a preferential tax rate of 15% as it is a high-technology company incorporated in the Zhongguancun Hi-Tech Park, and is entitled to exemption from income tax for the first three years from its incorporation date and a 50% tax rate reduction for the succeeding three years, subject to the approval of the tax authority. However, the PRC government authorities could reduce or eliminate these incentives at any time in the future. For more information regarding the Enterprise Income Tax Law and the Administrative Measures for Determination of High-Technology Enterprises, see “Item 5.A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Taxation—PRC Tax.” Since China joined the World Trade Organization, or WTO, in November 2001, some of its preferential tax treatments have been criticized as not being WTO-compliant. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress, the PRC legislature, approved and promulgated a new tax law named “Enterprise Income Tax Law,” which took effect beginning January 1, 2008. Under the new tax law, FIEs and domestic companies are subject to a uniform tax rate of 25%. The new tax law provides a five-year transition period starting from its effective date for those enterprises which were established before the promulgation date of the new tax law and which were entitled to a preferential lower tax rate under the then effective tax laws or regulations. In accordance with regulations issued by the State Council, the tax rate of such enterprises may gradually transit to the uniform tax rate within the transition period. For those enterprises which are enjoying tax holidays, such tax holidays may continue until their expiration in accordance with the regulations issued by the State Council, but where the tax holiday has not yet started because of losses, such tax holiday shall be deemed to commence from the first effective year of the new tax law. While the new tax law equalizes the tax rates for FIEs and domestic companies, preferential tax treatment would continue to be given to companies in certain encouraged sectors and to entities classified as high-technology companies supported by the PRC government, whether FIEs or domestic companies. According to the new tax law, entities that qualify as high-technology companies especially supported by the PRC government are expected to benefit from a tax rate of 15% as compared to the uniform tax rate of 25%. However, there can be no assurances that Spreadtrum Shanghai and Beijing Spreadtrum will continue to qualify as high-technology companies supported by the PRC government in the future, and benefit from such preferential tax rate. Following the effectiveness of the new tax law, our effective tax rate may increase, unless we are otherwise eligible for preferential treatment. The new tax law provides only a framework of the enterprise tax provisions, leaving many details on the definitions of numerous terms as well as the interpretation and specific application of various provisions unclear and unspecified. In addition, under the newly revised PRC Land Use Tax Tentative Regulations, since January 1, 2007, Spreadtrum Shanghai is subject to land use tax, levied on a yearly basis. Any increase in our tax rate in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes under the Enterprise Income Tax Law which became effective on January 1, 2008, which may subject us to PRC income tax for any dividends we receive from our non-PRC resident subsidiaries and PRC income tax withholding for any dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, enterprises established under the laws of non-PRC jurisdictions, but whose “de facto management body” is located in the PRC are treated as resident enterprises for PRC tax purposes. According to the Implementing Rules for the Enterprise Income Tax Law, “de facto management bodies” refer to “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” Due to the fact that a substantial portion of our management is currently based in the PRC, our Cayman Islands company and Hong Kong subsidiaries may be deemed as resident enterprises in the PRC. If we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income, which will include any dividend income we receive from our non-PRC resident subsidiaries, at the 25% uniform tax rate, which would have an impact on our effective tax rate and a material adverse effect on our net income and results of operations. Furthermore, unlike the Income Tax Law for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprise previously in effect, which specifically exempted withholding tax on any dividends payable to non-PRC investors, the new Enterprise Income Tax Law provides that a withholding tax of 10% will normally be applicable to dividends from earnings generated prior to 2008 payable to non-PRC investors which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such interest or dividends have their sources within the PRC. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” it is unclear whether the interest or dividends we pay with respect to our ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gain you realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. In addition, dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to our Hong Kong companies and ultimately to our Cayman Islands company, could be exempt from Chinese dividend withholding tax, and dividends from our Cayman Islands company to ultimate shareholders would be subject to PRC withholding tax at 10% or a lower treaty rate. Since we intend to reinvest our earnings to further expand our businesses in mainland China, our foreign invested enterprises do not intend to declare dividends to their immediate foreign holding companies in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2007, we have not recorded any withholding tax on the retained earnings of our foreign invested enterprises in China. If we are required under the new tax law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, your investment in us may be materially and adversely affected. Our subsidiaries in China are subject to restrictions on dividend payments, making other payments to us or any other affiliated company and borrowing or allocating tax losses among our subsidiaries. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands and we conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries in China. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries in China to pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our subsidiaries in China are required to set aside at least 10% of their respective accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds until such reserves have reached at least 50% of their respective registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, current PRC regulations prohibit inter-company borrowings or allocation of tax losses among subsidiaries in China. Further, if our subsidiaries in China incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. 23 Table of Contents Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenue effectively. Because a large portion of our revenue is denominated in RMB, any restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any business activities we may have outside China or to make dividend payments in U.S. dollars. The principal regulation governing foreign currency exchange in China is the Foreign Currency Administration Rules (1996), as amended. Under these rules, RMB are freely convertible for trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not for direct investment, loan or investment in securities outside China unless the prior approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, is obtained. Although the PRC government regulations now allow greater convertibility of RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain. For example, foreign exchange transactions under our subsidiary’s capital account, including principal payments in respect of foreign currency-denominated obligations, remain subject to significant foreign exchange controls and the approval of SAFE. These limitations could affect our ability to obtain foreign exchange for capital expenditures. We cannot be certain that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently-enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Recent PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents and employee stock options granted by overseas-listed companies may increase our administrative burden, restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity or otherwise adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy. If our shareholders who are PRC residents, or our PRC employees who are granted or exercise stock options, fail to make any required registrations or filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. SAFE has promulgated regulations that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. Under the SAFE regulations, PRC residents who make, or have previously made, direct or indirect investments in offshore companies, will be required to register those investments. In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to file or update the registration with the local branch of SAFE, with respect to that offshore company, any material change involving its round-trip investment, capital variation, such as an increase or decrease in capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, long-term equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. If any PRC shareholder fails to make the required SAFE registration or file or update the registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, 24 Table of Contents share transfer or liquidation, to their offshore parent company, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into their PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. We cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends or obtain foreign-exchange-denominated loans to our company. As it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our PRC employees who have been granted stock options are subject to the Stock Option Rule. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. Several of our PRC employees exercised their stock options prior to our becoming an overseas publicly-listed company. Since there is not yet a clear regulation on how and whether PRC employees can exercise their stock options granted by overseas private companies, it is unclear whether such exercises are permissible by PRC laws and it is uncertain how SAFE or other government authorities will interpret or administrate such regulations. Therefore, we cannot predict how such exercises will affect our business or operations. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval processes with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may affect our results of operations and financial condition. A recently adopted PRC regulation establishes more complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by foreign investors which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, or SASAC, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the CSRC, and SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the New M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The New M&A Rule established new procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, although we do not have any plans to do so at this time. Complying with the requirements of the New M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. 25 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the value of RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a managed band based on market supply and demand and by reference to a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in a 11.9% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and December 31, 2007. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which may result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. Although the majority of our revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars, a large portion of our revenue and most of our expenses are denominated in RMB. We use the U.S. dollar as the reporting currency for our financial statements. Any significant revaluation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenue, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in U.S. dollars. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. If the PRC government determines that we failed to obtain requisite PRC governmental approvals for, or register with the PRC government, our current and past import and export of technologies, we could be subject to sanctions. China imposes controls on technology import and export. The term “technology import and export” is broadly defined to include, without limitation, the transfer or license of patents, software and know-how, and the provision of services in relation to technology. Depending on the nature of the relevant technology, the import and export of technology require either approval by, or registration with, the relevant PRC governmental authorities. Spreadtrum Shanghai has licensed, or transferred, certain of its technologies to us, or other third parties outside of China, which license or transfer would constitute technology export under PRC laws. In addition, Spreadtrum Shanghai has entered into licenses with us and other third parties outside of China for certain technologies, which licenses would constitute the import of technology under PRC laws. Spreadtrum Shanghai has not obtained the approval of, or completed the applicable registration with, the relevant PRC governmental authorities for all of its import and export of these technologies. If Spreadtrum Shanghai is found to be, or has been, in violation of PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including, but not limited to, issuing a warning, levying fines, restricting us from remitting royalties or any other fees, if any, relating to these technologies outside of China, confiscating our earnings generated from the import or export of such technology or even restricting our future export and import of any technology. If the PRC government determines that our past import and export of technology were inconsistent with, or insufficient for, the proper operation of our business, we could be subject to similar sanctions. Any of these or similar sanctions could cause significant disruption to our business operations or render us unable to conduct a substantial portion of our business operations and may adversely affect our business and result of operations. We are obligated to withhold and pay PRC individual income tax on behalf of our employees who are subject to PRC individual income tax. If we fail to withhold or pay such individual income tax in accordance with applicable PRC regulations, we may be subject to certain sanctions and other penalties and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. Under PRC laws, we are obligated to withhold and pay individual income tax on behalf of our employees who are subject to PRC individual income tax. In the past, we delayed withholding and paying certain amounts of individual income tax for certain of our expatriate employees with respect to their salaries. We have paid such 26 Table of Contents amounts. Although the relevant tax authority has verbally advised us that it will not impose any sanctions on us for the delay in withholding and paying individual income tax, we cannot assure you that the tax authority will not act otherwise, we will not be subject to sanctions imposed on us by the tax authority or other governmental authorities or we will not be subject to other penalties. In addition, the State Administration of Taxation has issued several circulars concerning employee stock options. Under these circulars, our employees working in China (which could include both PRC employees and expatriate employees subject to PRC individual income tax) who exercise stock options will be subject to PRC individual income tax. Our PRC subsidiaries have obligations to file documents related to employee stock options with relevant tax authorities and withhold and pay individual income taxes for those employees who exercise their stock options. However, due to the difficulty in determining the fair market value of our shares prior to our initial public offering, and based on verbal advice we received from the relevant PRC tax authority, we did not withhold and pay the individual income tax for such exercises until after the closing of our initial public offering. We cannot assure you that the tax authority will not act contrary to its previous advice and impose sanctions on us. We face risks related to health epidemics and outbreaks of contagious diseases, including avian influenza and SARS. There have been recent reports of outbreaks of avian flu in certain regions of Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Africa. An outbreak of avian flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Additionally, a recurrence of SARS, similar to the occurrence in 2003, which affected PRC, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam and certain other countries, would also have similar adverse effects. Since substantially all of our operations and substantially all of our customers and suppliers are currently based in Asia (mainly the PRC), an outbreak of avian flu, SARS or other contagious diseases in Asia or elsewhere, or the perception that such outbreak could occur, and the measures taken by the governments of countries affected, including the PRC, would adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • conditions in the wireless communications industry; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies in the wireless communications industry; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of key personnel; • fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and the U.S. dollar; • intellectual property litigation; • release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ADSs or sales of additional ADSs; and • general economic or political conditions in China. 27 Table of Contents In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our ADSs, the market price for our ADSs and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our ADSs is influenced by research or reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our ADSs, the market price for our ADSs would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price for our ADSs or trading volume to decline. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, anticipated cash flow from operations and the net proceeds from our initial public offering will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the near future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Substantial future sales or the perception of sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ADSs, including those issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, in the public market, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. If any existing shareholder or shareholders sell a substantial amount of ordinary shares, the prevailing market price for our ADSs could be adversely affected. In addition, we may issue additional ordinary shares or ADSs for future acquisitions. If we pay for our future acquisitions in whole or in part with additionally issued ordinary shares or ADSs, your ownership interests in our company would be diluted and this, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. Holders of our ADSs may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. Upon our written request, the depositary will provide you with a shareholder meeting notice which contains, among other things, a statement as to the manner in which your voting instructions may be given, including an express indication that such instructions may be given or deemed given to the depositary to give a 28 Table of Contents discretionary proxy to a person designated by us if no instructions are received by the depositary from you on or before the response date established by the depositary. However, no voting instruction shall be deemed given and no such discretionary proxy shall be given with respect to any matter as to which we inform the depositary that we do not wish such proxy given, substantial opposition exists, or such matter materially and adversely affects the rights of shareholders. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your ability to protect your rights through the United States federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, conduct substantially all of our operations in China and a majority of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through Spreadtrum Shanghai. A majority of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these directors and officers in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in effecting service of process and bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. Moreover, the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder, as Cayman Islands law provides substantially less protection when compared to the laws of the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2004 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court 29 Table of Contents in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands have a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provide significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the United States federal courts. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against us or our officers, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. We have had significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in the past and cannot assure you that additional deficiencies or material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the United States securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, has adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for the year ending December 31, 2008. Our management may conclude that our internal control over our financial reporting is not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still decline to issue an unqualified report if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. In conjunction with the audit of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2007, we identified significant deficiencies and control deficiencies involving our internal control over financial reporting. The identified significant deficiencies relate to lack of formal accounting policies and procedures for the accounting and review of non-standard transactions or accounts. Material weaknesses may be identified during the audit process or for other reasons. During the course of the evaluation, documentation and attestation, we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify weaknesses and deficiencies that we may not be able to remedy in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with Section 404. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. If we fail to timely achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control, on an ongoing basis, over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 30 Table of Contents Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our articles of association contain provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company. These provisions could deprive our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the prevailing market price by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transactions. Our new articles include the following provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company: • Our board of directors has the authority, without approval by the shareholders, to issue up to a total of 15,000,000 preference shares in one or more series. Our board of directors may establish the number of shares to be included in each such series and may fix the designations, preferences, powers and other rights of the shares of a series of preference shares, which may be greater than the preferences, powers and other rights of the ordinary shares represented by our ADSs. • Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the increase of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents shareholders from having the sole right to fill vacancies on our board of directors. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequence to United States holders. A non-United States corporation will be considered a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (generally based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. PFIC status depends on the composition of our assets and income and the value of our assets (including, among others, a pro rata portion of the income and assets of each subsidiary in which we own, directly or indirectly, at least 25% (by value) of the equity interest) from time to time. Because we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash or cash equivalents, and, because the calculation of the value of our assets may be based in part on the value of our ADSs, which is likely to fluctuate (and may fluctuate considerably given that market prices of technology companies historically have been especially volatile), we may be a PFIC for any taxable year. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a United States holder held an ADS or an ordinary share, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to the United States holder. We do not believe we were a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2007. Based on the current price of our ADSs, and the composition of our income and assets, we do not expect to be considered a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2008. However, we must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a PFIC (after the close of each taxable year) and we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2008 or any future taxable year. 