ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may occasionally make forward-looking statements and estimates such as forecasts and projections of our future performance or statements of our plans and objectives. These forward-looking statements may be contained in, among other things, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, press releases made by us and in oral statements made by our officers. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those contained in such forward-looking statements include, among other things, the risks described below. Risks Relating to our Business and the Industry A sustained downturn in the paper industry, compounded by uncertainty in global economic conditions, could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Historically, demand for our products has been driven primarily by the volume of paper produced on a worldwide basis. The profitability of paper producers has historically been highly cyclical due to wide swings in the price of paper, driven to a high degree by the oversupply of paper during periods when paper producers have more aggregate capacity than the market requires. A sustained downturn in the paper industry, either globally or in a particular region, can cause paper manufacturers to reduce production or cease operations, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Since 2000, paper producers have taken actions that seek to structurally improve the balance between the supply of and demand for paper. As part of these efforts, they have shut down many paper-making machines. Between 2001 and 2004 the bulk of these closures occurred in North America. Announcements by paper producers concerning temporary and permanent shutdowns of paper-making machines in both North America and Western Europe have continued. During 2005 through 2008, the sales and profitability of our North American and European operations were adversely affected by these shutdowns. Papermakers continue to experience low levels of profitability, and we believe that further consolidation among papermakers, reducing the number of paper producers, and shutdowns of paper-making machines will occur in Europe and North America, until there is a better balance between supply and demand for paper and the profit levels of paper producers improve. Over a number of years, consumption growth of paper is expected to drive an increase in the global production rates required to maintain balance between supply and demand although it is likely that a consumption slow-down and related effect on global paper production will occur in the near term. Global paper production growth that does occur would be moderated by the level of industry consolidation and paper-machine shutdown activity that is a continuing underlying trend in North America and Western Europe. We also believe that, in addition to industry consolidation and paper machine shutdown activity in North America and Western Europe, the trend towards new paper machine designs which have fewer rolls and market recognition of extended life of our roll cover products has been and will continue to negatively impact demand 15 Table of Contents for these products and that the volume potential for the roll covers business in North America and Western Europe will slowly diminish. Additionally, we are seeing a trend that paper producers are placing an increasing emphasis on maintenance cost reduction and, as a result, are extending the life of roll covers through additional maintenance cycles before replacing them. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions could further impact these trends in the paper industry, causing decreased demand for paper products and additional shutdowns of papermaking machines. In addition, the global financial crisis has tightened the availability of credit, which could make it more difficult for our customers to finance their business activities or pay their debts. Thus, the effects of the current global economic environment on the paper industry could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to reorganize our operations in response to changing conditions in the paper industry, and such actions may require significant expenditures and may not be successful. In the past few years, we have undertaken various restructuring measures in response to changing market conditions in the paper industry triggered by the decline in paper prices that began in 2001. For example, between January 1, 2003 and December 31, 2008, we incurred costs of approximately $72 million in connection with our cost reduction programs including the closure of twelve manufacturing facilities worldwide. We experienced added operating costs resulting from shifting production from certain of our closed facilities to other facilities which adversely impacted our cost of sales by approximately $6.4 million, $5.0 million and $0.1 million in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. In connection with any future plant closures, delays or failures in the transition of production from a closed facility to our other facilities could also adversely affect our financial operations. We may engage in additional cost reduction programs in the future. We may not recoup the costs of programs we have already initiated, or other programs we may in the future decide to engage in, the costs of which may be significant. In addition, our profitability may decline if our restructuring efforts do not sufficiently reduce our future costs while at the same time positioning us to maintain or increase our sales. We also expect to implement cost reduction programs in 2009, primarily in North America and Europe, to improve our manufacturing footprint to match market conditions and efficiencies in our operations. We are targeting restructuring expenses of approximately $5 to $6 million during 2009, primarily related to headcount reductions resulting from the integration of the regional management structure in North America and similar actions in Europe. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Cost Reduction Programs”. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and compliance with our debt covenants. Our foreign operations expose us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and currency devaluations. We report our financial results in U.S. Dollars, but a substantial portion of our sales, expenses and debt are denominated in Euros and other currencies. As a result, changes in the relative values of U.S. Dollars, Euros and other currencies will affect our levels of sales and profitability. A decrease in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to the value of the Euro and these other currencies will affect our financial results since the translation of a certain number of Euros or units of such other currencies into U.S. Dollars for financial reporting purposes will represent more U.S. Dollars. We would expect an opposite effect in a period in which the value of the U.S. Dollar increases. In addition, in the case of sales to customers in certain locations, our sales are denominated in U.S. Dollars or Euros but all or a substantial portion of our associated costs are denominated in a different currency. As a result, changes in the relative values of U.S. Dollars, Euros and any such other currency will affect our profitability. Although in certain circumstances we attempt to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, our hedging strategies may not be effective. In addition, our credit facility contains financial covenants that require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Credit Facility”. Our ability to 16 Table of Contents comply with these covenants will depend in part upon our reported financial results, which as indicated above are directly affected by currency fluctuations. For example, in the event the value of the U.S. Dollar increases relative to the Euro and other currencies in which we conduct business (and ignoring any other changes affecting our financial performance), the amount of our Adjusted EBITDA will decline. Since each of the financial ratio covenants in our credit facility is calculated by reference to the amount of our Adjusted EBITDA, currency fluctuations alone could lower the amount of our Adjusted EBITDA and therefore affect our ability to remain in compliance with our financial ratio covenants. While we have certain indebtedness denominated in foreign currencies, to reduce the volatility of these measurements to the U.S dollar/euro relationship, Amendment 5 to our credit facility provides that for the purposes of computing debt, which is a part of the calculation of the leverage ratio, indebtedness which is payable in Canadian Dollars or Euros shall be converted into Dollars using the average exchange rate for the period of four consecutive Fiscal Quarters ended March 31, 2008. Accordingly, if the value of the U.S. Dollar increases relative to the Euro or the Canadian Dollar and our Adjusted EBITDA declines as a result of this currency effect, there would not be a corresponding decrease in the amount of our debt for purposes of the maximum leverage ratio covenant calculation. For additional information about the risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Foreign Exchange”. Increased price competition in our industry could adversely affect our gross margins and net sales. Historically, we and our competitors have been able to sell clothing and roll covers products and services at favorable prices that reflect the value they deliver to customers. This favorable pricing has been particularly available for our more technologically advanced products, such as forming fabrics, press felts and roll covers. In 2007 and 2008, the financial health of our customers and continued pricing pressure from our competitors required us to reduce prices in some cases, and eliminate or decrease the size of proposed price increases in other cases, resulting in price decreases in both of our business segments. Further pricing pressure from our competitors may require further price decreases or make us unable to effect planned price increases and, thereby, adversely affect our profitability. Our industry is competitive and our future success will depend on our ability to effectively develop and market competitive products. The paper-making consumables industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors are larger than us, have greater financial and other resources and are well-established as suppliers to the markets we serve. In addition, some of our competitors also manufacture paper-making machines and have the ability to initially package sales of their clothing and roll cover products with the sale of their machines and/or to tie the warranties on their machines to the use of their clothing and roll cover products. Our products may not be able to compete successfully with the products of our competitors, which could result in a loss of customers and, as a result, decreased sales and profitability. We compete primarily based on the value our products deliver to our customers. Our value proposition is based on a combination of price and the technology and performance of our products, including the ability of our products to help reduce our customers’ production costs and increase the quality of the paper they produce. Our competitors could develop new technology or products that lead to a reduced demand for our products. In addition, our business depends on our customers regularly needing to replace the clothing and roll covers used on their paper-making machines. Either we or our competitors could develop new technologies that increase the useful life of clothing or roll covers, which could reduce the frequency with which our customers would need to replace their clothing and refurbish or replace their roll covers, and consequently lead to fewer sales. Because we have substantial operations outside the United States, we are subject to the economic and political conditions of foreign nations. We have manufacturing facilities in 13 foreign countries. In 2008, we sold products in approximately 62 countries other than the United States, which represented approximately 73% of our net sales. We operate in a number of foreign countries and may face challenges unique to those countries such as in hiring employees, our relations with various parties, including suppliers and governmental agencies, and in production. Furthermore, 17 Table of Contents we may decide to do business in countries where we have not previously done business, such as our decisions with respect to Vietnam, where we began construction of a clothing manufacturing facility in the fourth quarter of 2007 and discontinued such construction as of December 1, 2008, and China, where we acquired a roll covers manufacturing business in November 2007. In such countries we face the additional uncertainty of entering a new market and its social customs, laws and practices. Should these challenges be realized, our operating results could be adversely impacted and our business or production may be delayed. Our foreign operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including risks that: • foreign governments may impose limitations on our ability to repatriate funds; • foreign governments may impose withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to us, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; • an outbreak or escalation of any insurrection or armed conflict may occur; or • foreign governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting our business. The occurrence of any of these conditions could disrupt our business in particular countries or regions of the world, or prevent us from conducting business in particular countries or regions, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, as a holding company we will rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from our subsidiaries to meet our debt obligations. If foreign governments impose limitations on our ability to repatriate funds or impose or increase taxes on remittances or other payments to us, the amount of dividends and other distributions we receive from our subsidiaries could be reduced, which could reduce the amount of cash available to us to meet our debt obligations. We must continue to innovate and improve our products to maintain our competitive advantage. Our ability to retain our customers and increase our business depends on our ability to continually develop new, technologically superior products. We cannot assure that our investments in technological development will be sufficient, that we will be able to create and market new products, that such new products will be accepted by our customers or that we will be successful in competing against new technologies developed by competitors. We believe that market recognition of the extended life of our roll cover products and the trend towards new paper-making machine designs which have fewer rolls will continue to negatively impact the demand for our roll cover products. We have seen a trend that paper producers are placing an increasingly strong emphasis on maintenance cost reduction and, as a result, are extending the life of roll covers through additional maintenance cycles before replacing them. Market recognition of the extended life of our roll covers products negatively impacts the demand for these products. In addition, we have seen a trend towards new paper-making machine designs which have fewer rolls, also negatively impacting the demand for our roll cover products. If we are not able to offset these negative impacts on the demand for our roll cover products with growth from new roll cover products, the sale of roll cover products in regions which we believe have high growth potential such as China, or from other sources, the volume of our roll cover sales will be adversely affected. Our capital expenditures in 2008 were less than those in 2007 and we expect capital expenditures in 2009 to be lower than in 2008; this planned reduction in capital expenditures could negatively impact our ability to take advantage of growth opportunities. We began construction of a clothing manufacturing facility in Vietnam in the fourth quarter of 2007. In the first quarter of 2008, we determined to slow the pace of planned capital expenditures for the Vietnam facility and cancelled or rescheduled certain other previously planned capital expenditures. This reduction in capital expenditures could impact our ability to achieve growth. In December 2008, we discontinued the construction of 18 Table of Contents the clothing manufacturing facility in Vietnam and announced the closing of our Australian production facility by the end of the first quarter of 2009. The Vietnam facility was planned to provide a source of products to serve markets in Asia, which we expect to grow faster than more developed markets, and provide products with lower manufacturing costs for certain other markets. If we are not able to accommodate the production provided or planned to be provided by these facilities through our other facilities, our ability to take advantage of the growth potential of clothing products in Asia or to reduce the cost at which we produce products may be negatively impacted. Due to our assessment of the impact of the global economic crisis on our customers and our industry, we are currently evaluating additional capital expenditure reductions. The loss of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Our top ten customers generated 24% of our net sales during 2008. The loss of one or more of our major customers, financial difficulties faced by our customers or a substantial decrease in such customers’ purchases from us, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. For example, two of our major customers, who collectively represent approximately 5% of 2008 revenues, have had recent financial difficulties. One of them filed for bankruptcy protection in January 2009 and we believe the other may be facing liquidity issues and potential credit refinancing during 2009. We have fully reserved for amounts due from these customers, however, decreases in orders from these customers or future payment problems from these or other customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Because we do not generally have binding long-term purchasing agreements with our customers, there can be no assurance that our existing customers will continue to purchase products from us. We may fail to adequately protect our proprietary technology, which would allow competitors or others to take advantage of our research and development efforts. We rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how, and continuing technological innovation to develop new products and remain competitive. If our competitors learn of our proprietary technology, they may use this information to produce products that are equivalent or superior to our products, which could reduce the sales of our products. Our employees, consultants, and corporate collaborators may breach their obligations not to reveal our confidential information, and any remedies available to us may be insufficient to compensate our damages. Even in the absence of such breaches, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how may otherwise become known to our competitors, or be independently discovered by our competitors, which could adversely affect our competitive position. We may be liable for product defects or other claims relating to our products. Our products could be defective, fail to perform as designed or otherwise cause harm to our customers, their equipment or their products. If any of our products are defective, we may be required to recall the products and/or repair or replace them, which could result in substantial expenses and affect our profitability. Any problems with the performance of our products could harm our reputation, which could result in a loss of sales to customers and/or potential customers. In addition, if our customers believe that they have suffered harm caused by our products, they could bring claims against us that could result in significant liability. A failure of our products could cause substantial damage to a paper-making machine. Any claims brought against us by customers may result in: • diversion of management’s time and attention; • expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, expenses, and payment of damages; • decreased demand for our products and services; and • injury to our reputation. Our insurance may not sufficiently cover a large judgment against us or a large settlement payment, and is subject to customary deductibles, limits and exclusions. 19 Table of Contents We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under laws protecting the environment and human health. Our operations and facilities are subject to a number of national, state and local laws and regulations protecting the environment and human health in the United States and foreign countries that govern, among other things, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, discharges of pollutants into the air and water and workplace safety. The U.S. federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended (“CERCLA”) provides for responses to, and, in some instances, joint and several liability for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Environmental laws also hold current owners or operators of land or businesses liable for their own and for previous owners’ or operators’ releases of hazardous or toxic substances, materials or wastes, pollutants or contaminants, including petroleum and petroleum products. Because of our operations, the history of industrial uses at some of our facilities, the operations of predecessor owners or operators of some of the businesses, and the use and release of hazardous substances at these sites, the liability provisions of environmental laws may affect us. Many of our facilities have experienced some level of regulatory scrutiny in the past and are or may be subject to further regulatory inspections, future requests for investigation or liability for regulated materials management practices. We cannot assure that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with all laws and regulations applicable to us which are designed to protect the environment and human health. We could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and third party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws, relevant common law or the environmental permits required for our operations. We are currently conducting environmental remediation projects at certain of our sites, and we have been identified as a potentially responsible party under CERCLA or similar state requirements for several off-site locations. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, we paid $2.8 million, $2.5 million and $2.1 million, respectively, in connection with the environmental remediation of certain of our facilities. We believe that this environmental remediation is substantially complete. In the third quarter of 2008, we accrued $4.1 million for environmental remediation costs associated with our facility in Australia. We do not expect any significant further remediation costs to be incurred in connection with these matters and believe that any additional liability in excess of amounts provided which may result from the resolution of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or cash flow. Adverse labor relations could harm our operations and reduce our profitability. As of December 31, 2008, we had 3,648 employees, approximately 20% of whom were subject to protection of various collective bargaining agreements and approximately 52% of whom were subject to job protection as members of trade unions, employee associations or workers’ councils. Approximately 50% of the employees subject to collective bargaining agreements (or approximately 10% of our total employees) were covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire prior to December 31, 2009. We cannot be certain that we will be able to renew such collective bargaining agreements, or enter into new collective bargaining agreements, which do not adversely affect our operating results and that we will be without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. In addition, approximately 57% of the employees are subject to job protection as members of trade unions, employee associations or workers’ councils (or approximately 29% of our total employees) for which arrangements expire prior to December 31, 2009. We cannot be certain that the terms of employment applicable to such employees will not change in a manner which adversely affects our operating results. We cannot be certain that we will not experience disruptions in our operations as a result of labor disputes or experience other labor relations issues. If we are unable to maintain good relations with our employees, our ability to produce our products and provide services to our customers could be reduced and/or our production costs could increase, either of which could disrupt our business and reduce our profitability. 20 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully integrate businesses we have acquired or may acquire in the future into our operations and/or the expected benefits of such acquisitions may not be realized. In November 2007, we acquired a privately held roll covers business in China, a country in which we have not previously operated manufacturing facilities. Any such acquisition involves numerous risks, which may include: • difficulty in assimilating the operations, technologies, products and key employees of the acquired businesses; • our inability to maintain the existing customers of the acquired business or succeed in selling the products or services of the acquired business to our existing customers; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • our entry into regions in which we have not operated in the past where better established competitors may have more experience with the market, political, regulatory and economic environment; • our entry into markets in which competitors have a better established market position than the business we acquire; • the incurrence of significant expenses in completing the acquisitions; and • the assumption of significant liabilities, some of which may be unknown at the time of the acquisition. Our inability to successfully execute any acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Relating to our Capital Structure We do not anticipate paying a dividend on our common stock in the foreseeable future, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our credit facility prohibits the payment of dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, we do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. The lack of dividend payments may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our credit facility requires that we meet certain financial ratios in order to avoid a default or event of default under the facility. Our credit facility requires that we meet certain operating requirements and financial ratios in order to avoid a default or event of default under the facility. For the period ended March 31, 2008, we did not satisfy our leverage ratio covenant as in effect at that time, and our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in its report on our 2007 consolidated financial statements related to the uncertainty in our ability to continue as a going concern. Absent a waiver, these matters would constitute defaults under our credit facility. On April 8, 2008, we entered into an amendment and waiver agreement with our lenders relating to our credit facility pursuant to which the lenders agreed to waive through May 31, 2008 any past and then existing defaults. On May 30, 2008, prior to the expiration of the waiver, we entered into an amended credit facility. As a result of the amendment and restatement of our senior credit facility, on August 4, 2008, our independent registered public accounting firm reissued its report relating to our financial statements as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007 to remove the explanatory paragraph with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern and to insert an emphasis paragraph that the conditions that raised substantial doubt about whether we will continue as a going concern no longer exist. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Credit Facility” for a description of the amended financial ratio covenants. There can be no assurance that we will be in 21 Table of Contents compliance with such financial ratios in future periods. For example, if our business declines dramatically as a result of the effect of the global economic crisis on the paper industry, it could cause us to fall out of compliance with the financial ratios in our credit facility. Our credit facility contains restrictive debt covenants that limit our business flexibility by imposing operating and financial restrictions on our operations. Our credit facility imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on our operations that may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. These restrictions prohibit or limit, among other things: • the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the payment of cash dividends and the issuance of certain redeemable capital stock; • investments and acquisitions; • disposition of assets and subsidiary interests; • transactions with affiliates; • the creation of liens on our assets; • consolidations, mergers and transfers of all or substantially all of our assets; and • our ability to change the nature of our business. The terms of our credit facility include other restrictive covenants and prohibit us from prepaying our other indebtedness while indebtedness under the credit facility is outstanding. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand downturns in our business or take advantage of business opportunities. We will remain highly leveraged for the foreseeable future, which could impact our financing options and liquidity position. We have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2008, our total amount of outstanding debt, on a consolidated basis, was $617.0 million. The degree to which we are leveraged on a consolidated basis could have important consequences to the holders of our common stock, including: • we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; • our ability in the future to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited; • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and be limited in our ability to withstand competitive pressures; and • our leverage may limit our flexibility to plan for and react to changes in our business or strategy. We will continue to require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us, to service our debt and to fund our liquidity needs. Our ability to make payments on, refinance or repay our debt, to fund planned capital expenditures or to expand our business will depend largely upon our future operating performance. Our future operating performance is dependent upon our ability to execute our business strategy successfully. Such performance is also subject to general economic, financial and competitive factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our future operating performance will generate sufficient cash to support our cash requirements, or that we will not need to reduce capital expenditures or take other actions designed to conserve our cash in order to make payments required to service our indebtedness. 22 Table of Contents Required payments with respect to our indebtedness will reduce the amount of funds available for other corporate purposes, which could harm our competitiveness and/or limit opportunities to grow our business. As a result of the May 30, 2008 amendment to our credit facility, we expect that in the foreseeable future a significantly greater portion of the cash generated by our business will be used to make required interest and principal payments under our credit facility. For example, based upon our current level of indebtedness and assuming no decrease in the applicable margin, we expect that both interest expense and scheduled debt principal payments will decrease by approximately $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 2008 and that interest expense will decrease by approximately $3 million and scheduled debt payments will increase by approximately $5 million, respectively for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to 2009. We may be required to make additional debt repayments based on “excess cash”, as defined in the credit agreement. As a result of these required payments: • we will have less funds available to devote to research and development, which could reduce our ability to develop new and innovative technologies and products and ultimately affect our ability to remain competitive; • we will have less funds available for capital expenditures, which could inhibit our ability to invest in new or upgraded production equipment and other capabilities, thereby restricting efforts to improve our manufacturing processes, reduce our operating costs, expand product offerings and/or conduct business in new markets; and • we will have reduced flexibility to finance growth or expansion opportunities, which could limit or cause us to forego future opportunities to grow our business. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our liquidity, operating expenses and results. In addition, our senior credit facility has, and likely any replacement credit facility will have, a variable interest rate. As of December 31, 2008, the outstanding principal amount of the term loan portion of the credit facility was $606.2 million. On November 16, 2007, we entered into interest rate swaps that effectively fixed, from a cash flow perspective, the interest rate on approximately 85% of the term loan portion of our credit facility through 2010. As of December 31, 2008, the weighted average interest rate on the effectively fixed portion of the term loan facility was 9.74%; the weighted average interest rate on the portion of the term loan facility not effectively fixed by interest rate swap contracts, based on the 90-day LIBOR, was 7.55%. As a result of the amendment of our senior credit facility agreement on May 30, 2008, the applicable margin for LIBOR term loans, LIBOR revolving loans, Euribor loans and CDOR loans under our senior credit facility increased from 2.75% to 5.50%. We estimate that a 1% increase in the LIBOR rate would increase our interest expense on the term debt by approximately $0.9 million on an annual basis through December 31, 2010, the period covered by the interest rate swap agreements. Effective June 30, 2008, we were again able to assert that the hedged transactions were probable of occurring and accordingly redesignated the interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges of benchmark interest rate risk on 3-month LIBOR-based interest payments on the hedged debt as of June 30, 2008. As a result, a significant portion of the mark to market changes on these interest rate swaps is not expected to be charged or credited, as applicable, to interest expense from the period beginning July 1, 2008 and instead is charged to accumulated other comprehensive income. To the extent that we do not enter into a hedging arrangement that effectively fixes the interest rate on a portion of our senior debt after these contracts expire, the interest rate on all of the debt covered by our senior credit facility will fluctuate based on LIBOR and other variable interest rates. To the extent these interest rates increase, our interest expense will increase, in which event, we may have difficulty making interest payments and funding our other costs and our ability to comply with the financial covenants in our credit facility may be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock has been volatile since our initial public offering and may continue to be volatile. Shares of our common stock may continue to experience substantial price volatility, including significant decreases, in response to a number of events, including: • the current situation with our credit facility; • our quarterly operating results; • sales of our common stock by principal stockholders; • issuances of our common stock by us; • future announcements concerning our business; • our dividend policy; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock and/or changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • actions of competitors; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in U.S. and foreign government regulation; • general market, economic and political conditions; and • natural disasters, terrorist attacks and acts of war. On December 31, 2008 the closing price of our common stock declined to $0.66 as compared with $5.20 as of December 31, 2007. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class action lawsuits filed against them. On June 7, 2006, a purported class action complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts on behalf of a putative class of investors who purchased shares pursuant or traceable to our initial public offering on or about May 16, 2005 through November 15, 2005 against us, our former Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer. See “Legal Proceedings” below. While we have entered a settlement agreement with respect to this litigation, other lawsuits, should they be filed against us in the future, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we cannot meet the NYSE continued listing criteria, the NYSE may delist our common stock which would have an adverse impact on the liquidity and market price of our common stock. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. On December 29, 2008, we received notification from the NYSE that we were not in compliance with two NYSE standards for continued listing of our common stock on the exchange. Specifically, we are considered below these criteria by the NYSE because (i) the average closing price of our common stock was less than $1.00 per share over a consecutive 30 trading day period, and (ii) our average total market capitalization has been less than $75 million over the same period and our most recently reported stockholders’ equity was less than $75 million. Under NYSE rules, we had 45 days from the date of the notice to submit a plan to the NYSE to demonstrate our ability to achieve compliance with the market capitalization listing standards within 18 months of receiving the notice. We submitted our plan to the NYSE on February 12, 2009, and it is currently undergoing review by the NYSE. Within 45 days of receiving the plan, the NYSE will inform us in writing as to whether it has accepted or rejected our plan. If our plan is rejected, our common stock will be subject to suspension and delisting by the NYSE. Additionally, since we are below the share price criterion, we must bring our share price and average share price above $1.00 within the longer of six months of receipt of the notification or our next 24 Table of Contents annual meeting of stockholders if stockholder action to assist compliance is proposed. During this cure period, our shares will continue to be listed and traded on the NYSE, subject to our compliance with other NYSE continued listing standards but will be assigned a “.BC” suffix by the NYSE to signify that we are not currently in compliance with the NYSE continued listing standards. If we fail to become compliant with the continued listing standards within the applicable timeframe, our common stock may be delisted by the NYSE. On February 26, 2009, the NYSE submitted to the Securities & Exchange Commission an immediately effective rule filing which suspends the NYSE’s $1.00 minimum price requirement on a temporary basis, initially through June 30, 2009. Further, the filing also extends until the same date the NYSE’s current easing of the average global market capitalization standard from $25 million to $15 million. While the filing is immediately effective, it is subject to a 30-day operative delay. The NYSE has asked the SEC to waive this operative delay and expects the SEC to do so promptly. The following describes how the suspension of the $1.00 minimum price requirement will operate in practice: • Companies currently below the $1.00 minimum price criteria that do not regain compliance during the suspension period will recommence their compliance period upon reinstitution of the stock price continued listing standard and receive the remaining balance of their compliance period. • Companies currently below the $1.00 minimum price criteria will be deemed to have regained compliance during the rule suspension period if: 1. at the end of their respective six-month cure period, as established prior to this rule’s suspension, they have a $1.00 closing share price on both the last trading day of the period and based on the preceding 30 trading days, and/or 2. at the end of any calendar month during the suspension they have a $1.00 closing share price on both the last trading day of such month and based on the 30 trading days preceding the end of such month. The current financial crisis could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The current financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the going concern risks facing various financial institutions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, decreased liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business which may be difficult to predict or anticipate, including effects on our customers, suppliers, contractors and financing sources which could impact our collections, treasury functions, ability to obtain financing and our business and operations generally. As of December 31, 2008, entities associated with Apax Europe IV GP Co. Ltd. (“Apax”) own approximately 54% of our common stock and will therefore have significant influence over our business and significant transactions. As of December 31, 2008 there were 46,257,772 shares of our common stock outstanding, of which 25,043,764 in the aggregate, or approximately 54% were held by Apax WW Nominees Ltd. and Apax-Xerium APIA LP. As a result Apax and its associated entities have a strong ability to influence our business, policies and affairs. To the extent these entities continue to own in excess of 50% of our common stock, they will have the ability to control the outcome of all elections of directors and any stockholder vote regarding a merger or other extraordinary transaction. Although Apax has no contractual rights to nominate any directors, two representatives of Apax serve on our board of directors. Because Apax owns more than 50% of our common stock, we can consider ourselves to be a “Controlled Company” under Section 303A of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual (the “NYSE Rules”), which means, among other things, that the NYSE Rules do not require us to maintain a majority of independent directors. We cannot be certain that the interests of Apax will be consistent with the interests of other holders of common stock. In addition, this concentration of ownership could have the 25 Table of Contents effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, merger or tender offer, which would deprive shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares of common stock and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Moreover, Apax either alone or with other existing equity investors could effectively receive a premium for transferring ownership to third parties that would not inure to the benefit of investors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 