Risk Factors—Many of our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors and, as a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments.” Managerial Assistance As a business development company, we offer, and must provide upon request, managerial assistance to certain of our portfolio companies. This assistance could involve, among other things, monitoring the operations of our portfolio companies, participating in board and management meetings, consulting with and advising officers of portfolio companies and providing other organizational and financial guidance. We may receive fees for these services. Such fees would not qualify as “good income” for purposes of the 90% income test that we must meet each year to qualify as a registered investment company or “RIC.” Prospect Administration, LLC (“Prospect Administration”) provides such managerial assistance on our behalf to portfolio companies when we are required to provide this assistance. Business –Factors That May Affect Future Results Factors that may affect future results include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, interest rates, commodity prices, supply of and demand for particular services or products, the market position of individual companies, the level of competition in regional and global markets, and other factors. Please see our discussion under “Risks Factors” below. Management Fee Investment Advisory Agreement Our investment activities are managed by our Investment Advisor, which is an investment adviser that is registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, or the “Advisers Act.” We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the senior management of our Investment Adviser. We also depend, to a significant extent, on our Investment Adviser’s access to the investment professionals of Prospect Management and the information and deal flow generated by the Prospect Management Investment professionals in the course of their investment and portfolio management activities. The senior management team evaluates, negotiates, structures, closes, monitors and services our investments. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of the senior management team, particularly John F. Barry III and M. Grier Eliasek. The departure of any of the senior managers of our Investment Adviser could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. In addition, we can offer no assurance that Prospect Management will remain our Investment Adviser or that we will continue to have access to its investment professionals or its information and deal flow. 10 Prospect Energy has entered into an investment advisory and management agreement with Prospect Management (the “Investment Advisory Agreement”) under which the Investment Adviser, subject to the overall supervision of Prospect Energy’s board of directors, manages the day-to-day operations of, and provides investment advisory services to, Prospect Energy. Under the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement, our Investment Advisor: (i) determines the composition of our portfolio, the nature and timing of the changes to our portfolio and the manner of implementing such changes, (ii) identifies, evaluates and negotiates the structure of the investments we make (including performing due diligence on our prospective portfolio companies); and (iii) closes and monitors investments we make. Prospect Management’s services under the Investment Advisory Agreement are not exclusive, and it is free to furnish similar services to other entities so long as its services to us are not impaired. For providing these services the Investment Adviser receives a fee from Prospect Energy, consisting of two components--a base management fee and an incentive fee. The base management fee is calculated at an annual rate of 2.00% on Prospect Energy’s gross assets (including amounts borrowed and drawn down). For services rendered under the Investment Advisory Agreement during the period commencing from the closing of Prospect Energy’s initial public offering through and including the first six months of operations, the base management fee was payable monthly in arrears. For services currently rendered under the Investment Advisory Agreement, the base management fee is payable quarterly in arrears. The base management fee is calculated based on the average value of Prospect Energy’s gross assets at the end of the two most recently completed calendar quarters (the closing of Prospect Energy’s initial public offering was treated as a quarter end for these purposes) and appropriately adjusted for any share issuances or repurchases during the current calendar quarter. Base management fees for any partial month or quarter are appropriately pro rated. The total base management fees earned by and paid to Prospect Management during the twelve months ended June 30, 2005 were $1.8 million. The incentive fee has two parts. The first part, the income incentive fee, is calculated and payable quarterly in arrears based on Prospect Energy’s pre-incentive fee net investment income for the immediately preceding calendar quarter. For this purpose, pre-incentive fee net investment income means interest income, dividend income and any other income (including any other fees (other than fees for providing managerial assistance), such as commitment, origination, structuring, diligence and consulting fees and other fees that Prospect Energy receives from portfolio companies) accrued during the calendar quarter, minus Prospect Energy’s operating expenses for the quarter (including the base management fee, expenses payable under the Administration Agreement described below, and any interest expense and dividends paid on any issued and outstanding preferred stock, but excluding the incentive fee). Pre-incentive fee net investment income includes, in the case of investments with a deferred interest feature (such as original issue discount, debt instruments with payment in kind interest and zero coupon securities), accrued income that we have not yet received in cash. Pre-incentive fee net investment income does not include any realized capital gains, realized capital losses or 11 unrealized capital appreciation or depreciation. Pre-incentive fee net investment income, expressed as a rate of return on the value of Prospect Energy’s net assets at the end of the immediately preceding calendar quarter, is compared to a “hurdle rate” of 1.75% per quarter (7% annualized). However, our Investment Adviser has voluntarily agreed that for each fiscal quarter after January 1, 2005, the quarterly hurdle rate will be equal to the greater of (a) 1.75% and (b) a percentage equal to the sum of the daily average of the “quoted treasury rate” for each month in the immediately preceding two quarters plus 0.50%. “Quoted treasury rate” means the yield to maturity (calculated on a semi-annual bond equivalent basis) at the time of computation for Five Year U.S. Treasury notes with a constant maturity (as compiled and published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H). These calculations will be appropriately pro rated for any period of less than three months and adjusted for any share issuances or repurchases during the current quarter. The voluntary agreement by the Investment Adviser that the hurdle rate be fluctuating for each fiscal quarter after January 1, 2005 (as discussed above) may be terminated by the Investment Adviser at any time upon 90 days’ prior notice. The net investment income used to calculate this part of the incentive fee is also included in the amount of the gross assets used to calculate the 2% base management fee. Prospect Energy pays the Investment Adviser an income incentive fee with respect to Prospect Energy’s pre-incentive fee net investment income in each calendar quarter as follows: • no incentive fee in any calendar quarter in which Prospect Energy’s pre-incentive fee net investment income does not exceed the hurdle rate; • 100% of Prospect Energy’s pre-incentive fee net investment income with respect to that portion of such pre-incentive fee net investment income, if any, that exceeds the hurdle rate but is less than 125% of the quarterly hurdle rate in any calendar quarter (8.75% annualized assuming a 7% annualized hurdle rate); and • 20% of the amount of Prospect Energy’s pre-incentive fee net investment income, if any, that exceeds 125% of the quarterly hurdle rate in any calendar quarter (8.75% annualized assuming a 7% annualized hurdle rate). These calculations are appropriately pro rated for any period of less than three months and adjusted for any share issuances or repurchases during the current quarter. The second part of the incentive fee, the capital gains incentive fee, is determined and payable in arrears as of the end of each calendar year (or upon termination of the Investment Advisory Agreement, as of the termination date), and equals 20.0% of Prospect Energy’s realized capital gains for the calendar year, if any, computed net of all realized capital losses and unrealized capital depreciation at the end of such year. In determining the capital gains incentive fee payable to the Investment Adviser, Prospect Energy calculates the aggregate realized capital gains, aggregate realized capital losses and aggregate unrealized capital depreciation, as applicable, with respect to each of the investments in its portfolio. For this purpose, aggregate realized capital gains, if any, equals the sum of the differences between the net sales price of each investment, when sold, and the original cost of such investment since inception. Aggregate realized capital losses equal the sum of the amounts by which the net sales price of each investment, when sold, is less than the original cost of such investment since inception. 12 Aggregate unrealized capital depreciation equals the sum of the difference, if negative, between the valuation of each investment as of the applicable date and the original cost of such investment. At the end of the applicable period, the amount of capital gains that serves as the basis for Prospect Energy’s calculation of the capital gains incentive fee equals the aggregate realized capital gains less aggregate realized capital losses and less aggregate unrealized capital depreciation with respect to its portfolio of investments. If this number is positive at the end of such period, then the capital gains incentive fee for such period is equal to 20% of such amount, less the aggregate amount of any capital gains incentive fees paid in respect of its portfolio in all prior periods. For the twelve months ended June 30, 2005, there were no incentive fees to the Investment Adviser. Duration and Termination The Investment Advisory Agreement was approved by our board of directors on June 23, 2004. Unless terminated earlier as described below, it will continue in effect for a period of two years from its effective date. It will remain in effect from year to year thereafter if approved annually by our board of directors or by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of our outstanding voting securities, including, in either case, approval by a majority of our directors who are not interested persons. The Investment Advisory Agreement will automatically terminate in the event of its assignment. The Investment Advisory Agreement may be terminated by either party without penalty upon not more than 60 days’ written notice to the other. See “Risk factors—Risks relating to our business and structure—We are dependent upon Prospect Management’s key management personnel for our future success.” Indemnification The Investment Advisory Agreement provides that, absent willful misfeasance, bad faith or gross negligence in the performance of its duties or by reason of the reckless disregard of its duties and obligations, Prospect Management and its officers, managers, agents, employees, controlling persons, members and any other person or entity affiliated with it are entitled to indemnification from Prospect Energy for any damages, liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees and amounts reasonably paid in settlement) arising from the rendering of Prospect Management’s services under the Investment Advisory Agreement or otherwise as an investment adviser of Prospect Energy. 13 Payment of Our Expenses All investment professionals of the Investment Adviser and their respective staffs, when and to the extent engaged in providing investment advisory and management services, and the compensation and routine overhead expenses of such personnel allocable to such services, are provided and paid for by Prospect Management. We bear all other costs and expenses of our operations and transactions, including those relating to: • organization and offering; • calculation of our net asset value (including the cost and expenses of any independent valuation firm); • expenses incurred by Prospect Management payable to third parties, including agents, consultants or other advisors (such as independent valuation firms, accountants and legal counsel), in monitoring our financial and legal affairs and in monitoring our investments and performing due diligence on our prospective portfolio companies; • interest payable on debt, if any, and dividends payable on preferred stock, if any, incurred to finance our investments; • offerings of our debt, our preferred shares, our common stock and other securities; • investment advisory fees; • fees payable to third parties, including agents, consultants or other advisors, relating to, or associated with, evaluating and making investments; • transfer agent and custodial fees; • registration fees; • listing fees; • taxes; • independent directors’ fees and expenses; • costs of preparing and filing reports or other documents with the SEC; • the costs of any reports, proxy statements or other notices to stockholders, including printing costs; 14 • our allocable portion of the fidelity bond, directors and officers/errors and omissions liability insurance, and any other insurance premiums; • direct costs and expenses of administration, including auditor and legal costs; and • all other expenses incurred by us, by our Investment Adviser or by Prospect Administration in connection with administering our business, such as our allocable portion of overhead under the Administration Agreement, including rent and our allocable portion of the costs of our chief compliance officer and chief financial officer and their respective staffs under the sub-administration agreement. Administration Agreement Prospect Energy has also entered into an Administration Agreement with Prospect Administration, LLC (“Prospect Administration”) under which Prospect Administration, among other things, provides (or arranges for the provision of) administrative services and facilities for Prospect Energy. For providing these services, Prospect Energy reimburses Prospect Administration for Prospect Energy’s allocable portion of overhead incurred by Prospect Administration in performing its obligations under the Administration Agreement, including rent and our allocable portion of the costs of our chief compliance officer and chief financial officer and their respective staffs. Under this agreement, Prospect Administration furnishes us with office facilities, equipment and clerical, bookkeeping and record keeping services at such facilities. Prospect Administration also performs, or oversees the performance of, our required administrative services, which include, among other things, being responsible for the financial records which we are required to maintain and preparing reports to our stockholders and reports filed with the SEC. In addition, Prospect Administration assists us in determining and publishing our net asset value, overseeing the preparation and filing of our tax returns and the printing and dissemination of reports to our stockholders, and generally oversees the payment of our expenses and the performance of administrative and professional services rendered to us by others. Under the Administration Agreement, Prospect Administration also provides on our behalf managerial assistance to those portfolio companies to which we are required to provide such assistance. The Administration Agreement may be terminated by either party without penalty upon 60 days’ written notice to the other party. Prospect Administration is a wholly owned subsidiary of our Investment Adviser. The Administration Agreement provides that, absent willful misfeasance, bad faith or negligence in the performance of its duties or by reason of the reckless disregard of its duties and obligations, Prospect Administration and its officers, managers, partners, agents, employees, controlling persons, members and any other person or entity affiliated with it are entitled to indemnification from Prospect Energy for any damages, liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees and amounts reasonably paid in settlement) arising from the rendering of Prospect Administration’s services under the Administration Agreement or otherwise as administrator for Prospect Energy. Prospect Administration, pursuant to the approval of our Board of Directors, has engaged EOS Fund Services LLC (“EOS”) to serve as the sub-administrator of Prospect Energy to perform certain services required of Prospect Administration. This engagement began in May 2005 and runs on a month to month basis at the rate of $25,000 annually, payable monthly. Under the sub-administration agreement, EOS provides Prospect with office facilities, equipment, clerical, bookkeeping and record keeping services at such facilities. EOS also conducts relations with custodians, depositories, transfer agents, dividend disbursing agents, other stockholder servicing agents, accountants, attorneys, underwriters, brokers and dealers, corporate fiduciaries, insurers, banks and such other persons in any such other capacity deemed to be necessary or desirable. EOS provides reports to the Administrator and the Directors of its performance of obligations and furnishes advice and recommendations with respect to such other aspects of the business and affairs of Prospect as it shall determine to be desirable. EOS does not provide any advice or recommendation relating to the securities and other assets that Prospect should purchase, retain or sell or any other investment advisory services to Prospect. EOS is responsible for the financial and other records that either Prospect (or the Administrator on behalf of Prospect) is required to maintain and prepares reports to stockholders, and reports and other materials filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and provides on Prospect’s behalf significant managerial assistance to those portfolio companies to which Prospect is required to provide such assistance under the Investment Company Act or other applicable law. In addition, EOS assists Prospect in determining and publishing Prospect’s net asset value, overseeing the preparation and filing of Prospect’s tax returns, and the printing and dissemination of reports to stockholders of Prospect, and generally overseeing the payment of Prospect’s expenses and the performance of administrative and professional services rendered to Prospect by others. Under the sub-administration agreement, EOS and its officers, partners, agents, employees, controlling persons, members, and any other person or entity affiliated with EOS, is not liable to the Administrator or Prospect for any action taken or omitted to be taken by EOS in connection with the performance of any of its duties or obligations or otherwise as sub-administrator for the Administrator on behalf of Prospect. The agreement also provides that, absent willful misfeasance, bad faith or negligence in the performance of EOS’s duties or by reason of the reckless disregard of EOS’s duties and obligations, EOS and its officers, partners, agents, employees, controlling persons, members, and any other person or entity affiliated with EOS is entitled to indemnification from the Administrator and Prospect. All damages, liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees and amounts reasonably paid in settlement) incurred in or by reason of any pending, threatened or completed action, suit, investigation or other proceeding (including an action or suit by or in the right of the Administrator or Prospect or the security holders of Prospect) arising out of or otherwise based upon the performance of any of EOS’s duties or obligations under the agreement or otherwise as sub-administrator for the Administrator on behalf of Prospect. 15 For the twelve months ended June 30, 2005, the Company paid Prospect Administration $265,897 for services it provided to Prospect Energy at cost. The Company also reimbursed Prospect Administration for certain expenses which it initially funded on behalf of the Company. Investment Adviser Prospect Management is a Delaware limited liability corporation that is registered as an investment adviser under the Advisers Act. The principal executive offices of Prospect Management are 10 East 40th Street, 44th Floor, New York, NY 10019. Investment Personnel The investment personnel of our Investment Adviser currently consist of its executive officers, John F. Barry and M. Grier Eliasek, and six additional investment professionals, two of whom are contractors who work solely for Prospect Management. The following information pertains to the investment personnel of the Adviser who are not executive officers or employees of Prospect Energy. David L. Belzer. Mr. Belzer has over seven years of experience in energy finance. Mr. Belzer serves Prospect Management as an investment consultant based in Boston and is a senior member of the investment committee focusing on origination and other investment activities. Mr. Belzer provides investment consulting services solely to Prospect Management. From February 2004 through November 2004, Mr. Belzer provided investment consulting services to Sheridan Road Capital. From January 2000 through February 2004, Mr. Belzer served as Vice President, first at Fieldstone Private Capital Group and then at Blaylock & Partners. While at Fieldstone and Blaylock, he managed a variety of financing transactions in the oil and gas, utility, and power sectors, including public equity offerings, private placements and high yield offerings. Prior to Fieldstone, Mr. Belzer was a member of the Structured Finance Group at General Electric Capital Corporation, where he focused on investments in the oil and gas sector. From 1996 to 1998, Mr. Belzer worked for Wheelabrator Technologies Inc., a developer of waste-to-energy plants. Mr. Belzer graduated from the University of Indiana with a B.A. in Economics and Environmental Studies. Subsequently, Mr. Belzer received his M.B.A. from the Olin School of Business at Washington University. Mr. Belzer also holds a NASD Series 7 license. Mr. Belzer has consulted for Prospect Management since November 2004. He is 36 years old. Richard A. Brand. Mr. Brand began his career as an investment banker at PaineWebber in 1980. At Prospect, Mr. Brand focuses on sourcing and screening potential Prospect Energy investments. As a banker and private equity professional, Mr. Brand has structured debt financings for a number of oil and gas companies. From September 2002 to June 2004, he was a Managing Director at CDC Securities. From 1998 to July 2002, Mr. Brand was a Managing Director at Robertson Stephens, where he served on the Bayview Fund, the partners’ investment fund; chaired the private placement oversight committee; and served on the broker dealer commitment committee. From 1996 to 1998, Mr. Brand was a Director in Global Private Capital 16 Markets at Deutsche Bank. From 1993 to 1996, he was a Vice President at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, where he helped establish the Private Funds Group. From 1986 to 1993, Mr. Brand was a Vice President at Merrill Lynch. From 1980 through 1985, Mr. Brand was an investment banker at PaineWebber. Mr. Brand received his M.B.A. in Finance from the University of Chicago and his B.A. in Economics and English from the University of Iowa (Phi Beta Kappa), where he was Vice President of the Council of Academic Colleges. Mr. Brand has been with Prospect Management since October 2004. He is 48 years old. Bart J. de Bie. Mr. de Bie has over seven years experience as an investment banker, primarily focused on energy industry clients. From August 2003 through August 2004, Mr. de Bie was a director at Cenatar Advisory Group, an advisory boutique that provided capital formation and advisory services and focused on the energy and utility sector clients. Prior to Cenatar, Mr. de Bie spent January through July 2003 as an independent consultant. From September 1997 through December 2002, Mr. de Bie was an investment banker with J.P.Morgan & Co., where he advised energy and non-energy clients on various acquisitions, divestitures and financing transactions. Mr. de Bie graduated from the University of Wisconsin with a B.A. in Economics. Subsequently Mr. de Bie received his J.D. from the George Washington University Law School. Mr. de Bie has been admitted to the New York Bar and holds NASD Series 24, 63 and 7 licenses. Mr. de Bie has been with Prospect Management since September 2004. He is 32 years old. James A. Flores. Mr. Flores has over 25 years of experience in energy and finance. Mr. Flores serves Prospect Management as an investment consultant based in Indiana. Mr. Flores provides investment consulting services solely for Prospect Management. From October 2003 to March 2004, Mr. Flores was Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Norwest Corporation, a leading mining and energy consulting firm in Salt Lake City, Utah where he was responsible for administrating financial reporting and treasury for the company’s worldwide operations as well as leading the firm’s financial consulting practices. Prior to Norwest Corporation, Mr. Flores was an independent financial advisor in the ethanol fuel and geothermal power industries. From 1994 to 2002, Mr. Flores was employed by MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company, an affiliate of Berkshire Hathaway, with large interests in various independent power projects, utilities, gas pipelines, and oil and gas. Before MidAmerican, Mr. Flores spent 15 years in corporate banking first with Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company as a credit analyst, and subsequently with Mellon Bank in its international and corporate banking departments. He holds a B.A. from Princeton University and an M.B.A. from the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. Mr. Flores is fluent in Spanish. Mr. Flores has been with Prospect Management since April 2004. He is 52 years old. John S. Hopley. Mr. Hopley has 18 years of experience in energy and finance. From January 2001 to August 2004, Mr. Hopley served as managing principal at Greenwich Energy Capital Management, an energy advisory and asset management firm, where he focused on origination, business development, asset dispositions, structuring and valuations. From June 2000 to January 2001, Mr. Hopley served as a senior vice president at WL Ross & Co, LLC, where he worked on investing opportunities in Korea. From 1995 to 2000, Mr. Hopley served as vice president at Enron Corporation, where he created and led the Restructuring Group with a portfolio valued at $550 million after service in each of the Corporate Development and 17 Underwriting Groups. While at Enron, Mr. Hopley participated in more than 30 transactions totaling more than $5 billion. From 1992 to 1995, Mr. Hopley served as senior associate at Bankers Trust Company, where he worked in the Loan Syndication and Portfolio Management departments. Mr. Hopley started his finance career at Deutsche Bank in 1989. From 1981 to 1984, Mr. Hopley served as a research associate for the United Nations Industrial Development Organization in Vienna, Austria. Mr. Hopley holds a B.A. from Columbia University and a Masters in International Affairs from Columbia University. Mr. Hopley has been with Prospect Management since August 2004. He is 44 years old. Eric K. Klaussmann. Mr. Klaussmann has over eight years of experience in energy finance, both in North America and internationally. Prior to Prospect, Mr. Klaussmann was with Bayerische Landesbank from March 2004 to August 2004. From December 2002 to February 2004, Mr. Klaussman was a principal at MMC Energy, LLC, a New York and London based energy merchant bank and asset management company, where he originated, evaluated and structured investments in energy assets. From May 1999 to April 2002, Mr. Klaussmann was a member of the Energy and Power Technology investment banking group at CIBC World Markets where he managed a variety of financing transactions in the energy and power technology sectors including private placements, public equity offerings, high yield offerings, and M&A transactions. From 1998 to 1999, Mr. Klaussmann was a member of the Energy Group at TD Securities, where he specialized in the origination, structuring and analysis of energy related project finance transactions. From 1996 to 1998, Mr. Klaussmann was a member of the Project Development team at Energy Transportation Group, where he was responsible analyzing and developing new project finance opportunities in Romania, China and Pakistan. Mr. Klaussmann holds a Masters in Economics from Boston University and Bachelor of Arts cum laude from Boston University. Mr. Klaussmann has been with Prospect Management since September 2004. He is 32 years old. License Agreement We entered into a license agreement with Prospect Management, pursuant to which Prospect Management agrees to grant us a nonexclusive, royalty free license to use the name “Prospect Energy.” Under this agreement, we have a right to use the Prospect Energy name for so long as Prospect Management or one of its affiliates remains our Investment Adviser. Other than with respect to this limited license, we have no legal right to the Prospect Energy name. This license agreement will remain in effect for so long as the Investment Advisory Agreement with our Investment Adviser is in effect. 18 Determination of Net Asset Value The net asset value per share of our outstanding shares of common stock is determined quarterly by dividing the value of total assets minus liabilities by the total number of shares outstanding. In calculating the value of our total assets, we value investments for which market quotations are readily available at such market quotations. Debt and equity securities whose market price is not readily available are valued at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors. With respect to private equity securities, each investment is valued using a number of valuation metrics, including comparisons of financial ratios of the portfolio companies that issued such private equity securities to peer companies that are public and the discounted cash flow method. The value is then discounted to reflect the illiquid nature of the investment, as well as our minority, non-control position. When an external event such as a purchase transaction, public offering or subsequent equity sale occurs, we will use the pricing indicated by the external event in reviewing and determining our private equity valuation. Because there is not a readily available market value for most of the investments in our portfolio, we value substantially all of our portfolio investments at fair value as determined in good faith by our board under a valuation policy and a consistently applied valuation process. Due to the inherent uncertainty of determining the fair value of investments that do not have a readily available market value, the fair value of our investments may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a ready market existed for such investments, and the differences could be material. With respect to investments for which market quotations are not readily available, our board of directors undertakes a multi-step valuation process each quarter, as described below: • Our quarterly valuation process begins with each portfolio company or investment being initially valued by the investment professionals of our Investment Adviser responsible for the portfolio investment; • Preliminary valuation conclusions are then documented and discussed with our senior management; • An independent valuation firm engaged by our board of directors reviews these preliminary valuations; • The audit committee of our board of directors reviews the preliminary valuation, and our Investment Adviser and, as circumstances require, our independent valuation firm respond and supplement the preliminary valuation to reflect any comments provided by the audit committee; and • The board of directors discusses valuations and determines the fair value of each investment in our portfolio in good faith based on the input of our Investment Adviser, independent valuation firm and audit committee. The types of factors that we may take into account in fair value pricing our investments include, as relevant, the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings and discounted cash flow, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded securities and other relevant factors. Determination of fair values involves subjective judgments and estimates which are susceptible to change. Accordingly, the notes to our financial statements will refer to the uncertainty with respect to the possible effect of such valuations, and any change in such valuations, on our financial statements. 19 Dividend Reinvestment Plan We have adopted a dividend reinvestment plan that provides for reinvestment of our distributions on behalf of our stockholders, unless a stockholder elects to receive cash as provided below. As a result, if our board of directors authorizes, and we declare, a cash dividend, then our stockholders who have not “opted out” of our dividend reinvestment plan will have their cash dividends automatically reinvested in additional shares of our common stock, rather than receiving the cash dividends. No action is required on the part of a registered stockholder to have their cash dividend reinvested in shares of our common stock. A registered stockholder may elect to receive an entire dividend in cash by notifying the plan administrator and our transfer agent and registrar, in writing so that such notice is received by the plan administrator no later than the record date for dividends to stockholders. The plan administrator will set up an account for shares acquired through the plan for each stockholder who has not elected to receive dividends in cash and hold such shares in non-certificated form. Upon request by a stockholder participating in the plan, the plan administrator will, instead of crediting shares to the participant’s account, issue a certificate registered in the participant’s name for the number of whole shares of our common stock and a check for any fractional share. Such request by a stockholder must be received three days prior to the dividend payable date in order for that dividend to be paid in cash. If such request is received less than three days prior to the dividend payable date, then the dividends will be reinvested and shares will be repurchased for the stockholder’s account; however, future dividends will be paid out in cash on all balances. Those stockholders whose shares are held by a broker or other financial intermediary may receive dividends in cash by notifying their broker or other financial intermediary of their election. We may use newly issued shares to implement the plan, whether our shares are trading at a premium or at a discount to net asset value. However, we reserve the right to purchase shares in the open market in connection with our implementation of the plan. The number of shares issued to a stockholder is generally determined by dividing the total dollar amount of the dividend payable to such stockholder by the market price per share of our common stock at the close of regular trading on The Nasdaq National Market on the valuation date for such dividend. If we use newly-issued shares to implement the plan, the valuation date will not be earlier than the last day stockholders have the right to elect to receive cash in lieu of shares. Market price per share on that date will be the closing price for such shares on The Nasdaq National Market or, if no sale is reported for such day, at the average of their reported bid and asked prices. The number of shares of our common stock to be outstanding after giving effect to payment of the dividend cannot be established until the value per share at which additional shares will be issued has been determined and elections of our stockholders have been tabulated. There are no brokerage charges or other charges to stockholders who participate in the plan. The plan administrator’s fees under the plan will be paid by us. If a participant elects by written notice to the plan administrator to have the plan administrator sell part or all of the shares held by the plan administrator in the participant’s account and remit the proceeds to the participant, the plan administrator is authorized to deduct a $15 transaction fee plus a $0.10 per share brokerage commissions from the proceeds. 20 Stockholders who receive dividends in the form of stock are subject to the same federal, state and local tax consequences as are stockholders who elect to receive their dividends in cash. A stockholder’s basis for determining gain or loss upon the sale of stock received in a dividend from us will be equal to the total dollar amount of the dividend payable to the stockholder. Any stock received in a dividend will have a new holding period for tax purposes commencing on the day following the day on which the shares are credited to the U.S. stockholder’s account. Participants may terminate their accounts under the plan by notifying the plan administrator via its website at www.amstock.com or by filling out the transaction request form located at the bottom of their statement and sending it to the plan administrator at American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, P.O. Box 922, Wall Street Station, New York, NY 10269-0560 or by calling the plan administrator’s Interactive Voice Response System at 1-888-888-0313. The plan may be terminated by us upon notice in writing mailed to each participant at least 30 days prior to any payable date for the payment of any dividend by us. All correspondence concerning the plan should be directed to the plan administrator by mail at American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, 59 Maiden Lane, New York, NY 10007 or by telephone at (718) 921-8200. Stockholders who purchased their shares through or hold their shares in the name of a broker or financial institution should consult with a representative of their broker or financial institution with respect to their participation in our dividend reinvestment plan. Such holders of our stock may not be identified as our registered stockholders with the plan administrator and may not automatically have their cash dividend reinvested in shares of our common stock. Regulation as a Business Development Company General We are a closed-end, non-diversified investment company that has filed an election to be treated as a business development company under the 1940 Act and are treated as a RIC for purposes of Subchapter M of the Code. The 1940 Act contains prohibitions and restrictions relating to transactions between business development companies and their affiliates (including any investment advisers or sub-advisers), principal underwriters and affiliates of those affiliates or underwriters and requires that a majority of the directors be persons other than “interested persons,” as that term is defined in the 1940 Act. In addition, the 1940 Act provides that we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or to withdraw our election as, a business development company unless approved by a majority of our outstanding voting securities. We generally focus on energy companies and will invest, under normal circumstances, at least 80% of our net assets (including the amount of any borrowings for investment purposes) in these companies. This 80% investment policy is not fundamental and, as a result, we may change this policy without first obtaining your approval. However, we may not change or modify this policy unless we provide you with at least 60 days’ prior notice. 21 We may invest up to 100% of our assets in securities acquired directly from issuers in privately negotiated transactions. With respect to such securities, we may, for the purpose of public resale, be deemed an “underwriter” as that term is defined in the Securities Act. Our intention is to not write (sell) or buy put or call options to manage risks associated with the publicly traded securities of our portfolio companies, except that we may enter into hedging transactions to manage the risks associated with interest rate and other market fluctuations. However, we may purchase or otherwise receive warrants to purchase the common stock of our portfolio companies in connection with acquisition financing or other investment. Similarly, in connection with an acquisition, we may acquire rights to require issuers of acquired securities or their affiliates to repurchase them under certain circumstances. We also do not intend to acquire securities issued by any investment company that exceeds the limits of the 1940 Act. Under these limits, we generally cannot acquire more than 3% of the voting stock of any business development company, invest more than 5% of the value of our total assets in the securities of any one investment company or invest more than 10% of the value of our total assets in the securities of more than one investment company. With regard to that portion of our portfolio invested in securities issued by investment companies, it should be noted that such investments might subject our stockholders to additional expenses. Qualifying Assets Under the 1940 Act, a business development company may not acquire any asset other than assets of the type listed in Section 55(a) of the 1940 Act, which are referred to as qualifying assets, unless, at the time the acquisition is made, qualifying assets represent at least 70% of the company’s total assets. In addition, a business development company must have been organized and have its principal place of business in the United States and must be operated for the purpose of making investments in the types of securities described in Section 55(a) of the 1940 Act. Managerial Assistance To Portfolio Companies In order to count portfolio securities as qualifying assets for the purpose of the 70% test, the business development company must either control the issuer of the securities or must offer to make available to the issuer of the securities (other than small and solvent companies described above) significant managerial assistance; except that, where the business development company purchases such securities in conjunction with one or more other persons acting together, one of the other persons in the group may make available such managerial assistance. Making available significant managerial assistance means, among other things, any arrangement whereby the business development company, through its directors, officers or employees, offers to provide, and, if accepted, does so provide, significant guidance and counsel concerning the management, operations or business objectives and policies of a portfolio company. 22 Temporary Investments Pending investment in other types of “qualifying assets,” as described above, our investments may consist of cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities or high quality debt securities maturing in one year or less from the time of investment, which we refer to, collectively, as temporary investments, so that 70% of our assets are qualifying assets. Typically, we will invest in United States treasury bills, federal agency securities or repurchase agreements, provided that such agreements are fully collateralized by cash or securities issued by the U.S. government or its agencies. A repurchase agreement involves the purchase by an investor, such as us, of a specified security and the simultaneous agreement by the seller to repurchase it at an agreed upon future date and at a price which is greater than the purchase price by an amount that reflects an agreed-upon interest rate. There is no perce ntage restriction on the proportion of our assets that may be invested in such repurchase agreements. However, if more than 25% of our total assets constitute repurchase agreements from a single counterparty, we would not meet the Diversification Tests under the Code in order to qualify as a RIC for federal income tax purposes. Thus, we do not intend to enter into repurchase agreements with a single counterparty in excess of this limit. Our Investment Adviser will monitor the creditworthiness of the counterparties with which we enter into repurchase agreement transactions. Senior Securities We are permitted, under specified conditions, to issue multiple classes of indebtedness and one class of stock senior to our common stock if our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is at least equal to 200% immediately after each such issuance. In addition, while any senior securities remain outstanding, we must make provisions to prohibit any distribution to our stockholders or the repurchase of such securities or shares unless we meet the applicable asset coverage ratios at the time of the distribution or repurchase. We may also borrow amounts up to 5% of the value of our total assets for temporary or emergency purposes without regard to asset coverage. For a discussion of the risks associated with leverage, see “Risk factors—Risks relating to our business and structure—Regulations governing our operation as a business development company affect our ability to, and the way in which we raise additional capital.” Code of Ethics We and Prospect Management have each adopted a code of ethics pursuant to Rule 17j-1 under the 1940 Act and Rule 204A-1 under the Advisers Act that establishes procedures for personal investments and restricts certain personal securities transactions. Personnel subject to each code may invest in securities for their personal investment accounts, including securities that may be purchased or held by us, so long as such investments are made in accordance with the code’s requirements. For information on how to obtain a copy of each code of ethics, see “Available Information.” 23 Investment Concentration Our investment objective is to maximize our portfolio’s total return, principally by investing in the debt and/or equity securities of energy-related companies. In this respect, we concentrate in the energy-related sector and invest, under normal circumstances, at least 80% of the value of our net assets (including the amount of any borrowings for investment purposes) in energy-related companies. This 80% policy is not a fundamental policy and therefore may be changed without the approval of our stockholders. However, we may not change or modify this policy unless we provide our stockholders with at least 60 days prior notice, pursuant to Rule 35d-1 of the 1940 Act. Compliance Policies and Procedures We and our Investment Adviser have adopted and implemented written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the federal securities laws, and are required to review these compliance policies and procedures annually for their adequacy and the effectiveness of their implementation, and to designate a Chief Compliance Officer to be responsible for administering the policies and procedures. William E. Vastardis serves as Chief Compliance Officer for both Prospect Energy and our Investment Adviser, Prospect Management. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K, with respect to any investment in our common stock. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We may not realize gains or income from our investments. We seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation. However, the securities we invest in may not appreciate and, in fact, may decline in value, and the issuers of debt securities we invest in may default on interest and/or principal payments. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our investments, and any gains that we do realize may not be sufficient to offset any losses we experience. Our portfolio may continue to be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies in the energy industry, which will subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations under any of the securities that we hold or if the energy industry experiences a downturn. We have invested, and will continue to invest, the net proceeds of the original offering as well as any future secondary offerings in a limited number of companies. A consequence of this lack of diversification is that the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if a small number of such investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Beyond our income tax diversification requirements, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments could be concentrated in relatively 24 few portfolio companies. We estimate that, once we have invested substantially all of the net proceeds of the original offering, we will have invested in approximately 8 to 12 portfolio companies, depending on the availability of appropriate investment opportunities consistent with our investment objective and market conditions. In addition, we concentrate on making investments in the energy industry and intend to invest, under normal circumstances, at least 80% of the value of our net assets (including the amount of any borrowings for investment purposes) in energy companies. As a result, a downturn in the energy industry could materially adversely affect us. The energy industry is subject to many risks. We concentrate our investments in the energy industry. Our definition of energy, as used in the context of the energy industry, is broad, and different sectors in the energy industry may be subject to variable risks and economic pressures. It will be difficult to anticipate the impact of changing economic and political conditions on our portfolio companies and, consequently, our financial results. The revenues, income (or losses) and valuations of energy companies can fluctuate suddenly and dramatically due to any one or more of the following factors: • Commodity Pricing Risk. While we do not invest in companies that accept completely unhedged commodity risk beyond levels that we regard as prudent, energy companies in general are directly affected by energy commodity prices, such as the market prices of crude oil, natural gas and wholesale electricity, especially for those who own the underlying energy commodity. In addition, the volatility of commodity prices can affect other energy companies due to the impact of prices on the volume of commodities transported, processed, stored or distributed and on the cost of fuel for power generation companies. The volatility of commodity prices can also affect energy companies’ ability to access the capital markets in light of market perception that their performance may be directly tied to commodity prices. Historically, energy commodity prices have been cyclical and exhibited significant volatility. Although we require adherence to strict risk controls, including appropriate commodity and other hedges, by each of our portfolio companies, some of our portfolio companies may not engage in hedging transactions to minimize their exposure to commodity price risk. For those companies that engage in such hedging transactions, they remain subject to market risks, including market liquidity and counterparty creditworthiness. • Regulatory Risk. The profitability of energy companies could be adversely affected by changes in the regulatory environment. The businesses of energy companies are heavily regulated by federal, state and local governments in diverse manners, such as the way in which energy assets are constructed, maintained and operated and the prices energy companies may charge for their products and services. Such regulation can change over time in scope and intensity. For example, a particular by-product of an energy process may be declared hazardous by a regulatory agency, which can unexpectedly increase production costs. Many state and federal environmental laws provide for civil penalties as well as regulatory remediation, thus adding to the potential liability an energy 25 company may face. The deregulation of energy markets and the unresolved regulatory issues related to some power markets create uncertainty in the regulatory environment as rules and regulations may be adopted on a transitional basis. We cannot assure you that the deregulation of energy markets will continue and if it continues, whether its impact on energy companies’ profitability will be positive. • Production Risk. The profitability of energy companies may be materially impacted by the volume of crude oil, natural gas or other energy commodities available for transporting, processing, storing, distributing or power generation. A significant decrease in the production of natural gas, crude oil, coal or other energy commodities, due to the decline of production from existing facilities, import supply disruption, depressed commodity prices, political events, OPEC actions or otherwise, could reduce revenue and operating income or increase operating costs of energy companies and, therefore, their ability to pay debt or dividends. In recent months, changes in OPEC production quotas, the situation in Iraq and the damage caused by Hurricane Katrina have resulted in record high oil prices in the United States. Continued volatility and uncertainty caused by such factors may have materially adverse effects on our operations and results. • Demand Risk. A sustained decline in demand for crude oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products and electricity could materially affect revenues and cash flows of energy companies. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand include a recession or other adverse economic conditions, an increase in the market price of the underlying commodity, higher taxes or other regulatory actions that increase costs, or a shift in consumer demand for such products. • Depletion and Exploration Risk. A portion of any one energy company’s assets may be dedicated to natural gas, crude oil and/or coal reserves and other commodities that naturally deplete over time. Depletion could have a material adverse impact on such company’s ability to maintain its revenue. Further, estimates of energy reserves may not be accurate and, even if accurate, reserves may not be fully utilized at reasonable costs. Exploration of energy resources, especially of oil and gas, is inherently risky and requires large amounts of capital. • Weather Risk. Unseasonable extreme weather patterns could result in significant volatility in demand for energy and power. This volatility may create fluctuations in earnings of energy-related companies. For instance, although Hurricane Katrina did not directly affect the production of our oil and gas portfolio companies as none of our portfolio companies have offshore production in the waters around Louisiana, rising commodity prices, in part, based on Hurricane Katrina and, in part, based on other macroeconomic supply and demand factors, have recently tended to benefit upstream-related portfolio companies. However, there is no guarantee that other weather and weather-related events, including Hurricane Rita, may not significantly impact the assets or operations of our portfolio companies. 26 • Operational Risk. Energy companies are subject to various operational risks, such as failed drilling or well development, unscheduled outages, underestimated cost projections, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses, failure to obtain the necessary permits to operate and failure of third-party contractors (for example, energy producers and shippers) to perform their contractual obligations. In addition, energy companies employ a variety of means of increasing cash flow, including increasing utilization of existing facilities, expanding operations through new construction, expanding operations through acquisitions, or securing additional long-term contracts. Thus, some energy companies may be subject to construction risk, acquisition risk or other risk factors arising from their specific business strategies. • Competition Risk. The progress in deregulating energy markets has created more competition in the energy industry. This competition is reflected in risks associated with marketing and selling energy in the evolving energy market and a competitor’s development of a lower-cost energy or power source, or of a lower cost means of operations, and other risks arising from competition. • Terrorism Risk. Since the September 11th attacks, the U.S. government has issued public warnings indicating that energy assets, specifically those related to pipeline infrastructure, production facilities and transmission and distribution facilities, might be specific targets of terrorist activity. The continued threat of terrorism and related military activity will likely increase volatility for prices of natural gas and oil and could affect the market for products and services of energy companies. In addition, any future terrorist attack or armed conflict in the United States or elsewhere may undermine economic conditions in the United States in general. • Financing Risk. Some of our portfolio companies may rely on the capital markets to raise money to pay their existing obligations. Their ability to access the capital markets on attractive terms or at all may be affected by any of the risks associated with energy companies described above, by general economic and market conditions or by other factors. This may in turn affect their ability to satisfy their obligations with us. In general, we attempt to mitigate many of these risks with a variety of methods and tools. These methods and tools may include covenants from our portfolio companies that require them to hedge a certain percentage of their production, generally in the range of 60-80%, in an attempt to reduce commodity risk. In addition, our debt orientation and portfolio diversification with respect to geography, wells, and fields, industry sectors and other variables, help to reduce portfolio volatility and manage risk. Our portfolio spans oil production, gas production, coal production, pipelines, processing, and oilfield services, and we expect over time to continue to diversify the portfolio into areas such as power generation, renewables, storage, refining, waste processing, utility services and other sectors. It is impossible, however, to eliminate all risks and we cannot guarantee that our efforts will ultimately be successful in reducing risks to our portfolio. 27 Many of our portfolio investments will be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors and, as a result, there will be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. A large percentage of our portfolio investments consists of securities of privately held or thinly traded public companies. The fair value of these securities may not be readily determinable. We value these securities quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors based on input from our Investment Adviser, a third party independent valuation firm and our audit committee. We may also be required to value any publicly traded securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors to the extent necessary to reflect significant events affecting the value of those securities. Our board of directors will utilize the services of an independent valuation firm to aid it in determining the fair value of any securities. The types of factors that may be considered in fair value pricing of our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, valuations may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, and the determinations of fair value by our board of directors may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if the determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. Our investments in prospective portfolio companies may be risky and you could lose all or part of your investment. We invest in companies in the energy industry, most of which have relatively short or no operating histories. These companies are and will be subject to all of the business risk and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise, including the risk that these companies may not reach their investment objective and the value of our investment in them may decline substantially or fall to zero. In addition, investment in the middle market energy companies that we are targeting involves a number of other significant risks, including: • these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of their equity securities or of any collateral with respect to debt securities and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing on any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; • they may have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; 28 • because many of these companies are privately held companies, public information is generally not available about these companies. As a result, we will depend on the ability of our Investment Adviser to obtain adequate information to evaluate these companies in making investment decisions. If our Investment Adviser is unable to uncover all material information about these companies, it may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments; • they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; • they may have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in changing businesses with products subject to a risk of obsolescence and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In addition, our executive officers, directors and our Investment Adviser could, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from proposed investments or from our investments in the portfolio companies. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. Our portfolio companies will generally be affected by the conditions and overall strength of the national, regional and local economies, including interest rate fluctuations, changes in the capital markets and changes in the prices of their primary commodities and products. These factors also impact the amount of residential, industrial and commercial growth in the energy industry. Additionally, these factors could adversely impact the customer base and customer collections of our portfolio companies. As a result, many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans or meet other obligations during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase, and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease, during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we 29 may have structured our interest as senior debt or preferred equity, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt or equity holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to those of other creditors. Our portfolio companies may incur debt or issue equity securities that rank equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We invest primarily in mezzanine debt and dividend-paying equity securities issued by our portfolio companies. Our portfolio companies usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt, or issue other equity securities, that rank equally with, or senior to, the securities in which we invest. By their terms, such instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of dividends, interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of securities ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying the senior security holders, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of securities ranking equally with securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other security holders in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. In addition, we may not be in a position to control any portfolio company in which we invest. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt or preferred equity investors. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company affect our ability to raise, and the way in which we raise, additional capital. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a business development company, to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments or sell additional shares of common stock and, depending on the nature of our leverage, to repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. In addition, any future issuance of additional shares of our common stock could dilute the percentage ownership of our current stockholders in us. As a business development company regulated under provisions of the 1940 Act, we are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of our common stock (1) if our board of directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of us and our stockholders, and (2) our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any sales load). In addition, we may in the future seek to securitize our loans to generate cash for funding new investments. To securitize loans, we may create a wholly owned subsidiary and contribute a pool of loans to such subsidiary. This could include the sale of interests in the subsidiary on a non-recourse basis to purchasers who we would expect to be willing to accept a lower interest rate to invest in investment grade loan pools. We would retain a portion of the equity in the securitized pool of loans. An inability to successfully securitize our loan portfolio could limit our ability to grow our business, fully execute our business strategy, and decrease our earnings, if any. Moreover, the successful securitization of our loan portfolio might expose us to losses because the residual loans in which we do not sell interests will tend to be those that are riskier and more likely to generate losses. We may not be able to fully realize the value of the collateral securing our debt investments. Although a substantial amount of our debt investments are protected by holding security interests in the assets of the portfolio companies, we may not be able to fully realize the value of the collateral securing our investments due to one or more of the following factors: • since our debt investments are primarily made in the form of mezzanine loans, our liens on the collateral, if any, are subordinated to those of the senior secured debt of the portfolio companies, if any. As a result, we may not be able to control remedies with respect to the collateral; • the collateral may not be valuable enough to satisfy all of the obligations under our secured loan, particularly after giving effect to the repayment of secured debt of the portfolio company that ranks senior to our loan; • bankruptcy laws may limit our ability to realize value from the collateral and may delay the realization process; • our rights in the collateral may be adversely affected by the failure to perfect security interests in the collateral; 30 • how effectively the collateral would be liquidated and the value received could be impaired or impeded by the need to obtain regulatory and contractual consents; and • by its nature, some or all of the collateral may be illiquid and may have no readily ascertainable market value. The liquidity and value of the collateral could be impaired as a result of changing economic conditions, competition, and other factors, including the availability of suitable buyers. We are dependent upon Prospect Management’s key management personnel for our future success. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the senior management of Prospect Management. We also depend, to a significant extent, on our Investment Adviser’s access to the investment professionals and the information and deal flow generated by these investment professionals in the course of their investment and portfolio management activities. For a description of the senior management team, see “Investment Adviser.” The senior management team evaluates, negotiates, structures, closes, monitors and services our investments. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our Investment Advisor senior management team, particularly John F. Barry III and M. Grier Eliasek. The departure of any of the senior managers of Prospect Management could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. In addition, we can offer no assurance that Prospect Management will remain our investment adviser or that we will continue to have access to its investment professionals or its information and deal flow. Potential conflicts of interest could impact our investment returns. Our executive officers and directors, and the executive officers of our investment adviser, Prospect Capital Management, may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or related lines of business as we do or of investment funds managed by our affiliates. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. It is possible that new investment opportunities that meet our investment objective may come to the attention of one these entities in connection with another investment advisory client or program, and, if so, such opportunity might not be offered, or otherwise made available, to us. However, as an investment adviser, Prospect Capital Management has a fiduciary obligation to act in the best interests of its clients, including us. To that end, if Prospect Capital Management or its affiliates manage any additional investment vehicles or client accounts in the future, Prospect Capital Management will endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner over time so as not to discriminate unfairly against any client. If Prospect Capital Management chooses to establish another investment fund in the future, when the investment professionals of Prospect Capital Management identify an investment, they will have to choose which investment fund should make the investment. In the course of our investing activities, under the investment advisory agreement we will pay base management and incentive fees to Prospect Capital Management, and will reimburse Prospect Capital Management for certain expenses it incurs. As a result, investors in our common stock will invest on a “gross” basis and receive distributions on a “net” basis after expenses, resulting in a lower rate of return than one might achieve through direct investments. As a result of this investment advisory agreement, there may be times when the management team of Prospect Capital Management has interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict. Prospect Capital Management will receive a quarterly income incentive fee based, in part, on our pre-incentive fee net investment income, if any, for the immediately preceding calendar quarter. This income incentive fee is subject to a quarterly hurdle rate before providing an income incentive fee return to the investment adviser. To the extent we or Prospect Capital Management are able to exert influence over our portfolio companies, the income incentive fee may provide Prospect Capital Management with an incentive to induce our portfolio companies to accelerate or defer interest or other obligations owed to us from one calendar quarter to another. If our investment adviser terminates its voluntary agreement to have the income incentive fee be subject to a fluctuating hurdle rate, the hurdle rate would be fixed. This fixed hurdle rate has been based in relation to current interest rates, which are currently relatively low on a historical basis. Thus, if interest rates rise, it would become easier for our investment income to exceed the hurdle rate and, as a result, more likely that our investment adviser will receive an income incentive fee than if interest rates on our investments remained constant or decreased. Subject to the receipt of any requisite shareholder approval under the 1940 Act, our board of directors may readjust the hurdle rate by amending the investment advisory agreement. The income incentive fee payable by Prospect Energy will be computed and paid on income that may include interest that has been accrued but not yet received in cash. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan that has a deferred interest feature, it is possible that interest accrued under such loan that has previously been included in the calculation of the income incentive fee will become uncollectible. If this happens, our investment adviser will not be required to reimburse us for any such income incentive fee payments. If we do not have sufficient liquid assets to pay this incentive fee or distributions to stockholders on such accrued income, we may be required to liquidate assets in order to do so. This fee structure could give rise to a conflict of interest for our investment adviser to the extent that it may encourage the investment adviser to favor debt financings that provide for deferred interest, rather than current cash payments of interest. We will enter into a royalty-free license agreement with Prospect Capital Management. Under this agreement, Prospect Capital Management will agree to grant us a non-exclusive license to use the name “Prospect Energy.” Under the license agreement, we will have the right to use the “Prospect Energy” name for so long as Prospect Capital Management or one of its affiliates remains our investment adviser. In addition, we will rent office space from Prospect Administration, an affiliate of Prospect Capital Management, and pay Prospect Administration our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by Prospect Administration in performing its obligations under the administration agreement, including rent and our allocable portion of the costs of our chief financial officer and chief compliance officer and their respective staffs. This may create conflicts of interest that our board of directors must monitor. Our incentive fee could induce Prospect Management to make speculative investments. The incentive fee payable by us to Prospect Management may create an incentive for our Investment Adviser to make investments on our behalf that are more speculative or involve more risk than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The way in which this incentive fee payable is determined (calculated as a percentage of the return on invested capital) may encourage the Investment Adviser to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. The use of leverage would increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor holders of our common stock. Similarly, because the Investment Adviser will receive an incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments, the Investment Adviser may invest more than would otherwise be appropriate in companies whose securities are likely to yield capital gains, as compared to income producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns. The incentive fee payable by us to Prospect Management also could create an incentive for our Investment Adviser to invest on our behalf in instruments, such as zero coupon bonds, that have a deferred interest feature. Under these investments, we would accrue interest income over the life of the investment but would not receive payments in cash on the investment until the end of the term. Our net investment income used to calculate the income incentive fee, however, includes accrued interest. For example, accrued interest, if any, on our investments in zero coupon bonds will be included in the calculation of our incentive fee, even though we will not receive any cash interest payments in respect of payment on the bond until its maturity date. Thus, a portion of this incentive fee would be based on income that we have not yet received in cash. 31 We are a relatively new company. We were incorporated in April 2004 and recently completed our first year of investment operations. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with many new business enterprises, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective and that the value of an investment in us could decline substantially or fall to zero. We anticipate that it may take us up to 15 months from the date of our IPO to invest substantially all of the net proceeds of the initial public offering. During this period, we will invest in temporary investments, such as short term securities, cash and cash equivalents. We expect such investments may earn yields substantially lower than the interest income that we anticipate receiving in respect of investments in subordinated debt and dividend-paying equity investments. As a result, we may pay dividends during this period that may be substantially lower than the dividends that we expect to pay when our portfolio is fully invested. If, at any point, we do not realize yields in excess of our expenses, we may incur operating losses. The market price of our shares may decline for this or other reasons. If we fail to maintain our qualification as a regulated investment company, we will have to pay corporate-level taxes on our income and our income available for distribution would be reduced. To maintain our qualification as a RIC, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the “Code,” and obtain RIC tax treatment, we must continue to meet certain income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to our stockholders on an annual basis. Because we may use debt financing in the future, we may be subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify for RIC tax treatment. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax. To qualify as a RIC, we must also continue to meet certain asset diversification requirements as of each day and at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments are in private companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason and remain or become subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution, and the actual amount of our distributions. Such a failure is likely to have a material adverse effect on us and our shares. 32 Our investments in foreign securities may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. Our investment strategy contemplates potential investments in securities of foreign companies. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. Although currently all of our investments are, and we expect that most of our investments will be U.S. dollar-denominated, our investments that are denominated in a foreign currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we can offer no assurance that such strategies will be effective. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transaction may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. The success of our hedging transactions will depend on our ability to correctly predict movements, currencies and interest rates. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. The degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies. 33 There is a risk that you may not receive dividends or that our dividends may not grow over time. We have made and intend to continue to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow or require any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a business development company, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. See “Dividends.” Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law and of our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. The Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or making more difficult a change in control and preventing the removal of incumbent directors. We are covered by the Maryland Business Combination Act (the “Business Combination Act”) to the extent such statute is not superseded by applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. However, our board of directors has adopted a resolution exempting any business combination between us and any other person from the Business Combination Act, subject to prior approval of such business combination by our board, including a majority of our directors who are not interested persons as defined in the 1940 Act. In addition, the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act (the “Control Share Act”) provides that control shares of a Maryland corporation acquired in a control share acquisition have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Control Share Act any and all acquisitions by any person of our shares of stock. If the applicable board resolution is repealed or our board does not otherwise approve a business combination, the Business Combination Act and the Control Share Act (if we amend our bylaws to be subject to that Act) may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. Additionally, under our charter, our board of directors is divided into three classes serving staggered terms; our board of directors may, without stockholder action, authorize the issuance of shares of stock in one or more classes or series, including preferred stock; and our board of directors may, without stockholder action, amend our charter to increase the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue. The existence of these provisions, among others, may have a negative impact on the price of our common stock and may discourage third party bids for ownership of our company. These provisions may prevent any premiums being offered to you for shares of our common stock. Investing in our shares may involve a high degree of risk. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies may be speculative and aggressive, and therefore, an investment in our shares may not be suitable for someone with low risk tolerance. 34 The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include: • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of business development companies or other companies in the energy industry, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or business development companies; • loss of RIC status; • changes in earnings or variations in operating results; • changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; • departure of one or more of Prospect Management’s key personnel; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; • changes in prevailing interest rates; • litigation matters; • general economic trends and other external factors; and • loss of a major funding source. We are Exposed to Interest Rate Risk. We are subject to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates. Some of the loans in our portfolio have floating rates. To date, a significant, but declining, percentage of our assets have been and are invested in short-term U.S. Treasury bills and comparable instruments. We may hedge against interest rate fluctuations by using standard hedging instruments such as futures, options and forward contracts subject to the requirements of the 1940 Act. While hedging activities may insulate us against adverse changes in interest rates, they may also limit our ability to participate in the benefits of higher interest rates with respect to our portfolio of investments. During the twelve months ended June 30, 2005, we did not engage directly in hedging activities. 