ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and all of the information contained in this report before deciding whether to purchase our securities. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks if any of them actually occur. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and an investor may lose all or part of his investment. Some of these factors have affected our financial condition and operating results in the past or are currently affecting our company. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face as described below and elsewhere in this report. With respect to this discussion, the terms, “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to China Architectural Engineering, Inc., and all of our subsidiaries. RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATIONS If we are unable to accurately estimate and control our contract costs and timelines, then we may incur losses on our contracts, which may result in decreases in our operating margins and in a significant reduction or elimination of our profits. If we do not control our contract costs, we may be unable to maintain positive operating margins or experience operating losses. Approximately 95% of our sales are from fixed-price contracts. The remaining 5% of our sales are from cost-plus-fee contracts. Under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price. Consequently, we realize a profit on fixed-price contracts only if we control our costs and prevent cost over-runs on the contracts. Approximately 70% of contracts are modified after they begin, usually to accommodate requests from clients to increase project size and scope. In cases where fixed-price contracts are modified, the fixed price is renegotiated and adjusted upwards accordingly. Under cost-plus-fee contracts, which may be subject to contract ceiling amounts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and fees, which may be fixed or performance-based. If our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or any applicable regulations, we may not be reimbursed for all our costs. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to estimate and control costs and/or project timelines, we may incur losses on our contracts, which may result in decreases in our operating margins and in a significant reduction or elimination of our profits. Our use of the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting could result in reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenues and profits. A substantial portion of our revenues and profits are measured and recognized using the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting, which is discussed further in Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our “Financial Statements.” Our use of this method results in recognition of revenues and profits ratably over the life of a contract, based generally on the proportion of costs incurred to date to total costs expected to be incurred for the entire project. The effect of revisions to revenues and estimated costs is recorded when the amounts are known or can be reasonably estimated. There are uncertainties inherent in the estimating process, and estimate revisions may occur. Such revisions could occur in any period and their effects could be material. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2008, we conducted an interim review of actual incurred and further projected costs versus budgeted costs related to certain ongoing projects, and as a result of the review, we revised our estimates that decreased the gross profit related to these projects primarily as a result of higher than expected startup, transportation, material and labor costs. The effect of revisions to revenues and estimated costs was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008. As is customary in the construction industry, we intend to conduct interim reviews on a rolling basis, and it may be determined during these reviews that actual costs on a project or projects vary materially from estimates, including reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenues and profits. Our results of operations for current and past periods may be negatively affected by revisions to estimates and reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenues and profits, which could harm the value of our securities. If we fail to timely complete, miss a required performance standard or otherwise fail to adequately perform on a project, then we may incur a loss on that project, which may affect our overall profitability. We may commit to a client that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. We may also commit that a project, when completed, will achieve specified performance standards. If the project is not completed by the scheduled date or subsequently fails to meet required performance standards, we may either incur significant additional costs or be held responsible for the costs incurred by the client to rectify damages due to late completion or failure to achieve the required performance standards. The uncertainty of the timing of a project can present difficulties in planning the amount of personnel needed for the project. If the project is delayed or canceled, we may bear the cost of an underutilized workforce that was dedicated to fulfilling the project. In addition, performance of projects can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including unavoidable delays from weather conditions, unavailability of vendor materials, changes in the project scope of services requested by clients or labor disruptions. In some cases, should we fail to meet required performance standards, we may also be subject to agreed-upon financial damages, which are determined by the contract. To the extent that these events occur, the total costs of the project could exceed our estimates and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, incur a loss on that project, which may affect our overall profitability. 10 A substantial portion of our assets has been comprised of construction contract receivables representing amounts owed by a small number of customers. If any of these customers fails to timely pay us amounts owed, we could suffer a significant decline in cash flow and liquidity which, in turn, could cause us to be unable pay our liabilities and purchase an adequate amount of inventory to sustain or expand our sales volume. Our construction contract receivables represented approximately 68.8% and 83.0% of our total current assets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, our largest customer represented over 25.7% of the total amount of our construction contract receivables. As a result of the substantial amount and concentration of our construction contract receivables, if any of our major customers fails to timely pay us amounts owed, we could suffer a significant decline in cash flow and liquidity which could adversely affect our ability to borrow funds to pay our liabilities and to purchase inventory to sustain or expand our current sales volume. The growth of aging receivables and a deterioration in the collectability of these accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. We provide for bad debts principally based upon the aging of accounts receivable, in addition to collectability of specific customer accounts, our history of bad debts, and the general condition of the industry. We are currently involved in six lawsuits in which we are suing other parties for overdue payments. The total amount involved is approximately $3.2 million. We have decided to record a general provision for doubtful accounts amounting to $5 million in 2008, which management believes is commensurate to cover the associated credit risk in the portfolio of our construction contract related receivables. As of December 31, 2008, our provision for doubtful accounts was $5.2 million, which was 5.6% of our construction contract related receivables of $93.0 million. We believed it was appropriate to increase the reserve for doubtful accounts during the fourth quarter of 2008 primarily due to an increase in the aging of our accounts receivable, the growth of the outstanding balance of receivables as of December 31, 2008, and the general decline in the domestic and global economy. Due to the difficulty in assessing future trends, we could be required to further increase our provisions for doubtful accounts. As our accounts receivable age and become uncollectible our cash flow and results of operations are negatively impacted. We depend on a small number of customers for the vast majority of our sales. A reduction in business from any of these customers could cause a significant decline in our sales and profitability. The vast majority of our sales are generated from a small number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we had three customers that each accounted for at least 4% of the revenues that we generated, with one customer accounting for 37.7% of our revenue. These three customers accounted for a total of approximately 46.8% of our revenue for that period. We expect that we will continue to depend upon a small number of customers for a significant majority of our sales for the foreseeable future. A reduction in business from any of these customers could cause a significant decline in our sales and profitability. Because we depend on governmental agencies for a significant portion of our revenue, our inability to win or renew government contracts could harm our operations and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Revenues from Chinese government contracts represented approximately 24.4% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our inability to win or renew Chinese government contracts could harm our operations and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Chinese government contracts are typically awarded through a regulated procurement process. Some Chinese government contracts are awarded to multiple competitors, causing increases in overall competition and pricing pressure. The competition and pricing pressure, in turn may require us to make sustained post-award efforts to reduce costs in order to realize revenues under these contracts. If we are not successful in reducing the amount of costs we anticipate, our profitability on these contracts will be negatively impacted. Starting in 2008, we have substantially expanded our international operations that subject us to risks associated with operating in international markets. For fiscal 2008 and 2007, revenue from sales of our products and services internationally (for our purposes, outside of China) represented approximately 44.6% and 4.9%, respectively, of our total revenue. Although we continue to expand our international operations, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products and services. To the extent that we cannot do so in a timely manner, our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. International operations are subject to inherent risks, including the following: · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers or restrictions; · longer accounts receivable payment cycles and the difficulty of enforcing contracts and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; · difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; · potentially adverse tax consequences; · the burdens of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws; · import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and each other country in which we operate; 11 · exposure to different legal standards and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; · currency fluctuations and restrictions; · political, social and economic instability, including war and the threat of war, acts of terrorism, pandemics, boycotts, curtailment of trade or other business restrictions; and · periodic foreign economic downturns. Any of these factors may adversely affect our future international sales and, consequently, our business and operating results. Furthermore, as we increase our international sales, total revenue may also be affected to a greater extent by seasonal fluctuations resulting from lower sales that typically occur during the summer months in Europe and other parts of the world. We believe that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our revenue, and that continued growth and profitability may require further expansion of our international operations. Our future revenues depend on our ability to consistently bid and win new contracts and renew existing contracts and, therefore, our failure to effectively obtain future contracts could adversely affect our profitability. Our future revenues and overall results of operations require us to successfully bid on new contracts and renew existing contracts. Contract proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process, which is affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. If negative market conditions arise, or if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or the required governmental approval, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could adversely affect our profitability. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, ratings downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions that have included severely restricted credit and declines in real estate values. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to utilize our current credit facilities and finance our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies such that our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations might be impaired. Without sufficient liquidity, we may be forced to curtail our operations. Adverse market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities and access the capital necessary to operate and grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns. The current tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect the ability of our customers to obtain financing for purchases of our services and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our services. We are unable to predict the duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and the global adverse economic conditions and the effect such events might have on our business. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. Our results could be adversely impacted by product quality and performance. We manufacture or install products based on specific requirements of each of our customers. We believe that future orders of our products or services will depend on our ability to maintain the performance, reliability and quality standards required by our customers. If our products or services have performance, reliability or quality problems, we may experience delays in the collection of accounts receivables, higher manufacturing or installation costs, additional warranty and service expense, and reduced, cancelled or discontinued orders. Additionally, performance, reliability or quality claims from our customers, with or without merit, could result in costly and time-consuming litigation that could require significant time and attention of management and involve significant monetary damages. Continued price volatility and supply constraints in the steel and aluminum markets could prevent us from meeting delivery schedules to our customers or reduce our profit margins. We buy semi-finished products made of aluminum, steel and glass, and, to a degree, our business is dependent on the prices and supply of steel and aluminum, which, along with glass, are the principal raw materials used in our products. The steel and aluminum industries are highly cyclical in nature, and steel and aluminum prices have been volatile in recent years and may remain volatile in the future. Our purchases of aluminum ranged from approximately $3.48 to $6.65 per pound and $5.73 to $6.94 per pound during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, fluctuations of approximately 91% and 21% respectively. The price we paid for steel also fluctuated. For the year ended December 31, 2008, prices for seamless steel tubes ranged from approximately $761 to $1069 per ton (a difference of approximately 40%), prices for angled steel ranged from approximately $571 to $805 per ton (a difference of approximately 41%), and prices for steel plates ranged from approximately $600 to $996 per ton (a difference of approximately 66%). 12 Steel and aluminum prices are influenced by numerous factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition, labor costs, production costs, import duties and other trade restrictions. In the past, there have been unusually rapid and significant increases in steel and aluminum prices and severe shortages in the steel and aluminum industries due in part to increased demand from China’s expanding economy and high energy prices. We do not have any long-term contracts for the purchase of steel and aluminum and normally do not maintain inventories of steel and aluminum in excess of our current production requirements. We can give you no assurance that steel and aluminum will remain available or that prices will not continue to be volatile. If the available supply of steel and aluminum declines, we could experience price increases that we are not able to pass on to our customers, a deterioration of service from our suppliers or interruptions or delays that may cause us not to meet delivery schedules to our customers. Any of these problems could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is characterized by long periods for collection from our customers and short periods for payment to our suppliers, the combination of which may cause us to have liquidity problems. We experience an average accounts settlement period ranging from two months to as high as one year from the time we provide services to the time we receive payment from our customers for domestic contracts. For our overseas projects, we typically experience an account settlement period according to the contracts. In most international contracts, the account settlement period is approximately two months. In contrast, we typically need to place certain deposits with our suppliers on a portion of the purchase price in advance and for some suppliers we must maintain a deposit for future orders. We are typically paid by the contractor the entire amount due to us for our services and products once the entire project is completed, which could be significantly after we complete the curtain wall portion of the project. China’s policy requires the contractor to pay 85% of our total contract value to us before the project is completed, and the remainder may be paid when the contractor completes the entire project. Because our payment cycle is considerably shorter than our receivable cycle, we may experience working capital shortages. Working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in our results of operations and liquidity. We cannot assure you that system problems, industry trends or other issues will not extend our collection period, adversely impact our working capital. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. The markets we serve are very competitive, price and lead-time sensitive and are impacted by changes in the commercial construction industry, including unforeseen delays in project timing and work flow. In addition, competition in the markets of the building industry and in the metal coil coating industry is intense. It is based primarily on: · quality; · service; · delivery; · ability to provide added value in the design and engineering of buildings; · price; · speed of construction in buildings and components; and · personal relationships with customers. We compete with several large integrated glass manufacturers, numerous specialty, architectural glass and window fabricators, and major contractors and subcontractors. We also compete with a number of other manufacturers of engineered building systems ranging from small local firms to large national firms. In addition, we and other manufacturers of engineered high-end curtain walls compete with alternative methods of building construction. If these alternative building methods compete successfully against us, such competition could adversely affect us. Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns. If the economy weakens, then our revenues, profits and our financial condition may deteriorate. Many of our competitors have greater financial or other resources than we do. 13 We are currently a defendant in a lawsuit in Hong Kong regarding our acquisition of Techwell Engineering Limited (“Techwell”) in November 2007, pursuant to which the sellers have alleged that, inter alia, (i) we misrepresented to them the financial status of our company and operations during the course the acquisition was being negotiated; and (ii) we failed to perform our obligations under a settlement agreement alleged to be agreed by us in January 2009. We believe this lawsuit to have limited merits and we shall vigorously defend such lawsuit. If however we are unsuccessful in defending the lawsuit, we may be required to pay damages and we may potentially lose our ownership of Techwell. Pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement dated November 7, 2007, the previous shareholders of Techwell, Mr. Ng, Chi Sum and Miss Yam, Mei Ling Maria agreed to sell 100% of the shares in Techwell to us for approximately $11.7 million in cash and shares of common stock of our company. Subsequent to the said acquisition, Mr. Ng and Miss Yam were employed by Techwell. On January 14, 2009, the board of directors of Techwell passed a board resolution, to dismiss both Mr. Ng and Miss Yam with immediate effect and remove Mr. Ng from the board of Techwell (the “Resolution”). On January 16, 2009, Mr. Ng and Miss Yam filed a lawsuit in the High Court of Hong Kong against us and our subsidiary, Full Art International Limited. The lawsuit alleges that, inter alia, (i) we misrepresented to them the financial status of our company and operations during the course the acquisition of Techwell was being negotiated; (ii) we failed to perform our obligations under a settlement agreement alleged to be agreed by us in January 2009; and (iii) the dismissal of Mr. Ng was unlawful and invalid. On January 23, 2009 an ex-parte injunction order was granted to Mr. Ng, restraining us from implementing the Resolution, which was eventually dismissed with immediate effect on February 25, 2009 after a court session in the High Court of Hong Kong. Mr. Ng was also ordered to bear the costs of the various court proceedings in connection with the said injunction order. On March 27, 2009, Mr. Ng and Miss Yam filed a summons in the High Court of Hong Kong seeking a court order for leave to join our principal shareholder, KGE Group Limited, as a defendant of the said lawsuit. We intend to vigorously defend this pending lawsuit; however, no assurance can be given that the lawsuit will be resolved in our favor. Even if we successfully defend the lawsuit, we may incur substantial costs defending or settling the lawsuit, in addition to a possible diversion of the time and attention of our management from our business. If we are unsuccessful in defending the lawsuit, we may be required to pay a significant amount of damages and/or we may potentially lose ownership of Techwell, which will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we acquire or invest in other businesses or other assets, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for such transactions. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses and other assets that we believe are strategic. We may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. Even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business or other asset, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: · retaining key employees and maintaining the key business and customer relationships of the businesses we acquire; · cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization; · the possibility that the combined company would not achieve the expected benefits, including any anticipated operating and product synergies, of the acquisition as quickly as anticipated or that the costs of, or operational difficulties arising from, an acquisition would be greater than anticipated; · significant acquisition-related accounting adjustments or charges, particularly relating to an acquired company's deferred revenue, that may cause reported revenue and profits of the combined company to be lower than the sum of their stand-alone revenue and profits; · the need to integrate an acquired company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting, and the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; and · litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risks as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or other third parties. Future acquisitions and investments could also involve the issuance of our equity and equity-linked securities (potentially diluting our existing stockholders), the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased cash and non-cash expenses such as stock-based compensation. Any of the foregoing factors could harm our financial condition or prevent us from achieving improvements in our financial condition and operating performance that could have otherwise been achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. Our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. Our business activities may require our employees to travel to and work in high security risk countries, which may result in employee death or injury, repatriation costs or other unforeseen costs. As a multinational company, our employees often travel to and work in high security risk countries around the world that are undergoing political, social and economic upheavals resulting in war, civil unrest, criminal activity or acts of terrorism. As the size and scope our international projects have grown, so has the number of our employees that are required to work in high-risk countries. Currently we have approximately 31 employees working in Doha, Qatar and 66 employees in Dubai, UAE. During the peak construction period, we will have about 52 installation workers in Doha and about 400 installation workers in Dubai, which will consist of about 25% full-time company employees (engineers, project managers and supervisors) and 75% non-company contract labor. As a result, we may be subject to costs related to employee death or injury, repatriation or other unforeseen circumstances. 14 Force majeure events, including natural disasters and terrorists’ actions have negatively impacted and could further negatively impact the economies in which we operate, which may affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Force majeure events, including natural disasters, such as Typhoon Pai Bi An that affected the Southeastern China Coast in August 2006 and terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, could negatively impact the economies in which we operate. We typically remain obligated to perform our services after a terrorist action or natural disaster unless the contract contains a force majeure clause that relieves us of our contractual obligations in such an extraordinary event. If we are not able to react quickly to force majeure, our operations may be affected significantly, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may suffer as a result of product liability or defective products. We may produce products which injure or kill individuals despite proper testing. Existing PRC, Qatar and UAE laws and regulations do not require us to maintain third party liability insurance to cover product liability claims. In the United States and Australia, we are required to maintain third party liability insurance. However, if a product liability claim is brought against us, it may, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, result in damage to our reputation, breach of contract with our customers, decreased demand for our products, costly litigation, product recalls, loss of revenue, and the inability to commercialize some products. We incur costs to comply with environmental laws and have liabilities for environmental cleanups. Because we have air emissions, discharge wastewater, and handle hazardous substances and solid waste at our fabrication facilities, we incur costs and liabilities to comply with environmental laws and regulations and may incur significant additional costs as those laws and regulations change in the future or if there is an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. The operations of our fabrication facilities are subject to stringent and complex environmental laws and regulations that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent waste for disposal. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. If our partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to legal liability, loss of reputation or reduced profits. We sometimes enter into subcontracts, joint ventures and other contractual arrangements with outside partners to jointly bid on and execute a particular project. The success of these joint projects depends upon, among other things, the satisfactory performance of the contractual obligations of our partners. If any of our partners fails to satisfactorily perform its contractual obligations, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to complete the project. If we are unable to adequately address our partner’s performance issues, then our client could terminate the joint project, exposing us to legal liability, loss of reputation or reduced profits. We are dependent on certain key personnel and loss of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is, to a certain extent, attributable to the management, sales and marketing, and operational expertise of key personnel. Key personnel include, but is not limited to, Luo Ken Yi, our Chief Executive Officer, Tang Nianzhong, our Vice General Manager, and Ye Ning, our Vice General Manager, each of whom perform vital functions in the operation of our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain these managers after the term of their employment contracts expire. The loss of these managers could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We must attract, recruit and retain a sizeable workforce of technically competent employees. Our ability to effectively implement our business strategy will depend upon, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of additional highly skilled and experienced management and other key personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hire or retain such employees. 15 We cannot guarantee the protection of our intellectual property rights and if infringement or counterfeiting of our intellectual property rights occurs, our reputation and business may be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to preserve our patents and trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We currently own seven-six patents, of which forty-nine are approved, six are pending approval and twenty-one are in the application stage. Of the forty-nine approved, forty-nine are in China and seven are in the US, Europe, Japan and Hong Kong. If we fail to maintain our patents and trade secret protections, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary rights. In addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage. If a third party initiates litigation regarding our patents, and is successful, a court could revoke our patents or limit the scope of coverage for those patents. We also rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. We attempt to protect this information with security measures such as the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate collaborators. It is possible that these individuals will breach these agreements and that any remedies for a breach will be insufficient to allow us to recover our costs. Furthermore, our trade secrets, know-how and other technology may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Furthermore, we have registered and applied for registration of our trademarks in the PRC, where we have a substantial business presence, to protect the reputation of our products. Our products are sold under these trademarks. There is no assurance that there will not be any infringement of our brand name or other registered trademarks or counterfeiting of our products in the future. Should any such infringement or counterfeiting occur, our reputation and business may be adversely affected. We may also incur significant expenses and substantial amounts of time and effort to enforce our intellectual property rights in the future. Such diversion of our resources may adversely affect our existing business and future expansion plans. We enjoyed certain preferential tax concessions and loss of these preferential tax concessions may cause our tax liabilities to increase and our profitability to decline. We have historically enjoyed preferential tax concessions in the PRC as a high-tech enterprise. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law (the “EIT Law”) was enacted on March 16, 2007. Under the EIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, China adopted a uniform tax rate of 25.0% for all enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) and canceled several tax incentives enjoyed by foreign-invested enterprises. However, for foreign-invested enterprises established before the promulgation of the EIT Law, a five-year transition period is provided during which reduced rates will apply but gradually be phased out. Because we are classified as high tech foreign-invested enterprise, prior to 2008 we were subject to a 15% preferential tax rate in China. We believe that our tax rate will gradually increase to 25% during a five-year transition period commencing in 2008 until it reaches 25% in 2012. Further, any future increase in the enterprise income tax rate applicable to us or other adverse tax treatments, such as the discontinuation of preferential tax treatments for high and new technology enterprises altogether, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO US DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China, and changes in the political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and the results of operations and financial condition. Our business operations may be adversely affected by the current and future political environment in the PRC. The PRC has operated as a socialist state since the mid-1900s and is controlled by the Communist Party of China. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence and control over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC has only permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities since the late-1970s. The government of the PRC has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, raw materials, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. Under current leadership, the government of the PRC has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the government of the PRC will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC, particularly in our industry since it involves obtaining project contracts from the government of China and other countries. Our executive officers and employees have not been subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prior to 2007. We can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 The PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business. The PRC’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes, in which system decided legal cases have little value as precedents unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. The Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We are considered a foreign persons or foreign funded enterprise under PRC laws, and as a result, we are required to comply with PRC laws and regulations. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. If the relevant authorities find us in violation of PRC laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: · levying fines; · revoking our business and other licenses; · requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and · requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. A slowdown in the Chinese economy or an increase in its inflation rate may slow down our growth and profitability. The Chinese economy has grown at a rate of approximately 9% for more than 25 years, making it the fastest growing major economy in recorded history. In 2007, China's economy grew by approximately 11.4%, the fastest pace in more than a decade, according the National Bureau of Statistics. In particular, China's construction industry had grown dramatically in that year. We cannot assure you that growth of the Chinese economy will be steady, that inflation will be controllable or that any slowdown in the economy or uncontrolled inflation will not have a negative effect on our business. Several years ago, the Chinese economy experienced deflation, which may recur in the future. More recently, the Chinese government announced its intention to continuously use macroeconomic tools and regulations to slow the rate of growth of the Chinese economy, the results of which are difficult to predict. Adverse changes in the Chinese economy will likely impact the financial performance of a variety of industries in China that use or would be candidates to use our products. If such adverse changes were to occur, our customers and potential customers could reduce spending on our products and services. PRC regulations relating to acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities has created regulatory uncertainties that could restrict or limit our ability to operate. Our failure to obtain the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, for the listing and trading of our common stock on a national securities exchange in the United States could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our common stock. Within the last five years, the PRC government has, on several occasions, amended its regulations relating to overseas listings of PRC businesses. Most recently, on August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the Ministry of Commerce, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, CSRC and SAFE, jointly issued the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors. This regulation became effective on September 8, 2006 and includes provisions that purport to require offshore special purpose vehicles: (i) controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or citizens; and (ii) formed for the purpose of effecting an overseas listing of a PRC company to obtain the approval of CSRC prior to the completion of the overseas listing. On September 8, 2006, CSRC published procedures regarding the approval process associated with overseas listings of special purpose vehicles. There is little precedent as to how CSRC will interpret the new regulation and apply the related procedures. Our PRC counsel, Guangdong Seagull Law Firm, has advised us that because we completed our restructuring before September 8, 2006, the effective date of the new regulation, it is not necessary for us to submit the application to the CSRC for its approval, and the listing and trading of our Common Stock on a national securities exchange does not require CSRC approval. 17 If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC approval was required for our initial public offering that was completed on October 3, 2007, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our initial public offering or subsequent offerings into the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our Common Stock. These new rules may significantly affect the means by which offshore-onshore restructurings are undertaken in China in connection with offshore private equity and venture capital financings, mergers and acquisitions. It is expected that such transactional activity in China in the near future will require significant case-by-case guidance from Ministry of Commerce and other government authorities as appropriate. Given the uncertainties regarding interpretation and application of the new rules, we may need to expend significant time and resources to maintain compliance. It is uncertain how our business operations or future strategy will be affected by the interpretations and implementation of these new rules. Our business operations or future strategy could be adversely affected by these new rules. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities. If we make equity compensation grants to persons who are PRC citizens, they may be required to register with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the PRC, or SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional equity compensation plans for our directors and employees and other parties under PRC law. On April 6, 2007, SAFE issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, also know as “Circular 78.” It is not clear whether Circular 78 covers all forms of equity compensation plans or only those which provide for the granting of stock options. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by a non-PRC listed company, such as our company, after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 will be burdensome and time consuming. Although we have not made any equity compensation grants to PRC residents under our 2007 Equity Incentive Plan, future participants of our equity incentive plan or any other equity compensation plan we may adopt who are PRC citizens may be required to register with SAFE. We have officers, directors, and employees that are eligible to receive grants under our equity incentive plan who are also PRC citizens. If it is determined that any of our equity incentive plan is subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and participants of our equity incentive plan who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our PRC employees. In that case, our business operations may be adversely affected. Any recurrence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), Avian Flu, or another widespread public health problem, in the PRC could adversely affect our operations. A renewed outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, Avian Flu or another widespread public health problem in China, where all of our manufacturing facilities are located and where all of our sales occur, could have a negative effect on our operations. Such an outbreak could have an impact on our operations as a result of: · quarantines or closures of some of our manufacturing facilities, which would severely disrupt our operations, · the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and · a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our operations. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. PRC companies have historically not adopted a Western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which includes strong corporate governance, internal controls and, computer, financial and other control systems. In addition, we may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls which could impact the reliability of our financial statements and prevent us from complying with SEC rules and regulations and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any actual or perceived weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal control over financial reporting, disclosure of management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting or disclosure of our public accounting firm’s attestation to or report on management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. 18 You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based upon U.S. laws, including the federal securities laws or other foreign laws against us or our management. Most of our current operations are conducted in China. Moreover, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of China. All or substantially all of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States and in the PRC. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these persons. In addition, uncertainty exists as to whether the courts of China would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our officers and/or directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities law of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in China against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. The ability of our Chinese operating subsidiaries to pay dividends may be restricted due to foreign exchange control regulations of China. The ability of our Chinese operating subsidiaries to pay dividends may be restricted due to the foreign exchange control policies and availability of cash balance of the Chinese operating subsidiaries. Because substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and a majority of our revenues are generated in China, all of our revenue being earned and currency received are denominated in Renminbi (RMB). RMB is subject to the exchange control regulation in China, and, as a result, we may unable to distribute any dividends outside of China due to PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into US Dollars. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SECURITIES AND RELATED REGULATIONS Our stock price is volatile and you might not be able to sell your securities at or above the price you have paid. Since our initial public offering and listing of our Common Stock in October 2007, the price at which our common stock had traded has been highly volatile, with a high and low sales price of $0.60 and $27.25, respectively, as through March 31, 2009. You might not be able to sell the shares of our common stock at or above the price you have paid. The stock market has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the performance of its listed companies. Moreover, only a limited number of our shares are traded each day, which could increase the volatility of the price of our stock. These market fluctuations might cause our stock price to fall regardless of our performance. The market price of our Common Stock might fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results of operations; · variations in our operating results, which could cause us to fail to meet analysts’ or investors’ expectations; · conditions and trends in our industry and the economy; · future sales of equity or debt securities, including sales which dilute existing investors. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, as the future sale of a substantial amount of outstanding stock in the public marketplace could reduce the price of our common stock. The market price of our Common Stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 53.3 million shares of Common Stock outstanding, and approximately 19.4 million have been registered and are freely tradable without further restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, by persons other than our affiliates (within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act). In addition, we registered a total of 5.7 million shares of common stock that are issuable upon the conversion and exercise of outstanding bonds and warrants. All of the shares included in the effective registration statement as described above may be freely sold and transferred except if subject to a lock up agreement. 19 Our principal stockholder holds 33,122,554 shares which may be sold subject to Rule 144. Under Rule 144, an affiliate stockholder who has satisfied a the required holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three-month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. As of December 31, 2008, 1% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock was approximately 532,569 shares. Non-affiliate stockholders are not subject to volume limitations. Any substantial sale of common stock pursuant to any resale prospectus or Rule 144 may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock by creating an excessive supply. Our principal stockholder has significant influence over us. As of March 31, 2009, our largest shareholder, KGE Group Limited, or KGE Group, beneficially owns or controls approximately 62% of our outstanding shares. Luo Ken Yi, who is our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, and Ye Ning, who is our Vice General Manager and a director, are directors of KGE Group. In addition, Luo Ken Yi and Ye Ning own approximately 70% and 10%, respectively, of KGE Group’s issued and outstanding shares. As a result of its holding, KGE Group has controlling influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors, and other significant corporate actions. KGE Group also has the power to prevent or cause a change in control. In addition, without the consent of KGE Group, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of KGE Group, and its control persons, may differ from the interests of our shareholders. Mandatory redemption of the bonds could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and cash resources. If we are required to redeem all or any portion of the $8 million and $20 million outstanding bonds, this may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and cash resources, and may impair our ability to continue to operate. In addition, at any time after April 12, 2010, each holder of the 2007 Bonds can require us to redeem the 2007 Bonds at 126.51% of the principal amount of the 2007 Bonds and we are required to redeem any outstanding 2007 Bonds at 150.87% of its principal amount on April 4, 2012. Also, on April 15 and October 15 of each year on or after April 15, 2010, the holders of the 2008 Bonds may require us to redeem the 2008 Bonds at 116.61% of their principal amount. We are required to redeem any outstanding 2008 Bonds at 116.61% of its principal amount on April 15, 2011. If a triggering event occurs and we are requested by the holders to repurchase all or a portion of the 2007 or 2008 Bonds, we will be required to pay cash to redeem all or a portion of the bonds. If we are required to repurchase all or a portion of the bonds and do not have sufficient cash to make the repurchase, we may be required to obtain third party financing to do so, and there can be no assurances that we will be able to secure financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, results of operations and stock price. We issued $30 million in convertible bonds that include features that will have the effect of reducing our reported operating results during the term of the bonds. We issued $10,000,000 Variable Rate Convertible Bonds due in 2012 in April 2007 (the “2007 Bonds”) and $20,000,000 12% Convertible Bonds due in 2011 in April 2008 (the “2008 Bonds”). At of March 31, 2009, $2 million of the 2007 Bonds have been converted. The terms of 2007 Bonds and 2008 Bonds include conversion features allowing the holders to convert the bonds into shares of our common stock. Certain of those conversion features that allow for the reduction in conversion price upon the occurrence of stated events constitute a “beneficial conversion feature” for accounting purposes. The accounting treatment related to the beneficial conversion and mandatory redemption features of the 2007 and 2008 Bonds and the value of the 2007 and 2008 Bond Warrants will have an adverse impact on our results of operations for the term of the bonds. The application of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles required us to allocate approximately $2,171,429 to the beneficial conversion feature of the 2007 Bonds, and $2,183,000 and $1,413,503 to the 2007 Bonds Warrants and 2008 Bond Warrants, respectively, which have been reflected in our financial statements as an interest discount. Also, we have determined that the total redemption premium associated with the mandatory redemption feature of the 2007 and 2008 Bonds is $4,069,600 and $3,322,000, respectively. All of the aforementioned amounts associated with the beneficial conversion and mandatory redemption feature of the bonds and the value of the bond warrants are being amortized as additional interest expense over the term of the bonds. This accounting will result in an increase in interest expense in all reporting periods during the term of the bonds, and, as a result, reduce our net income accordingly. There are limited restrictive covenants in the Trust Deeds governing our outstanding bonds relating to our ability to incur future indebtedness. Each of the Trust Deeds for the bonds that we issued in 2007 and 2008 does not limit our ability to incur indebtedness, except that as long as any of such bonds remains outstanding, we agreed not to create any encumbrance upon our present or future assets or revenues to secure any indebtedness or to secure any guarantee of or indemnity in respect of any such indebtedness unless our obligations under the bonds are secured by the same encumbrance or have the benefit from a guarantee or indemnity in substantially identical terms. The Trust Deeds governing the bonds do not contain any financial or operating covenants or restrictions on the payment of dividends, incurrence of indebtedness (other than as stated above), transactions with affiliates, incurrence of liens, or the issuance or repurchase of securities by us or any of our subsidiaries. We, therefore, may incur additional debt, including secured indebtedness or indebtedness by, or other obligations of, our subsidiaries to which the bonds would be structurally subordinate. A higher level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our indebtedness or that future working capital, borrowings or equity financing will be available to pay or refinance such indebtedness. 20 Our officers and directors have limited experience in public company reporting and financial accounting, which could impair our ability to satisfy public company filing requirements and increase our securities compliance costs. Our officers and directors have limited experience as officers and directors of a publicly traded company, or in complying with the regulatory requirements applicable to a public company. As a result, we could have difficulty satisfying the regulatory requirements applicable to public companies, which could adversely affect the market for our common stock. At present, we rely upon outside experts to advise us on matters relating to financial accounting and public company reporting. While we believe that it will be possible to satisfy our public company reporting requirements through the use of third party experts, our general and administrative costs will remain higher to the extent our officers alone are not able to satisfy our public company reporting requirements. If we fail to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Of 2002, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. Rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, and attestation of this assessment by our company’s independent registered public accountants. Last year’s 2007 annual report on Form 10-K contained our first annual assessment of our internal controls requirement and this annual report on Form 10-K for 2008 contains our first attestation requirement of management’s assessment by our independent registered public accountants. The standards that must be met for management to assess the internal control over financial reporting as effective are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards. We may encounter problems or delays in completing activities necessary to make an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the attestation process by our independent registered public accountants is new and we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving an attestation of our assessment by our independent registered public accountants. If we cannot assess our internal control over financial reporting as effective, or our independent registered public accountants are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted. As more fully discussed in Item 9A of this Form 10-K, management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting identified numerous material weaknesses that rendered our internal control over financial reporting to be ineffective as of December 31, 2008. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Our material weaknesses include, but are not limited to, a lack of technical expertise and processes to ensure compliance with our policies in a major operating subsidiary, insufficient complement of personnel with an appropriate knowledge and skill to comply with our specific engineering financial accounting and reporting requirements and low materiality thresholds, and noncompliance with our authorization policy. While we have implemented steps to remediate the identified deficiencies, as disclosed in Item 9A of this Form 10-K, there can be no guarantee that we will be successful in our attempts to correct our significant deficiencies. Our identified material weaknesses may raise concerns for investors and may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. We do not foresee paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not plan to declare or pay any cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future and we currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth. As a result, you should not rely on an investment in our securities if you require dividend income. Capital appreciation, if any, of our shares may be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Moreover, you may not be able to sell your shares in our company at or above the price you paid for them. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 