ITEM 1A. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND GROWTH STRATEGY We were formed in August 2003 and have a limited operating history; our management has a limited history of operating a REIT and a public company and may therefore have difficulty in successfully and profitably operating our business. We were organized in 2003 and thus have a limited operating history. We first elected REIT status for our taxable year ended December 31, 2004. We are subject to the risks generally associated with the formation of any new business, including unproven business models, uncertain market acceptance and competition with established businesses. Our management has limited experience in operating a REIT and a public company. Therefore, you should be especially cautious in drawing conclusions about the ability of our management team to execute our business plan. We expect to continue to experience rapid growth and may not be able to adapt our management and operational systems to integrate the net-leased facilities we have acquired and are developing or those that we may acquire or develop in the future without unanticipated disruption or expense. We are currently experiencing a period of rapid growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt our management, administrative, accounting and operational systems, or hire and retain sufficient operational staff, to integrate and manage the facilities we have acquired and are developing and those that we may acquire or develop. Our failure to successfully integrate and manage our current portfolio of facilities or any future acquisitions or developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may be unable to access capital, which would slow our growth. Our business plan contemplates growth through acquisitions and development of facilities. As a REIT, we are required to make cash distributions, which reduce our ability to fund acquisitions and developments with retained earnings. We are dependent on acquisition financings and access to the capital markets for cash to make investments in new facilities. Due to market or other conditions, such as the dislocations in the credit markets beginning in 2007, there may be times when we will have limited access to capital from the equity and debt markets. During such periods, virtually all of our available capital will be required to meet existing commitments and to reduce existing debt. We may not be able to obtain additional equity or debt capital or dispose of assets on favorable terms, if at all, at the time we need additional capital to acquire healthcare properties on a competitive basis or to meet our obligations. Our ability to grow through acquisitions and developments will be limited if we are unable to obtain debt or equity financing, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Dependence on our tenants for payments of rent and interest may adversely impact our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We expect to continue to qualify as a REIT and, accordingly, as a REIT operating in the healthcare industry, we are not permitted by current tax law to operate or manage the businesses conducted in our facilities. 9 Table of Contents Accordingly, we rely almost exclusively on rent payments from our tenants under leases or interest payments from operators under mortgage loans we have made to them for cash with which to make distributions to our stockholders. We have no control over the success or failure of these tenants’ businesses. Significant adverse changes in the operations of any facility, or the financial condition of any tenant, operator or guarantor, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to collect rent and interest payments and, accordingly, on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Facility management by our tenants and their compliance with state and federal healthcare laws could have a material impact on our tenants’ operating and financial condition and, in turn, their ability to pay rent and interest to us. It may be costly to replace defaulting tenants and we may not be able to replace defaulting tenants with suitable replacements on suitable terms. Failure on the part of a tenant to comply materially with the terms of a lease could give us the right to terminate our lease with that tenant, repossess the applicable facility, cross default certain other leases and loans with that tenant and enforce the payment obligations under the lease. The process of terminating a lease with a defaulting tenant and repossessing the applicable facility may be costly and require a disproportionate amount of management’s attention. In addition, defaulting tenants or their affiliates may initiate litigation in connection with a lease termination or repossession against us or our subsidiaries. For example, in connection with our termination of leases relating to the Houston Town and Country Hospital and Medical Office Building in late 2006, we were subsequently named as one of a number of defendants in lawsuits filed by various affiliates of the defaulting tenant. Resolution of these types of lawsuits in a manner materially adverse to us may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If a tenant-operator defaults and we choose to terminate our lease, we then would be required to find another tenant-operator. The transfer of most types of healthcare facilities is highly regulated, which may result in delays and increased costs in locating a suitable replacement tenant. The sale or lease of these properties to entities other than healthcare operators may be difficult due to the added cost and time of refitting the properties. If we are unable to re-let the properties to healthcare operators, we may be forced to sell the properties at a loss due to the repositioning expenses likely to be incurred by non-healthcare purchasers. Alternatively, we may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the facility to other uses. There can be no assurance that we would be able to find another tenant in a timely fashion, or at all, or that, if another tenant were found, we would be able to enter into a new lease on favorable terms. Defaults by our tenants under our leases may adversely affect the timing of and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our revenues are dependent upon our relationship with, and success of, Vibra and Prime. As of December 31, 2007, we owned 25 facilities which were being operated by eight operators, and we had mortgage loans to two operators. Vibra Healthcare, LLC, or Vibra, leased eight of our facilities, representing 21.6% of the original total cost of our operating facilities and mortgage loans as of December 31, 2007, and affiliates of Prime Healthcare Services, Inc. leased or mortgaged nine facilities, representing 39.6% of the original total cost of our operating facilities and mortgage loans as of December 31, 2007. Total revenue from Vibra and Prime, including rent, percentage rent and interest, was approximately $30.1 million and $24.9 million, respectively, or 31.3% and 25.9%, respectively, of total revenue from continuing operations in the year ended December 31, 2007. In 2007, we completed transactions with Prime for approximately $243.0 million. We may pursue additional transactions with Vibra or Prime in the future. Our relationship with Vibra and Prime, and their respective financial performance and resulting ability to satisfy their lease and loan obligations to us are material to our financial results and our ability to service our debt and make distributions to our stockholders. We are dependent upon the ability of Vibra and Prime to make rent and loan payments to us, and their failure or delay to meet these obligations would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Accounting rules may require consolidation of entities to which we have made loans and other adjustments to our financial statements. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued FASB Interpretation No. 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 (ARB No. 51),” in January 2003, and a further interpretation of FIN 46 in December 2003 (FIN 46-R, and collectively FIN 46). FIN 46 clarifies 10 Table of Contents the application of ARB No. 51, “Consolidated Financial Statements,” to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties, referred to as variable interest entities. FIN 46 generally requires consolidation by the party that has a majority of the risk and/or rewards, referred to as the primary beneficiary. FIN 46 applies immediately to variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003. Under certain circumstances, generally accepted accounting principles may require us to account for loans to thinly capitalized companies as equity investments. The resulting accounting treatment of certain income and expense items may adversely affect our results of operations, and consolidation of balance sheet amounts may adversely affect any loan covenants. The bankruptcy or insolvency of our tenants under our leases could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. Some of our tenants, including North Cypress Medical Center Operating Company, Bucks County Oncoplastic Institute, Monroe Hospital and Vibra, are and some of our prospective tenants may be, newly organized, have limited or no operating history and may be dependent on loans from us to acquire the facility’s operations and for initial working capital. Any bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of our tenants could bar us from collecting pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or their property, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from the bankruptcy court. A tenant bankruptcy could delay our efforts to collect past due balances under our leases and loans, and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. If a lease is assumed by a tenant in bankruptcy, we expect that all pre-bankruptcy balances due under the lease would be paid to us in full. However, if a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. Any secured claims we have against our tenants may only be paid to the extent of the value of the collateral, which may not cover any or all of our losses. Any unsecured claim we hold against a bankrupt entity may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. We may recover none or substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims, which would harm our financial condition. Our facilities are currently leased to only eight tenants, five of which were recently organized and have limited or no operating histories, and failure of any of these tenants and the guarantors of their leases to meet their obligations to us would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our existing facilities are currently leased to Vibra, Post Acute, Prime, Healthcare Partners of America (HPA), Gulf States, North Cypress, Bucks County Oncoplastic Institute (“BCO”) and Monroe Hospital or their subsidiaries or affiliates. If any of our tenants were to experience financial difficulties, the tenant may not be able to pay its rent. Vibra, North Cypress, BCO and Monroe Hospital were recently organized and have limited or no operating histories. Our business is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete successfully. We compete for development opportunities and opportunities to purchase healthcare facilities with, among others: • private investors; • healthcare providers, including physicians; • other REITs; • real estate partnerships; • financial institutions; and • local developers. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and may have better relationships with lenders and sellers. Competition for healthcare facilities from competitors may adversely affect our ability to acquire or develop healthcare facilities and the prices we pay for those facilities. If we are unable to acquire or develop facilities or if we pay too much for facilities, our revenue and earnings growth and financial 11 Table of Contents return could be materially adversely affected. Certain of our facilities and additional facilities we may acquire or develop will face competition from other nearby facilities that provide services comparable to those offered at our facilities and additional facilities we may acquire or develop. Some of those facilities are owned by governmental agencies and supported by tax revenues, and others are owned by tax-exempt corporations and may be supported to a large extent by endowments and charitable contributions. Those types of support are not available to our facilities and additional facilities we may acquire or develop. In addition, competing healthcare facilities located in the areas served by our facilities and additional facilities we may acquire or develop may provide healthcare services that are not available at our facilities and additional facilities we may acquire or develop. From time to time, referral sources, including physicians and managed care organizations, may change the healthcare facilities to which they refer patients, which could adversely affect our rental revenues. Our use of debt financing will subject us to significant risks, including refinancing risk and the risk of insufficient cash available for distribution to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2007, we had $480.5 million of debt outstanding. As of March 1, 2008, we have approximately $402.7 million of debt outstanding. We may borrow from other lenders in the future, or we may issue debt securities in public or private offerings and our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt we may incur. Most of our current debt is, and we anticipate that much of our future debt will be, non-amortizing and payable in balloon payments. Therefore, we will likely need to refinance at least a portion of that debt as it matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance then-existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of the then-existing debt. If principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or repaid with proceeds from other sources, such as new equity capital or sales of facilities, our cash flow may not be sufficient to repay all maturing debt in years when significant balloon payments come due. Additionally, we may incur significant penalties if we choose to prepay the debt. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $220.8 million in variable interest rate debt ($142.8 million at March 1, 2008). We may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements that involve risk, including the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that these arrangements may result in higher interest rates than we would otherwise have. Moreover, no hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Most of our current tenants have, and prospective tenants may have, an option to purchase the facilities we lease to them which could disrupt our operations. Most of our current tenants have, and some prospective tenants will have, the option to purchase the facilities we lease to them. We cannot assure you that the formulas we have developed for setting the purchase price will yield a fair market value purchase price. Any purchase not at fair market value may present risks of challenge from healthcare regulatory authorities. In the event our tenants and prospective tenants determine to purchase the facilities they lease either during the lease term or after their expiration, the timing of those purchases will be outside of our control and we may not be able to re-invest the capital on as favorable terms, or at all. Our inability to effectively manage the turn-over of our facilities could materially adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS Our real estate and mortgage investments are and will continue to be concentrated in healthcare facilities, making us more vulnerable economically than if our investments were more diversified. We have acquired and have developed and have made mortgage investments in and expect to continue acquiring and developing and making mortgage investments in healthcare facilities. We are subject to risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate. The risks resulting from a lack of diversification become even greater as a result of our business strategy to invest in healthcare facilities. A downturn in the real estate industry could materially adversely affect the value of our facilities. A downturn in the healthcare industry could negatively affect our tenants’ ability to make lease or loan payments to us and, consequently, our ability to meet debt service obligations or make distributions to our stockholders. These adverse effects could be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments outside of real estate or outside of healthcare facilities. Our facilities may not have efficient alternative uses, which could impede our ability to find replacement tenants in the event of termination or default under our leases. All of the facilities in our current portfolio are and all of the facilities we expect to acquire or develop in the future will be net-leased healthcare facilities. If we or our tenants terminate the leases for these facilities or if these tenants lose their regulatory authority to operate these facilities, we may not be able to locate suitable replacement tenants to lease the facilities for their specialized uses. Alternatively, we may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the facilities to other uses. Any loss of revenues or additional capital expenditures occurring as a result could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could hinder our ability to meet debt service obligations or make distributions to our stockholders. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our facilities and harm our financial condition. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our facilities in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any facility that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. Our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Development and construction risks could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We have completed development and construction of four facilities which are now in operation. We expect to develop additional facilities in the future. Our development and related construction activities may subject us to the following risks: • we may have to compete for suitable development sites; • our ability to complete construction is dependent on there being no title, environmental or other legal proceedings arising during construction; • we may be subject to delays due to weather conditions, strikes and other contingencies beyond our control; • we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy healthcare regulatory and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs, delays in construction, or our abandonment of these projects; • we may incur construction costs for a facility which exceed our original estimates due to increased costs for materials or labor or other costs that we did not anticipate; and • we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities. 13 Table of Contents We expect to fund our development projects over time. The time frame required for development and construction of these facilities means that we may have to wait years for a significant cash return. In addition, our tenants may not be able to obtain managed care provider contracts in a timely manner or at all. Because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancings is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund distributions. We cannot assure you that future development projects will not be subject to delays and cost overruns. Risks associated with our development projects may reduce anticipated rental revenue which could affect the timing of, and our ability to make, distributions to our stockholders. Our facilities may not achieve expected results or we may be limited in our ability to finance future acquisitions, which may harm our financial condition and operating results and our ability to make the distributions to our stockholders required to maintain our REIT status. Acquisitions and developments entail risks that investments will fail to perform in accordance with expectations and that estimates of the costs of improvements necessary to acquire and develop facilities will prove inaccurate, as well as general investment risks associated with any new real estate investment. We anticipate that future acquisitions and developments will largely be financed through externally generated funds such as borrowings under credit facilities and other secured and unsecured debt financing and from issuances of equity securities. Because we must distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gain, each year to maintain our qualification as a REIT, our ability to rely upon income from operations or cash flow from operations to finance our growth and acquisition activities will be limited. Accordingly, if we are unable to obtain funds from borrowings or the capital markets to finance our acquisition and development activities, our ability to grow would likely be curtailed, amounts available for distribution to stockholders could be adversely affected and we could be required to reduce distributions, thereby jeopardizing our ability to maintain our status as a REIT. Newly-developed or newly-renovated facilities do not have the operating history that would allow our management to make objective pricing decisions in acquiring these facilities The purchase prices of these facilities will be based in part upon projections by management as to the expected operating results of the facilities, subjecting us to risks that these facilities may not achieve anticipated operating results or may not achieve these results within anticipated time frames. If we suffer losses that are not covered by insurance or that are in excess of our insurance coverage limits, we could lose investment capital and anticipated profits. We have purchased general liability insurance (lessor’s risk) that provides coverage for bodily injury and property damage to third parties resulting from our ownership of the healthcare facilities that are leased to and occupied by our tenants. Our leases generally require our tenants to carry general liability, professional liability, loss of earnings, all risk and extended coverage insurance in amounts sufficient to permit the replacement of the facility in the event of a total loss, subject to applicable deductibles. However, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and acts of terrorism, which may be uninsurable or not insurable at a price we or our tenants can afford. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it impracticable to use insurance proceeds to replace a facility after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the affected facility. If any of these or similar events occur, it may reduce our return from the facility and the value of our investment. Capital expenditures for facility renovation may be greater than anticipated and may adversely impact rent payments by our tenants and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Facilities, particularly those that consist of older structures, have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including periodic replacement of furniture, fixtures and equipment. Although our leases require our tenants to be primarily responsible for the cost of such expenditures, renovation of facilities involves certain risks, including the possibility of environmental problems, construction cost overruns and delays, uncertainties as to market demand or deterioration in market demand after commencement of renovation and the emergence of unanticipated competition from other facilities. All of these factors could adversely impact rent and 14 Table of Contents loan payments by our tenants, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. All of our healthcare facilities are subject to property taxes that may increase in the future and adversely affect our business. Our facilities are subject to real and personal property taxes that may increase as property tax rates change and as the facilities are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. Our leases generally provide that the property taxes are charged to our tenants as an expense related to the facilities that they occupy. As the owner of the facilities, however, we are ultimately responsible for payment of the taxes to the government. If property taxes increase, our tenants may be unable to make the required tax payments, ultimately requiring us to pay the taxes. If we incur these tax liabilities, our ability to make expected distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. As the owner and lessor of real estate, we are subject to risks under environmental laws, the cost of compliance with which and any violation of which could materially adversely affect us. Our operating expenses could be higher than anticipated due to the cost of complying with existing and future environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Various environmental laws may impose liability on a current or prior owner or operator of real property for removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances. Current or prior owners or operators may also be liable for government fines and damages for injuries to persons, natural resources and adjacent property. These environmental laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or disposal of the hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of complying with environmental laws could materially adversely affect amounts available for distribution to our stockholders and could exceed the value of all of our facilities. In addition, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure of our tenants to properly manage, dispose of or remediate such substances, including medical waste generated by physicians and our other healthcare tenants, may adversely affect our tenants or our ability to use, sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, could reduce our revenue and our financing ability. We have obtained on all facilities we have acquired or developed or on which we have made mortgage loans and intend to obtain on all future facilities we acquire Phase I environmental assessments. However, even if the Phase I environmental assessment reports do not reveal any material environmental contamination, it is possible that material environmental contamination and liabilities may exist of which we are unaware. Although the leases for our facilities and our mortgage loans generally require our operators to comply with laws and regulations governing their operations, including the disposal of medical waste, and to indemnify us for certain environmental liabilities, the scope of their obligations may be limited. We cannot assure you that our tenants would be able to fulfill their indemnification obligations and, therefore, any material violation of environmental laws could have a material adverse affect on us. In addition, environmental and occupational health and safety laws are constantly evolving, and changes in laws, regulations or policies, or changes in interpretations of the foregoing, could create liabilities where none exists today. Our interests in facilities through ground leases expose us to the loss of the facility upon breach or termination of the ground lease and may limit our use of the facility. We have acquired interests in three of our facilities, at least in part, by acquiring leasehold interests in the land on which the facility is located rather than an ownership interest in the property, and we may acquire additional facilities in the future through ground leases. As lessee under ground leases, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination, or an earlier breach by us, of the ground lease. Ground leases may also restrict our use of facilities. Our current ground lease in Marlton, New Jersey limits use of the property to operation of a 76 bed rehabilitation hospital. Our current ground lease for the facility in San Antonio limits use of the property to operation of a comprehensive rehabilitation hospital, medical research and education and other medical uses and uses reasonably incidental thereto. These restrictions and any similar future restrictions in ground leases will limit our flexibility in renting the facility and may impede our ability to sell the property. 15 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO THE HEALTHCARE INDUSTRY Reductions in reimbursement from third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, could adversely affect the profitability of our tenants and hinder their ability to make rent payments to us. Sources of revenue for our tenants and operators may include the federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs, private insurance carriers and health maintenance organizations, among others. Efforts by such payors to reduce healthcare costs will likely continue, which may result in reductions or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants. In addition, the failure of any of our tenants to comply with various laws and regulations could jeopardize their ability to continue participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored payment programs. The healthcare industry continues to face various challenges, including increased government and private payor pressure on healthcare providers to control or reduce costs. We believe that our tenants will continue to experience a shift in payor mix away from fee-for-service payors, resulting in an increase in the percentage of revenues attributable to managed care payors, government payors and general industry trends that include pressures to control healthcare costs. Pressures to control healthcare costs and a shift away from traditional health insurance reimbursement have resulted in an increase in the number of patients whose healthcare coverage is provided under managed care plans, such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations. In addition, due to the aging of the population and the expansion of governmental payor programs, we anticipate that there will be a marked increase in the number of patients relying on healthcare coverage provided by governmental payors. These changes could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of some or all of our tenants, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. A significant number of our tenants operate long-term acute care hospitals, or LTACHs. The United States Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, recently proposed a 0.71 percent increase to the LTACH prospective payment system rates for 2008. However, in light of concerns raised by an analysis of recent LTACH case mix data, CMS also proposed a budget neutrality requirement for annual payment updates. In addition to the proposed payment changes, CMS is proposing changes to its policy known as the “25 percent rule.” That rule takes into account the percentage of patients that were admitted to the LTACH from its co-located host hospital (usually a general acute care hospital). Under the current policy, if an LTACH that is a hospital-within-a-hospital or satellite facility that has more than a certain percentage (generally 25 percent) of its discharges admitted from the co-located host hospital for the cost reporting period, then the payment to the LTACH would be adjusted downward. CMS adopted a final rule that extends the 25 percent rule and implements a payment adjustment for LTACH and satellites (including grandfathered facilities) that applies to Medicare discharges that were admitted from a referring hospital that is not co-located with it. Implementation of the 25 percent rule will extend over a three year period,. For cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2007 and before July 1, 2008 (the first transition year), the threshold is no less than the lesser of 75 percent or the percentage of Medicare discharges that had been admitted to the LTACH or satellite facility during its RY 2005 cost reporting period from that referring hospital. CMS will continue to explore implementing a recommendation from MedPAC to develop facility and patient level criteria for LTACHs. If adopted as proposed, these changes could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of some of our tenants, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and existing and new laws or regulations, changes to existing laws or regulations, loss of licensure or certification or failure to obtain licensure or certification could result in the inability of our tenants to make lease payments to us. The healthcare industry is highly regulated by federal, state and local laws, and is directly affected by federal conditions of participation, state licensing requirements, facility inspections, state and federal reimbursement policies, regulations concerning capital and other expenditures, certification requirements and other such laws, regulations and rules. In addition, establishment of healthcare facilities and transfers of operations of healthcare facilities are subject to regulatory approvals not required for establishment of or transfers of other types of 16 Table of Contents commercial operations and real estate. Sanctions for failure to comply with these regulations and laws include, but are not limited to, loss of or inability to obtain licensure, fines and loss of or inability to obtain certification to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as potential criminal penalties. The failure of any tenant to comply with such laws, requirements and regulations could affect its ability to establish or continue its operation of the facility or facilities and could adversely affect the tenant’s ability to make lease payments to us which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, restrictions and delays in transferring the operations of healthcare facilities, in obtaining new third-party payor contracts including Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements, and in receiving licensure and certification approval from appropriate state and federal agencies by new tenants may affect our ability to terminate lease agreements, remove tenants that violate lease terms, and replace existing tenants with new tenants. Furthermore, these matters may affect a new tenant’s ability to obtain reimbursement for services rendered, which could adversely affect their ability to pay rent to us and to pay principal and interest on their loans from us. Our tenants are subject to fraud and abuse laws, the violation of which by a tenant may jeopardize the tenant’s ability to make lease and loan payments to us. The federal government and numerous state governments have passed laws and regulations that attempt to eliminate healthcare fraud and abuse by prohibiting business arrangements that induce patient referrals or the ordering of specific ancillary services. In addition, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 strengthened the federal anti-fraud and abuse laws to provide for stiffer penalties for violations. Violations of these laws may result in the imposition of criminal and civil penalties, including possible exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs. Imposition of any of these penalties upon any of our tenants could jeopardize any tenant’s ability to operate a facility or to make lease and loan payments, thereby potentially adversely affecting us. In the past several years, federal and state governments have significantly increased investigation and enforcement activity to detect and eliminate fraud and abuse in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, legislation has been adopted at both state and federal levels which severely restricts the ability of physicians to refer patients to entities in which they have a financial interest. It is anticipated that the trend toward increased investigation and enforcement activity in the area of fraud and abuse, as well as self-referrals, will continue in future years and could adversely affect our prospective tenants and their operations, and in turn their ability to make lease and loan payments to us. Vibra has accepted, and prospective tenants may accept, an assignment of the previous operator’s Medicare provider agreement. Vibra and other new-operator tenants that take assignment of Medicare provider agreements might be subject to federal or state regulatory, civil and criminal investigations of the previous owner’s operations and claims submissions. While we conduct due diligence in connection with the acquisition of such facilities, these types of issues may not be discovered prior to purchase. Adverse decisions, fines or recoupments might negatively impact our tenants’ financial condition. Certain of our lease arrangements may be subject to fraud and abuse or physician self-referral laws. Local physician investment in our operating partnership or our subsidiaries that own our facilities could subject our lease arrangements to scrutiny under fraud and abuse and physician self-referral laws. Under the Stark Law, and regulations adopted thereunder, if our lease arrangements do not satisfy the requirements of an applicable exception, that noncompliance could adversely affect the ability of our tenants to bill for services provided to Medicare beneficiaries pursuant to referrals from physician investors and subject us and our tenants to fines, which could impact their ability to make lease and loan payments to us. On March 26, 2004, CMS issued Phase II final rules under the Stark Law, which, together with the 2001 Phase I final rules, set forth CMS’ current interpretation and application of the Stark Law prohibition on referrals of designated health services, or DHS. These rules provide us additional guidance on application of the Stark Law through the implementation of “bright-line” tests, including additional regulations regarding the indirect compensation exception, but do not eliminate the risk that our lease arrangements and business strategy of physician investment may violate the Stark Law. Finally, the Phase II rules implemented an 18-month moratorium on physician ownership or investment in specialty hospitals imposed by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003. The moratorium imposed by the 17 Table of Contents Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, expired on June 8, 2005. However, that moratorium was retroactively extended by the passage of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, or the DRA, which requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop a strategic and implementing plan for physician investment in specialty hospitals that addresses the issues of proportionality of investment return, bona fide investment, annual disclosure of investments, and the provision of medical assistance (Medicaid) and charity care. The final report was published on August 8, 2006, at which time the moratorium expired. However, we expect that specialty hospitals will continue to be closely scrutinized by Congress and various federal and state agencies. Further, despite the expiration of the specialty hospital moratorium, in its final report, CMS expressed its intention to (i) revise the Medicare payment system to address incentives to physician investors; (ii) require disclosure of physician investment and compensation arrangements; (iii) continue to enforce the fraud and abuse laws; and (iv) continue to enforce prior violations of the MMA moratorium. We intend to use our good faith efforts to structure our lease arrangements to comply with these laws; however, if we are unable to do so, this failure may restrict our ability to permit physician investment or, where such physicians do participate, may restrict the types of lease arrangements into which we may enter, including our ability to enter into percentage rent arrangements. On September 7, 2007, CMS published Phase III regulations which modify certain aspects of the Stark Law regulations. Subsequently, the effective dates of a portion of those regulations was extended. In addition, CMS proposed additional changes to existing Stark Law regulations as part of the IPPS regulations. State certificate of need laws may adversely affect our development of facilities and the operations of our tenants. Certain healthcare facilities in which we invest may also be subject to state laws which require regulatory approval in the form of a certificate of need prior to initiation of certain projects, including, but not limited to, the establishment of new or replacement facilities, the addition of beds, the addition or expansion of services and certain capital expenditures. State certificate of need laws are not uniform throughout the United States and are subject to change. We cannot predict the impact of state certificate of need laws on our development of facilities or the operations of our tenants. In addition, certificate of need laws often materially impact the ability of competitors to enter into the marketplace of our facilities. Finally, in limited circumstances, loss of state licensure or certification or closure of a facility could ultimately result in loss of authority to operate the facility and require re-licensure or new certificate of need authorization to re-institute operations. As a result, a portion of the value of the facility may be related to the limitation on new competitors. In the event of a change in the certificate of need laws, this value may markedly decrease. RISKS RELATING TO OUR ORGANIZATION AND STRUCTURE Maryland law and Medical Properties’ charter and bylaws contain provisions which may prevent or deter changes in management and third-party acquisition proposals that you may believe to be in your best interest, depress the price of Medical Properties common stock or cause dilution. Medical Properties’ charter contains ownership limitations that may restrict business combination opportunities, inhibit change of control transactions and reduce the value of Medical Properties common stock. To qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, no more than 50% in value of Medical Properties’ outstanding stock, after taking into account options to acquire stock, may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer persons during the last half of each taxable year. Medical Properties’ charter generally prohibits direct or indirect ownership by any person of more than 9.8% in value or in number, whichever is more restrictive, of outstanding shares of any class or series of our securities, including Medical Properties common stock. Generally, Medical Properties common stock owned by affiliated owners will be aggregated for purposes of the ownership limitation. The ownership limitation could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or other transaction in which holders of common stock might receive a premium for their common stock over the then-current market price or which such holders otherwise might believe to be in their best interests. The ownership limitation provisions also may make Medical Properties common stock an unsuitable investment vehicle for any person seeking to obtain, either alone or with others as a group, ownership of more than 9.8% of either the value or number of the outstanding shares of Medical Properties common stock. Medical Properties’ charter and bylaws contain provisions that may impede third-party acquisition proposals that may be in your best interests. Medical Properties’ charter and bylaws also provide that our directors may only 18 Table of Contents be removed by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of Medical Properties common stock, that stockholders are required to give us advance notice of director nominations and new business to be conducted at our annual meetings of stockholders and that special meetings of stockholders can only be called by our president, our board of directors or the holders of at least 25% of stock entitled to vote at the meetings. These and other charter and bylaw provisions may delay or prevent a change of control or other transaction in which holders of Medical Properties common stock might receive a premium for their common stock over the then-current market price or which such holders otherwise might believe to be in their best interests. We depend on key personnel, the loss of any one of whom may threaten our ability to operate our business successfully. We depend on the services of Edward K. Aldag, Jr., R. Steven Hamner, Emmett E. McLean, Michael G. Stewart and William G. Mc Kenzie to carry out our business and investment strategy. If we were to lose any of these executive officers, it may be more difficult for us to locate attractive acquisition targets, complete our acquisitions and manage the facilities that we have acquired or developed. Additionally, as we expand, we will continue to need to attract and retain additional qualified officers and employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our UPREIT structure may result in conflicts of interest between Medical Properties’ stockholders and the holders of our operating partnership units. We are organized as an UPREIT, which means that we hold our assets and conduct substantially all of our operations through an operating limited partnership, and may issue operating partnership units to third parties. Persons holding operating partnership units would have the right to vote on certain amendments to the partnership agreement of our operating partnership, as well as on certain other matters. Persons holding these voting rights may exercise them in a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders. Circumstances may arise in the future, such as the sale or refinancing of one of our facilities, when the interests of limited partners in our operating partnership conflict with the interests of our stockholders. As the sole member of the general partner of the operating partnership, Medical Properties has fiduciary duties to the limited partners of the operating partnership that may conflict with fiduciary duties Medical Properties’ officers and directors owe to its stockholders. These conflicts may result in decisions that are not in your best interest. TAX RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR STATUS AS A REIT Loss of our tax status as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of Medical Properties common stock. We believe that we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the federal income tax laws commencing with our taxable year that began on April 6, 2004 and ended on December 31, 2004. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will be successful in operating so as to qualify as a REIT. At any time, new laws, regulations, interpretations or court decisions may change the federal tax laws relating to, or the federal income tax consequences of, qualification as a REIT. It is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our board of directors to revoke the REIT election, which it may do without stockholder approval. If we lose or revoke our REIT status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for distribution because: • we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; therefore we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates and we might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay any such tax; • we also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify. 19 Table of Contents As a result of all these factors, a failure to achieve or a loss or revocation of our REIT status could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax. In order to qualify as a REIT, each year we must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any year are less than the sum of (1) 85% of our ordinary income for that year; (2) 95% of our capital gain net income for that year; and (3) 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Differences in timing between the recognition of income and the related cash receipts or the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow money or sell assets to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. In the future, we may borrow to pay distributions to our stockholders and the limited partners of our operating partnership. Any funds that we borrow would subject us to interest rate and other market risks. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego attractive business or investment opportunities. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of our assets may consist of securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries, and no more than 25% of the value of our assets may consist of securities that are not qualifying assets under the test requiring that 75% of a REIT’s assets consist of real estate and other related assets. Further, a taxable REIT subsidiary may not directly or indirectly operate or manage a healthcare facility. For purposes of this definition a “healthcare facility” means a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility which extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients and which is operated by a service provider that is eligible for participation in the Medicare program under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act with respect to the facility. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may limit our flexibility in executing our business plan. Loans to our tenants could be recharacterized as equity, in which case our rental income from that tenant might not be qualifying income under the REIT rules and we could lose our REIT status. In connection with the acquisition of the Vibra Facilities, our taxable REIT subsidiary made a loan to Vibra in an aggregate amount of approximately $41.4 million to acquire the operations at the Vibra Facilities. As of March 1, 2008, that loan had been reduced to approximately $29.4 million. Our taxable REIT subsidiary also made a loan of approximately $6.2 million to Vibra and its subsidiaries for working capital purposes, which has been paid in full. The acquisition loan bears interest at an annual rate of 10.25%. Our operating partnership loaned the funds to our taxable REIT subsidiary to make these loans. The loan from our operating partnership to our taxable REIT subsidiary bears interest at an annual rate of 9.25%. Our taxable REIT subsidiary has made and will make loans to tenants to acquire operations or for other purposes. The Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, may take the position that certain loans to tenants should be treated as equity interests rather than debt, and that our rental income from such tenant should not be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. If the IRS were to successfully treat a loan to a particular tenant as equity interests, the tenant would be a “related party tenant” with respect to our company and the rent that we receive from the tenant would not be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. As a result, we could lose our REIT status. In addition, if the IRS were to successfully treat a particular loan as interests held by our operating partnership rather than by our taxable REIT subsidiary, we could fail the 5% asset test, and if the IRS further successfully treated the loan as other than straight debt, we could fail the 10% asset test with respect to such interest. As a result of the failure of either test, could lose our REIT status, which would subject us to corporate level income tax and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 20 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares at or above your purchase price. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or distributions; • changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates or publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry; • increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our shares of common stock to demand a higher yield; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • actions by institutional stockholders; • local conditions such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, rehabilitation hospitals, long-term acute care hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, medical office buildings, specialty hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, regional and community hospitals, women’s and children’s hospitals and other single-discipline facilities; • speculation in the press or investment community; and • general market and economic conditions. Future sales of common stock may have adverse effects on our stock price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of common stock, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market price for our common stock. We may issue from time to time additional common stock or units of our operating partnership in connection with the acquisition of facilities and we may grant additional demand or piggyback registration rights in connection with these issuances. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock or the perception that these sales could occur may adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through a sale of additional equity securities. An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our securities is our distribution rate as a percentage of our price per share of common stock, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may desire a higher distribution or interest rate on our securities or seek securities paying higher distributions or interest. The market price of our common stock likely will be based primarily on the earnings that we derive from rental income with respect to our facilities and our related distributions to stockholders, and not from the underlying appraised value of the facilities themselves. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions can affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on our variable-rate debt, thereby adversely affecting cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and make distributions. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 