ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Financial Risk Factors Our operating results may fluctuate significantly. The failure of our existing or new restaurants to achieve expected results could have a negative impact on our revenues and financial results, including potential impairment of long-lived assets. Our results could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to seasonality and other factors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. The results achieved by our restaurants may not be indicative of longer term performance or the potential market acceptance of restaurants in other locations. New restaurants we open may not have operating results similar to those of previously opened restaurants. The failure of restaurants to perform as predicted could result in an impairment charge, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly because of several factors, including: • Our ability to achieve and manage our planned expansion; • Our ability to achieve market acceptance, particularly in new markets; • Our ability to raise capital, or the availability of expansion capital generally; • Changes in the availability and costs of food; • The loss of key management personnel; • The concentration of our restaurants in specific geographic areas; • Our ability to protect our name and logo and other proprietary information; • Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary spending; • Fluctuations in the number of visitors or business travelers to our restaurants; • Health concerns about seafood or other foods; • Our ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees; • Increases in labor costs; • The impact of federal, state or local government regulations relating to our employees or the sale or preparation of food and the sale of alcoholic beverages; • The impact of litigation; • The effect of competition in the restaurant industry; • The effect of widespread adverse weather conditions; • Economic trends generally; • The ability of real estate developers, landlords and co-tenants, to meet commitments to fill space in developments where our restaurants are to be located, which would decrease guest traffic to our restaurants; and • Reduced corporate expenditures on meetings and/or conventions may impact our private dining business. 14 Table of Contents Our business also is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, sales in most of our restaurants have been higher during the second and fourth quarter of each year. As a result, our quarterly and annual operating results and restaurant sales may fluctuate significantly as a result of seasonality and the factors discussed above. Accordingly, results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year and comparable restaurant sales for any particular future period may decrease. Our operating results may be different than the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our common stock may fluctuate. Failure to establish, maintain and apply adequate internal control over our financial reporting could affect our reported results of operations. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, which is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. If we experience a material weakness in internal controls, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate that material weakness in a timely manner or maintain all of the controls necessary to remain in compliance which may impact our ability to detect and prevent fraud. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting could limit the ability to report our financial results accurately and timely which could affect our reported results of operations. The terms of our revolving credit facility impose financial restrictions that may be affected as we respond to changing business and economic conditions. On November 17, 2010, the existing revolving credit facility was amended. In conjunction with the amendment, the availably under the facility was reduced from $90.0 million to $40.0 million, with an additional $20.0 million available at our request if specified conditions are met. We and our subsidiaries have agreed to a negative pledge on assets, with certain customary exceptions, and the credit facility places certain restrictions on our activities, including financial covenants and restrictions on certain payments to related parties and on capital expenditures. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events outside of our control. A breach of any of these provisions or our inability to comply with required financial ratios could result in a default under the credit facility. If that were to occur, the lenders have the right to declare all borrowings to be immediately due and payable. Macro Economic Risk Factors The global economic crisis adversely impacted our business and financial results during recent years. Challenging economic factors such as a decline in business travelers, changes in consumer preferences spending, labor shortages or increases in labor costs and increases in food costs could adversely affect our business. The restaurant industry is being adversely affected by economic factors, including changes in national, regional, and local economic conditions, employment levels and consumer spending patterns. The increased concerns about the economy and financial markets have reduced consumer confidence and decreased restaurant traffic, particularly at upscale restaurants, which is harmful to our business and results of operations. We depend on both local residents and business travelers to frequent our locations. If the number of visitors who frequent our locations declines due to economic or other conditions, changes in consumer preferences, changes in discretionary consumer spending or for other reasons, our revenues could decline significantly and our results of operations could be adversely affected. The restaurant industry is characterized by the introduction of new concepts and is subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences, tastes and purchasing habits. Our continued success depends in part upon the popularity of seafood and the style of dining we offer. Shifts in consumer preferences away from this cuisine or dining style could materially and adversely affect our operating results. 15 Table of Contents Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including regional operational managers and regional chefs, restaurant general managers and executive chefs, necessary to continue our operations and keep pace with our growth. If we are unable to recruit and retain sufficient qualified individuals, our business and our growth could be adversely affected. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages, which could result in higher labor costs. If our labor costs increase, our results of operations will be negatively affected. Our profitability depends significantly on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. We rely on local, regional and national suppliers to provide our seafood, produce, beef and other ingredients. Increases in distribution costs or sale prices or failure to perform by these suppliers could cause our food costs to increase. We could also experience significant short-term disruptions in our supply if a significant supplier failed to meet its obligations. Adverse weather conditions could unfavorably affect our restaurant sales. Many of our restaurants are located in regions that may be susceptible to severe weather conditions. Adverse weather conditions can impact guest traffic at our restaurants, cause the temporary underutilization of outdoor patio seating, and cause temporary closures, sometimes for prolonged periods. Many of our restaurants are concentrated in local or regional areas and, as a result, we are sensitive to economic and other trends and developments in these areas. As of December 29, 2010, we operated five restaurants in the Seattle, Washington area, six in the Portland, Oregon area, 14 in California, and seven in the greater Vancouver, British Columbia area; our East Coast restaurants are concentrated in and around Washington, D.C. and Baltimore. As a result, adverse economic conditions, weather and labor markets in any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. In addition, given our geographic concentrations, negative publicity or events outside of our control regarding any of our restaurants in these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Growth Risk Factors We may not be able to successfully integrate into our business the operations of restaurants that we acquire, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may seek to selectively acquire existing restaurants and integrate them into our business operations. Achieving the expected benefits of any restaurants that we acquire will depend in large part on our ability to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired restaurants and personnel in a timely and efficient manner. The risks involved in such restaurant acquisitions and integration include: • Challenges and costs associated with the acquisition and integration of restaurant operations located in markets where we have limited or no experience; • Possible disruption to our business as a result of the diversion of management’s attention from its normal operational responsibilities and duties; and • Consolidation of the corporate, information technology, accounting and administrative infrastructure and resources of the acquired restaurants into our business. We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations, or realize the anticipated benefits, of any restaurants that we acquire. If we cannot overcome the challenges and risks that we face in integrating the operations of newly acquired restaurants, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Our failure to drive sufficient profitable sales growth through brand relevance, operating excellence, opening new restaurants, successfully refining existing restaurants and developing or acquiring new restaurants could adversely affect our results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we intend to drive profitable sales growth by increasing same-restaurant sales at existing restaurants, continuing to expand our current portfolio of restaurant brands, and developing or acquiring additional brands that can be expanded profitably. This strategy involves numerous risks, and we may not be able to achieve our growth objectives. We may not be able to maintain brand relevance and restaurant operating excellence at existing brands to achieve sustainable same-restaurant sales growth and warrant new unit growth. In addition, we may not be able to open all of our planned new restaurants, and the new restaurants that we open may not be profitable or as profitable as our existing restaurants. New restaurants typically experience an adjustment period before sales levels and operating margins normalize, and even sales at successful newly-opened restaurants generally do not make a significant contribution to profitability in their initial months of operation. The opening of new restaurants can also have an adverse effect on sales levels at existing restaurants. Furthermore, we may not be able to develop or acquire additional brands that are as profitable as our existing restaurants. Our business may suffer if we do not successfully, timely and economically implement our reinvestment initiatives. In early 2011 we announced a significant initiative to align our facilities, our product offerings and our management expertise more closely with our goal of creating an exceptional upscale casual dining experience. This program includes a number of components focusing on more extensive training for our restaurant management and staff employees, targeted marketing designed to broaden our connection with younger customers and enhance our brand recognition across a broader range of diners, and significant reinvestment in our facilities. If we fail to implement this program effectively, we may be unable to strengthen our customer base (which would represent a failure to reap the intended results of our investments) or we may alienate a significant portion of our existing customer base (which would harm our revenues). Moreover, we have budgeted significant capital expenditures toward enhancing our restaurant portfolio, including up to $15 million in 2011. A significant majority of those investments are targeting upgrades to individual properties based upon a variety of factors, with a goal of enhancing the dining experience, growing our customer base and traffic counts, and improving per-site revenues. Some of these projects will require the temporary closure of individual restaurants, which will eliminate revenues for the affected sites for a period of time. If one or more site closures are longer than expected, our revenues for such sites are likely to fall short of our expectations for those sites. In addition, the cost of these capital upgrade projects may exceed our expectations due to the age of our facilities and the need to comply with changes in building codes since our facilities were first built. Any of these potential outcomes, alone or in combination, may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Operational Risk Factors We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy or interruption could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. We rely on information systems across our operations, including for management of our supply chain, point-of-sale processing system in our restaurants, and various other processes and transactions. Our ability to effectively manage our business and coordinate the production, distribution and sale of our products depends on the reliability and capacity of these systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in customer service and reduce efficiency in our operations, and significant capital investments could be required to remediate the problem. 17 Table of Contents A failure to develop and recruit effective leaders or the loss of key personnel could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. Our future growth depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of key executives and other employees. Our future growth also depends substantially on our ability to recruit and retain high-quality employees to work in and manage our restaurants. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees in order to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. A failure to maintain leadership excellence and build adequate bench strength, a loss of key employees or a significant shortage of high-quality restaurant employees could jeopardize our ability to meet our growth targets. We occupy most of our restaurants under long-term non-cancelable leases which may limit our flexibility as economic conditions change. Most of our restaurants are located in leased premises with long-term non-cancelable leases. If we close restaurants, we may be obligated to continue making rental payments or make a lump-sum payment to exit the lease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Alternatively, at the end of the lease term and any renewal period for a restaurant, we may be unable to renew the lease without substantial additional cost, if at all. If we are unable to renew our restaurant leases, we would have to close or relocate a restaurant, which could subject us to construction and other costs and risks, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Legal, Regulatory and Health Risk Factors Restaurant companies have been the target of class-actions and other lawsuits alleging, among other things, violation of federal and state law. Litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to a variety of claims arising in the ordinary course of our business brought by or on behalf of our guests or employees, including personal injury claims, contract claims, and employment-related claims. In recent years, a number of restaurant companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class-action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace, employment and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Similar lawsuits have been instituted against us from time to time. In 2007, we incurred a $2.2 million charge for a class action legal settlement relating to an employment claim. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are ultimately determined to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. A judgment significantly in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, and adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may materially adversely affect our business. We may incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our insurance policies may not provide adequate levels of coverage against all claims. We believe we maintain insurance coverage that is customary for businesses of our size and type. However, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not commercially reasonable to insure. These losses, if they occur, could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our primary insurer in 2004 has informed us it believes we have exhausted our insurance coverage with respect to employment claims arising in our 2004 coverage year and that several claims arising in 2005 through 2008 coverage years are related to the 2004 coverage year. We disagree with this interpretation of our coverage, but we have taken this interpretation into account in connection with the charge we have taken related to our settlement of class action claims in California. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” We may not succeed in our contest of our insurer’s conclusion. If we are unsuccessful, and if it is determined that other existing employment claims arose in 2004 and are therefore not covered, our resolution of those claims would be more expensive. 18 Table of Contents Health concerns relating to the consumption of seafood or other foods could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact our results of operations. We may lose customers based on health concerns about the consumption of seafood or negative publicity concerning food quality, illness and injury generally, such as negative publicity concerning the accumulation of mercury or other carcinogens in seafood, e-coli, “mad cow” or “foot-and-mouth” disease, publication of government or industry findings about food products served by us, regulatory required disclosure of calorie or nutritional information or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one of our restaurants. In addition, our operational controls and training may not be fully effective in preventing all food-borne illnesses. Some food-borne illness incidents could be caused by food suppliers and transporters and would be outside of our control. Any negative publicity, health concerns or specific outbreaks of food-borne illnesses attributed to one or more of our restaurants, or the perception of an outbreak, could result in a decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may incur costs or liabilities and lose revenue, and our growth strategy may be adversely impacted, as a result of government regulation. Our restaurants are subject to various federal, state and local government regulations, including those relating to employees, the preparation and sale of food and the sale of alcoholic beverages. These regulations affect our restaurant operations and our ability to open new restaurants. Each of our restaurants must obtain licenses from regulatory authorities to sell liquor, beer and wine, and each restaurant must obtain a food service license from local health authorities. Each liquor license must be renewed annually and may be revoked at any time for cause, including violation by us or our employees of any laws and regulations relating to the minimum drinking age, advertising, wholesale purchasing and inventory control. In certain jurisdictions where we operate the number of alcoholic beverage licenses available is limited and licenses are traded at market prices. The failure to maintain our food and liquor licenses and other required licenses, permits and approvals could adversely affect our operating results. Difficulties or failure in obtaining the required licenses and approvals could delay or result in our decision to cancel the opening of new restaurants. We are subject to “dram shop” statutes in some states. These statutes generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. A judgment substantially in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our operating results and financial condition. Various federal and state labor laws govern our relationship with our employees and affect operating costs. These laws include minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation rates, and citizenship requirements. Additional government-imposed increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence and mandated health benefits, increased tax reporting and tax payment requirements for employees who receive gratuities, or a reduction in the number of states that allow tips to be credited toward minimum wage requirements would increase our labor costs and could harm our operating results and financial condition. We may be unable to increase our prices in order to pass these increased labor costs on to our guests, in which case our margins would be negatively affected. Because our labor costs are, as a percentage of revenues, higher than other industries, we may be significantly harmed by labor cost increases. The Federal Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. Although our restaurants are designed to be accessible to the disabled, we could be required to make modifications to our restaurants to provide service to, or make reasonable accommodations for, disabled persons. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 