Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating our business, every investor should carefully consider the following risks. Our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks. RISKS RELATING TO THE REORGANIZATION CASES The Reorganization Cases May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. On March 24, 2013, the Company and each of its direct and indirect subsidiaries filed the Reorganization Cases under the Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court in order to effectuate the Plan. There can be no assurance as to the timing for approval of the Plan or that the Plan will be confirmed. Even if the Plan is confirmed on a timely basis, the Reorganization Cases could have an adverse effect on our business. Among other things, due to uncertainty as a result of the Reorganization Cases: ● customers could seek alternative sources of services from our competitors; ● employees could be distracted from performance of their duties or more easily attracted to other career opportunities; and ● vendors, suppliers, agents and other business partners could terminate their relationship with us or require financial assurances or enhanced performance. A lengthy bankruptcy proceeding would also involve additional expenses and divert the attention of management from operating our business, as well as creating concerns for employees, suppliers and customers. In addition, for the duration of the Reorganization Cases, transactions outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to timely respond to certain events or take advantage of certain business opportunities. The extent to which the Reorganization Cases disrupt our business will likely be directly related to the length of time it takes to complete the Reorganization Cases. If we are unable to obtain confirmation of the Plan on a timely basis because of a challenge to confirmation of the Plan, a failure to meet the confirmation requirements or a failure to satisfy the conditions to consummation of the Plan, we may be forced to operate in bankruptcy for an extended period while we try to develop a different reorganization plan that can be confirmed. That would increase both the probability and the magnitude of the potentially adverse effects described in this risk factor. The Bankruptcy Court May Not Confirm the Plan, or Any Other Plan of Reorganization. The statutory requirements for confirming the Plan are set forth in section 1129 of the Bankruptcy Code. Although some of these requirements can be objectively measured, the Bankruptcy Court, as a court of equity, may exercise substantial discretion in determining whether other requirements are met. Section 1129 of the Bankruptcy Code requires, among other things, a showing that confirmation of the Plan will not be followed by our liquidation or the need for further financial reorganization, and that the value of distributions to holders of claims and interests that dissent from the Plan may not be less than the value those holders would receive if we were liquidated under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. There can be no assurance that the Bankruptcy Court will determine that the Plan meets this or other statutory requirements for confirmation. 10 The Plan also constitutes a settlement, which is subject to Bankruptcy Court approval in the form of a confirmation order. There can be no assurance that the Bankruptcy Court will approve the settlement contemplated in the Plan. There can also be no assurance that modifications to the Plan would not be required for confirmation of the Plan, or that such modifications would not require a solicitation of votes on the Plan, thus causing a further delay in consideration of the Plan by the Bankruptcy Court. Moreover, the Bankruptcy Court could determine that the disclosures made in the disclosure statement that was used in connection with the pre-filing solicitation for acceptances of the Plan, which we refer to as the Solicitation, were inadequate. We would then have to commence the solicitation process again, which would include re-filing a disclosure statement and plan of reorganization and reconsideration of the disclosure statement by the Bankruptcy Court prior to solicitation on the plan of reorganization. Typically, this process involves a 90-day or longer period and includes a court hearing for the required approval of a disclosure statement, followed (after Bankruptcy Court approval) by another solicitation of votes for the plan of reorganization, followed by a confirmation hearing where the Bankruptcy Court determines whether the requirements for confirmation have been satisfied. If no plan of reorganization can be confirmed, the Reorganization Cases may be converted to cases under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, pursuant to which a trustee would be appointed to liquidate our assets for distribution in accordance with the priorities established by the Bankruptcy Code. We believe that liquidation under chapter 7 would result in smaller distributions being made to our creditors than those provided for in the Plan because of (i) the likelihood that our assets would have to be sold or otherwise disposed of over a short period of time, (ii) additional administrative expenses involved in the appointment of a trustee and (iii) additional expenses and claims, some of which would be entitled to priority, which would be generated during the liquidation and from the rejection of leases and other executory contracts in connection with a cessation of our operations. Other Parties in Interest May Propose Alternative Plans of Reorganization That May Be Less Favorable than the Plan to Certain Constituencies. Under the Bankruptcy Code, we have the exclusive right to propose and to solicit acceptances of a plan of reorganization for the first 120 days and 180 days, respectively, after the filing of the Reorganization Cases. However, that exclusivity period may be reduced or terminated upon the order of the Bankruptcy Court. Although the Bankruptcy Court can further extend the exclusivity period, the period for filing and for soliciting acceptances of a plan of reorganization cannot be extended beyond 18 months and 20 months, respectively. Were an order to be entered by the Bankruptcy Court to shorten the exclusivity period, or if the Bankruptcy Court failed to extend the exclusivity period as needed or that period expired, other parties in interest would then have the opportunity to propose alternative plans of reorganization. If other parties in interest were to propose an alternative plan of reorganization following expiration or termination of our exclusivity period, such a plan may be less favorable than the Plan to, among others, the lenders under our senior credit facility and the holders of our senior subordinated notes. Alternative plans of reorganization also may treat the claims of a number of other constituencies, including our employees, agents, vendors and customers, less favorably than the Plan. We consider maintaining relationships with our employees, agents, customers and vendors as critical to maintaining the value of our business as we restructure. However, proponents of alternative plans of reorganization may not share our assessment and may seek to impair the claims of those constituencies. In addition, if there are competing plans of reorganization, the Reorganization Cases are likely to become longer, more complicated and more expensive. 11 If the Lenders Under Our Senior Credit Facility Withdraw Their Support of the Plan, it Could Cause a Material Delay in the Reorganization Cases and May Adversely Impact Our Business and Our Ability to Reorganize. On January 31, 2013, we entered into a Restructuring Support Agreement, which we refer to as the Plan Support Agreement, with the lenders under our senior credit facility. Although, pursuant to the Plan Support Agreement, the lenders under our senior credit facility have agreed to support and vote in favor of the Plan, that support may be terminated and those votes revoked upon the occurrence of certain termination events under the Plan Support Agreement. The termination events include, among other things, our failure to reach certain milestones in the Reorganization Cases in a timely manner, such as orders from the Bankruptcy Court approving the Plan and the occurrence of the effectiveness of the Plan in accordance with the timeline set forth in the Plan Support Agreement. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet the milestones set forth in the Plan Support Agreement. Additional events that constitute termination events under the Plan Support Agreement include the conversion of the Reorganization Cases to cases under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, our material breach of our obligations under the Plan Support Agreement or a final determination by a court or governmental agency of competent jurisdiction that the transactions contemplated by the Plan cannot legally go forward. If a termination event under the Plan Support Agreement occurs and the lenders under our senior credit facility withdraw their support of the Plan, and the votes of such lenders are revoked, we may need to amend the Plan and resolicit votes thereon, or formulate a new chapter 11 plan and solicit votes on that new plan. Any such amendment and/or resolicitation could cause a material delay in the Reorganization Cases and may adversely impact our business and our ability to reorganize. If the Plan is Changed to Require Approval by a State Regulatory Body, the State Regulatory Body May Require Changes to the Plan that Could Cause a Material Delay in the Reorganization Cases. We hold telecommunications licenses issued by the FCC and state regulatory bodies. Corporate transactions by telecommunications companies that represent a change of control over licenses are subject to approval by the FCC and state regulatory bodies. We currently anticipate that obtaining regulatory approval of the Plan from the FCC could take up to approximately 95 days from the date that the Reorganization Cases were filed in the Bankruptcy Court. However, we do not believe that the changes in our equity ownership, management or direction that will occur pursuant to the Plan or the restructuring transaction contemplated by the Plan will constitute a change of control that will require obtaining regulatory approval from any state regulatory bodies. Should circumstances or court orders change the Plan or the restructuring transaction contemplated by the Plan in a way that will require any approval by a state regulatory body, we intend to commence the regulatory approval process as promptly as practicable to obtain the requisite approvals in a timely manner. If such filings are made, the state regulatory agencies may require modifications, additions or amendments to the Plan or the restructuring transaction contemplated by the Plan, which could cause delays or potential denial of approvals for the restructuring transaction contemplated by the Plan. Even if We Consummate a Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization, We Will Continue to Face Risks. Even if we consummate a chapter 11 plan of reorganization, we will continue to face risks, including certain risks that are beyond our control, that could affect our operations and business, such as adverse changes in the conditions in the specific markets for our services, the conditions in the broader market for telecommunications services and the conditions in the domestic and global economies generally. As a result of these risks, there is no guarantee that a chapter 11 plan of reorganization will achieve our stated goals. In addition, even if our debts are reduced or discharged through a plan of reorganization, we may need to raise additional funds through the revolving loan portion of our senior credit facility, public or private debt or equity financings or other means to fund our business after the completion of the proceedings related to the Reorganization Cases, which additional funds may not be available when needed or may not be available to us on favorable terms. Our Financial Information Following the Effectiveness of the Plan May Not Be Comparable to Our Historical Financial Information. If a chapter 11 plan of reorganization reflecting the Plan is consummated, our financial condition and results of operations from and after the effectiveness of the Plan may not be comparable to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements, which, among other things, could limit trading in our new Class A common stock that we currently expect to issue to the holders of our senior subordinated notes upon the effectiveness of the Plan. 12 RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS We Received a “Going Concern” Explanatory Paragraph in the Audit Report from Our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2012, Which Raises Substantial Doubt as to Our Ability to Continue to Operate as a Going Concern. We received a “going concern” explanatory paragraph in the audit report from our independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012. That explanatory paragraph raises substantial doubt as to our ability to continue to operate as a going concern. If we are not able to continue as a going concern, we may cease to operate and our investors may lose some or all of their investment. The Telecommunications Industry Has Experienced Increased Competition. Although we have historically experienced limited wireline telephone competition in many of our RLEC territories, the market for telecommunications services is highly competitive. Certain competitors benefit from brand recognition and financial, personnel, marketing and other resources that are significantly greater than ours. We cannot predict the number of competitors that will emerge, especially as a result of existing or new federal and state regulatory or legislative actions. Increased competition from existing and new entities could have an adverse effect on our business, revenue and cash flow. In all of our markets, we face competition from wireless carriers, including the potential for customers to export existing wireline telephone numbers to wireless services. As wireless carriers continue to build-out their networks and add products and services aimed at the fixed wireless market, we may experience increased competition, which could have an adverse effect on our business, revenue and cash flow. The current and potential competitors in our RLEC territories include cable television companies; CLECs and other providers of telecommunications and data services, including internet and VoIP service providers; wireless carriers; satellite television companies; alternate access providers; neighboring incumbent local exchange carriers; long distance companies and electric utilities that may provide services competitive with those services that we provide or intend to provide. In Maine, New Hampshire and Massachusetts, our CLEC operations may encounter a change in the competitive landscape that would impact its continued ability to grow and/or retain customers, sustain current pricing plans and control the cost of access to incumbent carrier customers. Although our long distance operations have historically been modest in relation to our competitors, we have expanded our long distance business within our territories, primarily through bundling long distance with other local services and providing a single bill for these services. Our existing long distance competitors, including those with significantly greater resources than us and carriers offering VoIP services, could respond with attractive new offerings. There can be no assurance that our local services revenue, including long distance services, will not decrease in the future as competition and/or the cost of providing services increases. Changes in the Regulation of the Telecommunications Industry Could Adversely Affect Our Business, Revenue or Cash Flow. We operate in an industry that is regulated at the federal, state and local level. The majority of our revenue has historically been supported by and subject to regulation. Certain federal and state regulations and local franchise requirements have been, are currently, and may in the future be, the subject of judicial proceedings, legislative hearings and administrative proposals. Such proceedings may relate to, among other things, federal and state universal service funds (including USF HCL), the rates we may charge for our local, network access and other services, the manner in which we offer and bundle our services, the terms and conditions of interconnection, unbundled network elements and resale rates, and could change the manner in which telecommunications companies operate. The FCC Order began significantly reducing access revenue received by us in July 2012 and, unless revised, will significantly reduce USF HCL revenue over a five to ten year period. In addition, the FCC Order imposes certain costs and rate increases on carriers that we may not be able to pass on to our customers without experiencing further access line loss. 13 We Are, and Expect to Continue to Be, Subject to Restrictive Debt Covenants That Limit Our Business Flexibility By Imposing Operating and Financial Restrictions on Our Operations. Our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes contain certain covenants, and, following the effectiveness of the Plan, assuming that it is consummated in accordance with its terms, our senior credit facility is expected to contain certain covenants that will, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe those actions to be in our best interest, including, without limitation, restrictions on our ability to: ● incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock and certain redeemable capital stock; ● make certain types of restricted payments, including investments and acquisitions; ● pay dividends on our common stock; ● sell certain assets; ● enter into specified transactions with affiliates; ● create a number of liens; ● consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and ● change the nature of our business. Any of our future indebtedness may impose similar or other restrictive covenants. In addition, upon the effectiveness of the Plan, assuming that it is consummated in accordance with its terms, we expect that our senior credit facility and our certificate of incorporation will each contain a covenant generally requiring us to sell all of our equity interests or substantially all of our assets within 180 days after the occurrence of certain triggering events. We Are Currently in Default Under Our Senior Credit Facility and the Indenture Governing Our Senior Subordinated Notes. The filing of the Reorganization Cases constituted an event of default and triggered the automatic and immediate acceleration of debt outstanding under the terms of our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes. We believe that any efforts to enforce our payment obligations under our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes are currently stayed under the Bankruptcy Code as a result of the filing of the Reorganization Cases in the Bankruptcy Court. We May Not Be Able to Integrate New Technologies and Provide New Services in a Cost-Efficient Manner. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, frequent new service introductions and evolving industry standards. We cannot predict the effect of these changes on our competitive position, our capital expenditure requirements, our profitability or the industry generally. Technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of our networks and require additional capital expenditures or the procurement of additional products that could be expensive and time consuming to install and integrate into our network. In addition, new products and services arising out of technological developments may reduce the attractiveness of our services. If we fail to adapt successfully to technological advances or fail to obtain access to new technologies, we could lose customers and be limited in our ability to attract new customers and/or sell new services to our existing customers. In addition, delivery of new services in a cost-efficient manner depends upon many factors, and we may not generate the revenue anticipated from such services. 14 Disruptions in Our Networks and Infrastructure May Cause Us to Lose Customers and Incur Additional Expenses. To be successful, we will need to continue to provide our customers with reliable and timely service over our networks. We face the following risks to our networks and infrastructure: ● our territories could have significant weather events which physically damage access lines and network infrastructure; ● our rural geography creates the risk of security breaches, break-ins and sabotage; ● power surges and outages, computer viruses or hacking and software or hardware defects that are beyond our control; and ● unusual spikes in demand or capacity limitations in our or our suppliers’ networks. Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and/or incur expenses, and thereby adversely affect our business, revenue and cash flow. In addition, the APSC, MPUC, MDTC, MPSC, NHPUC, VPSB and/or WVPSC could require us to issue credits on customer bills for such service interruptions, further impacting revenue and cash flow. Our Operating Activities Are Subject to Risks Caused by Misappropriation, Misuse, Leakage, Falsification and Accidental Release or Loss of Information Maintained in Our Information Technology Systems. Our operating activities are subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental release or loss of information maintained in our information technology systems, including customer, personnel and vendor data. We could be exposed to significant costs if such risks were to materialize, and such events could damage the reputation and credibility of us and our business and have a negative impact on our revenues. We could also be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach. Our Business is Geographically Concentrated and Dependent on Regional Economic Conditions. Our business is conducted primarily in north central Alabama, Maine, New Hampshire, western Massachusetts, central Missouri, western Vermont and southern West Virginia and, accordingly, our business is dependent upon the general economic conditions of these regions. There can be no assurance that future economic conditions in these regions, including as a result of the current global economic downturn, will not impact demand for our services or cause residents to relocate to other regions, which may adversely impact our business, revenue and cash flow. Our Success Depends on a Small Number of Key Personnel. Our success depends on the personal efforts of a small group of skilled employees and senior management. The rural nature of much of our service area provides for a smaller pool of skilled telephone employees and increases the challenge of hiring employees. The challenge of hiring and retaining employees could be further increased by the Reorganization Cases. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. 15 We Provide Services to Our Customers Over Access Lines, and if We Lose Access Lines, Our Business and Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected. Our business generates revenue by delivering voice and data services over access lines. We have experienced net voice access line loss in our RLEC territories due to challenging economic conditions, wireless substitution, loss of second lines and increased competition. RLEC voice access lines declined by approximately 6.9% during 2012. We expect to continue to experience net voice access line loss in our rural markets. When voice access line losses are not substantially offset by data access line gains, it adversely affects our business and results of operations. Our Performance Is Subject to a Number of Other Economic and Non-Economic Factors, Which We May Not Be Able to Predict Accurately. There are factors that may be beyond our control that could affect our operations and business. Such factors include adverse changes in the conditions in the specific markets for our services, the conditions in the broader market for telecommunications services and the conditions in the domestic and global economies, generally. Although our performance is affected by the general condition of the economy, not all of our services are affected equally. Voice access revenue is generally linked to relatively consistent variables such as population changes, housing starts and general economic activity levels in the areas served. Data access and cable television revenue is generally related to more variable factors, such as changing levels of discretionary spending on entertainment and the adoption of e-commerce and other on-line activities by our current or prospective customers. It is not possible for management to accurately predict all of these factors and the impact of such factors on our performance. Changes in the competitive, technological and regulatory environments may also impact our ability to increase revenue and/or earnings from the provision of local wireline services. We may therefore have to place increased emphasis on developing and realizing revenue through the provision of new and enhanced services with higher growth potential. In such a case, there is a risk that these revenue sources, as well as our cost savings efforts through further efficiency gains, will not grow or develop at a fast enough pace to offset slowing growth in local services. It is also possible that, as we invest in new technologies and services, demand for those new services may not develop. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully expand our service offerings through the development of new services, and our efforts to do so may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Governmental Authorities Could Decrease Network Access Charges or Rates for Local Services, Which Would Adversely Affect Our Revenue. Approximately 10.1% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012 was derived from interstate network access charges paid by long distance carriers for use of our facilities to originate and terminate interstate and intrastate telephone calls. The interstate network access rates that we can charge are regulated by the FCC, and the intrastate network access rates that we can charge are regulated by the regulatory commissions in each state in which we operate. Those rates may change from time to time. The FCC continues to reform the federal network access charge system with the stated intent to promote deployment of broadband data services. In October 2011, the FCC released the FCC Order, which has and will significantly change the way telecommunication carriers receive compensation for exchanging traffic. On July 1, 2013, all terminating intrastate rates that exceed the interstate rate will be reduced to the interstate rate. Beginning in 2014, the interstate rate will be reduced over six years to “bill and keep,” in which carriers bill their customers for services and keep those charges, but neither pay for nor receive compensation from traffic sent to or received from other carriers. These changes began to reduce our access revenue in July 2012. It is unknown at this time what additional changes, if any, the FCC or state regulatory commissions may adopt. Such regulatory developments could adversely affect our business, revenue and cash flow. The local services rates and intrastate access fees charged by our RLECs are regulated by state regulatory commissions which have the power to grant and revoke authorization to companies to provide telecommunications services and to impose other conditions and penalties. If we fail to comply with regulations set forth by the state regulatory commissions, we may face revocation of our authorizations in a state or other conditions and penalties. It is possible that new plans would require us to reduce our rates, forego future rate increases, provide greater features as part of our basic service plan or limit our rates for certain offerings. We cannot predict the ultimate impact, if any, of such changes on our business, revenue and cash flow. 16 Certain of our RLECs charge rates for local services and intrastate access service based in part upon a rate-of-return authorized by the state regulatory commissions. These authorized rates are subject to audit at any time and may be reduced if the state regulatory commission finds them excessive. If any of our RLECs is ordered to reduce its rates or if its applications to increase rates are denied or delayed, our business, revenue and cash flow may be negatively impacted. NECA may file revisions to its average schedule formula each year, which revisions are subject to FCC approval. Six of our subsidiaries participate in average schedule rates. The FCC Order contains provisions which extend limits on corporate operations expense to the Interstate Common Line Support portions of the USF, which will reduce the level of funding some of our operating subsidiaries receive by approximately $0.1 million. A Reduction in Universal Service Fund High Cost Loop Support Would Adversely Affect Our Business, Revenue and Cash Flow. Four of our RLECs receive federal USF HCL revenue to support their high cost of operations. Such support payments represented approximately 3.5% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012 and were based upon each participating RLEC’s average cost per loop as compared to the national average cost per loop. These support payments fluctuate based upon the historical costs of our participating RLECs as compared to the national average cost per loop. Each year, the average cost per loop has increased, putting pressure on the USF HCL funds received by our participating RLECs to the extent that our participating RLECs’ costs do not increase at the same rate. If our participating RLECs are unable to receive support from the USF HCL, or if such support is reduced, our business, revenue and cash flow would be negatively affected. On October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted the FCC Order reforming the current high-cost universal support rules. The FCC Order places limits on certain operating expenses that can be recovered from the Universal Service Fund, which we refer to as USF, and places additional service requirements to be eligible to receive USF HCL support. The FCC has yet to issue orders addressing all aspects of the high-cost universal support which could affect the amount of USF HCL support we receive. We cannot predict the total impact these orders could have on USF HCL support. The outcome of any future FCC proceedings and other regulatory or legislative changes could affect the amount of USF HCL support that we receive, and could have an adverse effect on our business, revenue and cash flow. If a wireless or other telecommunications carrier receives ETC status in our service areas or even outside of our service areas, the amount of support we receive from the USF HCL could decline under current rules, and under some proposed USF HCL rule changes, could be significantly reduced. USAC serves as the administrative agent to collect data and distribute funds for USF. In 2006, it began conducting High Cost Beneficiary audits, designed to ensure compliance with FCC rules and program requirements and to assist in program compliance. Carriers were chosen from a random sample of each type of ETC, including average schedule and cost companies, incumbents and competitors and rural and non-rural, from various states. Audits were designed to ensure proper designation of a carrier as ETC, accuracy of data submissions, documentation of accounting procedures, physical inventory of assets, true-up of projected data and samples of detailed documentation (for example, invoices, continuing property records). In March 2012, USAC conducted payment quality audits of Brindlee and Mid-Missouri. Both audits have been completed and no material action is pending. If We Were to Lose Our Protected Status Under Interconnection Rules, We Would Incur Additional Administrative and Regulatory Expenses and Face More Competition. As a “rural telephone company” under the Communications Act, each of our RLECs is exempt from the obligation to lease its unbundled facilities to CLECs, to offer retail services at wholesale prices for resale, to permit competitive co-location at its facilities and to comply with certain other requirements applicable to larger incumbent local exchange carriers. However, we eventually may be required to comply with these requirements in some or all of our service areas if: (i) we receive a bona fide request from a telecommunications carrier; and (ii) the state regulatory commissions, as applicable, determine that it is in the public interest to impose such requirements. In addition, we may be required to comply with some or all of these requirements in order to achieve greater pricing flexibility from state regulators. If we are required to comply with these requirements, we could incur additional administrative and regulatory expenses and face more competition which could adversely affect our business, revenue and cash flow. 17 If Our IDSs Are Delisted from NASDAQ or the TSX, It Will Likely Be More Difficult for Holders of IDSs to Sell Their IDSs and May Negatively Impact the Trading Price of Our IDSs. On March 26, 2013, we received a deficiency letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, which we refer to as NASDAQ, notifying us that the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Staff, which we refer to as the Staff, has determined that our IDSs will be delisted from NASDAQ. The Staff reached its determination following our announcement that we had filed the Reorganization Cases in the Bankruptcy Court. We plan to appeal the Staff’s determination to delist our IDSs and request an oral hearing with respect to the appeal. If our appeal is not successful and our IDSs are thereafter delisted by NASDAQ, our IDSs may trade on the OTC Bulletin Board, which we refer to as the OTCBB, or the OTC Pink Marketplace, which we refer to as the Pink Sheets, but only if at least one market maker decides to quote our IDSs. If our IDSs are delisted by NASDAQ, there can be no assurance that any market maker will decide to quote our IDSs immediately following such delisting or at all, and thus there can be no assurance that our IDSs would be eligible to trade on the OTCBB or the Pink Sheets. Even if our IDSs would be eligible to trade on the OTCBB or the Pink Sheets, the trading of our IDSs on the OTCBB or the Pink Sheets may negatively impact the trading price of our IDSs and the levels of liquidity available to IDS holders. Our IDS are also listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, which we refer to as the TSX. Should the TSX also decide to delist, or halt or suspend trading of, our IDSs as a result of the Reorganization Cases or otherwise, it would likely be more difficult for IDS holders to sell their IDSs and may negatively impact trading prices and liquidity levels to IDS holders. In the event of any such delisting, halt or suspension, there can be no assurance that the IDSs will be listed or be eligible for trading on any other public market in Canada. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 