Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” “Business” and elsewhere in this report. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this annual report. We do not intend to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. These cautionary statements qualify all forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf. Current Economic Conditions The recent worldwide financial and credit crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of many business operations. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with recent substantial losses in equity markets has led to a worldwide economic recession. The slowdown in economic activity caused by such recession has reduced worldwide demand for energy resulting in lower oil and natural gas prices. Oil prices declined from record levels in early July 2008 of over $140 per barrel to below $40 per barrel in December 2008, while natural gas prices have declined from over $13 per Mcf to below $6 per Mcf over the same period. Lower oil and natural gas prices not only decrease our revenues but also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically over the life of the wells, and therefore lower our oil and natural gas reserves recorded in accordance with guidelines established by the SEC. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. Our current working capital and commodity prices received from production are insufficient to fund our 2009 budget, and as a result we may be required to reduce capital spending, issue equity or debt, sell a portion of our properties, or enter into joint ventures. Securities Act Disclaimer This Form 10-K does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business activities and the value of our securities are subject to significant hazards and risks, including those described below. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as other information provided to you in this document, including information in the section of this document entitled “Information Regarding Forward Looking Statements.” The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the value of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks relating to our securities may be included in the prospectuses for securities we issue in the future. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred significant losses and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. In the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we incurred net losses after taxation of approximately $19.7 million and $6.6 million, respectively. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully achieve an increase in production and reserves so as to operate in a profitable manner. If the business of oil and natural gas well exploration and development slows, and commodity prices notably decline, our margins and profitability will suffer. We are unable to predict whether our operating results will be profitable. Our operations have consumed a substantial amount of cash since inception. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to: 17 · identify and exploit oil and natural gas opportunities; · maintain and increase the company’s human resource including full time and consultant resources; · evaluate drilling opportunities; · identify acquisition candidates; and · evaluate future projects and areas for long term development. We expect to have increased cash requirements to fund our operations and growth. We expect that our cash requirement for operations will increase significantly over the next several years. We will be required to raise additional capital to meet anticipated needs. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: · success of ongoing operations; · forward commodity prices; and · operating costs (including human resource costs). The growth of our business will require substantial capital on a continuing basis. We use debt to fund a portion of our acquisition activities and we will likely use debt to fund a portion of our future acquisition activities. To date, our sources of cash for operations have also been primarily limited to the issuance of debt and the sale of equity securities. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities or securities that are convertible or exchangeable for shares of our common stock, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. Any debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that impact our ability to conduct our business. If we are unable to raise additional capital, when required, or on acceptable terms, our growth will be limited and we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue our operations, or cause our business to fail in its entirety. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our debt. As of December 31, 2008, our total secured debt was approximately $41.3 million. We also have various commitments for operating leases, drilling contracts and transportation and purchase obligations for services and products. Our level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt agreements, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the indenture with Longview Marquis Master Fund, governing our senior notes and the agreements governing our other indebtedness; we may have difficulty borrowing money in the future for acquisitions, capital expenditures or to meet our operating expenses or other general corporate obligations; the amount of our interest expense may increase because certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; we will need to use a substantial portion of our cash flows to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money we have for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other business activities; we may have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage; we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our industry or the economy in general, especially declines in oil and natural gas prices; and our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We will be unable to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulation. We cannot be certain that our earnings will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. For instance, approximately $7.0 million of our debt matures and becomes payable on September 2009 and approximately $34.3 million of our notes outstanding under our credit facility mature and becomes payable on December 2009. We believe that based on our current production levels and prices for oil and natural gas, our cash flows from operations, may not be sufficient to fully repay the debt when due without further reductions in our capital expenditure levels or non-strategic asset sales. If we do not have enough money to service our debt, we may be required but unable to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Further, failing to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our credit agreements and the Indenture governing our senior notes could result in an event of default, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 We may incur substantially more debt, which may intensify the risks described herein, including our ability to service our indebtedness. Together with our subsidiaries, we may incur substantially more debt in the future in connection with our acquisition, development, exploitation and exploration of oil and natural gas producing properties. The restrictions in our debt agreements on our incurrence of additional indebtedness are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Also, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. To the extent new indebtedness is added to our current indebtedness levels, the risks described above could substantially increase. Restrictive debt covenants could limit our growth and our ability to finance our operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $41.3 million of total secured debt outstanding under our credit facility and senior secured notes. Our credit facility and senior secured notes generally contain customary covenants, including, among others, provisions relating to the maintenance of the oil and natural gas properties securing the debt; and restricting our ability to assign or further encumber the properties securing the debt. In addition, our credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial and production covenants. As of the date of this report, we were in compliance with all such covenants. If we were to breach any of our debt covenants and not cure the breach within any applicable cure period, the lender could require us to repay the debt immediately, if that should occur, we may be unable to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. To the extent such debt is secured, upon default the lender could immediately begin proceedings to take possession of the properties securing the credit facility. Any such property loss would materially and adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. The global financial and credit crisis and any associated prolonged decline in the price of oil and natural gas will likely limit our access to liquidity and credit and curtail our ability to fund our planned exploration, developments, and production activity, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The global financial and credit crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. Significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the repricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions have made it difficult, and will likely continue to make financing difficult. As a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates and enacted tighter lending standards. As a result of the current credit environment, we may be unable to obtain additional funding under our existing credit agreements. In addition, the current disruption in the financial markets has reduced the likelihood that we could successfully issue common stock or other equity-related securities to fund our operations and growth. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with recent substantial losses in worldwide equity markets has lead to an extended national or global economic recession. A slowdown in economic activity caused by a recession would likely reduce national and worldwide demand for energy and result in lower oil and natural gas prices. Our revenues, cash flow and profitability and our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, to repay current or future indebtedness and to obtain additional capital on attractive terms depend substantially upon oil and natural gas prices. Prolonged decline in the price of oil and natural gas will likely limit our access to liquidity and credit and curtail our ability to fund our planned exploration, development, and production activity, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile and low prices could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our revenues, profitability and future growth and the carrying value of our properties depend substantially on prevailing oil and natural gas prices. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount we will be able to borrow under any senior revolving credit facility will be subject to periodic redetermination based in part on changing expectations of future prices. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can economically produce and have an adverse effect on the value of our properties. Prices for oil and natural gas have increased significantly and have been more volatile over the past twelve months. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Among the factors that can cause volatility are: 19 · the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; · the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, and other producing countries to agree upon and maintain oil prices and production levels; · political instability, armed conflict or terrorist attacks, whether or not in oil or natural gas producing regions; · the selling price and production costs of gasoline; · the level of consumer product demand; · the growth of consumer product demand in emerging markets, such as China; · labor unrest in oil and natural gas producing regions; · weather conditions, including hurricanes and other natural disasters; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · the price of foreign imports; · worldwide economic conditions; and · the availability of liquid natural gas imports. These external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to estimate future prices of oil and natural gas and our ability to raise capital. Oil and natural gas development, re-completion of wells from one reservoir to another reservoir, restoring wells to production and drilling and completing new wells are speculative activities and involve numerous risks and substantial and uncertain costs. Our growth will be materially dependent upon the success of our future development program. Drilling for oil and natural gas and re-working existing wells involve numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including: · unexpected drilling conditions; · pressure fluctuations or irregularities in formations; · equipment failures or accidents; · inability to obtain leases on economic terms, where applicable; · adverse weather conditions; · compliance with governmental requirements; and · shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or crews and the delivery of equipment. Drilling or re-working is a highly speculative activity. Even when fully and correctly utilized, modern well completion techniques such as hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling do not guarantee that we will find oil and/or natural gas in our wells. Our future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure would have an adverse affect on our future results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activities within a particular geographic area will not decline. We may identify and develop prospects through a number of methods, some of which do not include hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling, and some of which may be unproven. The drilling and results for these prospects may be particularly uncertain. Our drilling schedule and costs may vary from our capital budget. The final determination with respect to the drilling of any scheduled or budgeted prospects will be dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: · the results of previous development efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of data; · the availability of sufficient capital resources to us and the other participants, if any, for the drilling of the prospects; · the approval of the prospects by other participants, if any, after additional data has been compiled; · economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and natural gas and the availability of drilling rigs and crews; · our financial resources and results; · the availability of leases and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects; and · the success of our drilling technology. 20 We cannot assure you that these projects can be successfully developed or that the wells discussed will, if drilled, encounter reservoirs of commercially productive oil or natural gas. There are numerous uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, primarily oil reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flows and income. Successful development and production of those reserves cannot be assured. Additional drilling or workovers will be necessary in future years both to maintain production levels and to define the extent and recoverability of existing reserves. Our present wells may not continue to produce at current or anticipated rates of production, development drilling may not be successful, production of oil or natural gas may not commence when expected, and there may be unfavorable markets for oil and natural gas produced in the future. If we are unable to develop or produce reserves for continued production at current rates, we may become unprofitable or cease business. We are subject to complex laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner and feasibility of doing business. Our operations are directly or indirectly subject to extensive and continually changing regulation affecting the oil and natural gas industry. Many departments and agencies, both federal, state and local, are authorized by statute to issue, and have issued, rules and regulations binding on the oil and natural gas industry and our individual participants. The failure to comply with such rules and regulations can result in substantial penalties. The regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry increases our cost of doing business and, consequently, affects our profitability. If operations of our properties are found to be in violation of any of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment of operations. Any penalties, damages, fines or curtailment of operations, individually or in the aggregate, could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. In addition, many of these laws and regulations have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. Our operations and properties are also subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations specifically relating to environmental protection from the time projects commence until abandonment. These laws and regulations govern, among other things: the amounts and types of substances and materials that may be released; the issuance of permits in connection with exploration, drilling and production activities; the protection of endangered species; the release of emissions; the discharge and disposition of generated waste materials; offshore oil and natural gas operations; the reclamation and abandonment of wells and facility sites; and the remediation of contaminated sites. In addition, these laws and regulations may impose substantial liabilities for our failure to comply with them or for any contamination resulting from our operations. Future environmental laws and regulations, such as proposed legislation regulating climate change, may negatively impact our industry. The cost of meeting these requirements may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are vulnerable to risks associated with operating in the shallow Texas state waters that could negatively impact our operations and financial results. Our operations and financial results could be significantly impacted by conditions in the shallow Texas state waters because we explore and produce in that area. As a result of this activity, we are vulnerable to the risks associated with operating in the shallow Texas state waters, including those relating to: hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions; oil field service costs and availability; compliance with environmental and other laws and regulations; remediation and other costs resulting from oil spills or releases of hazardous materials; and failure of equipment or facilities. In addition, we are currently conducting some of our exploration in the shallow Texas state waters, where operations are more difficult and costly than on land. Further, production of reserves from reservoirs in the shallow Texas state waters generally declines more rapidly than from reservoirs in many other producing regions of the world. This results in recovery of a relatively higher percentage of reserves from properties in the shallow Texas state waters during the initial few years of production and, as a result, our reserve replacement needs from new prospects may be greater there than for our operations elsewhere. Also, our revenues and return on capital will depend significantly on prices prevailing during these relatively short production periods. 21 We may experience a financial loss if any of our significant customers fail to pay us for our oil or natural gas and to the extent these customers reduce the volumes they purchase from us. We depend on certain key customers for sales of our oil, natural gas and NGL. For the year ended December 31, 2008, sales of oil, natural gas and NGLs to Texon Corporation, DCP Midstream Partners LP, Energy Transfer Partners, LP, and Shell Trading (US) Company accounted for approximately 70%, 13%, 3%, and 2%, respectively, of the Company’s total revenue, or 88% in the aggregate. Our ability to collect the proceeds from the sale of oil and natural gas from our customers depends on the payment ability of these and other customers. If any one or more of our significant customers fails to pay us for any reason, we could experience a material loss. In addition, in recent years, a number of energy marketing and trading companies have discontinued their marketing and trading operations, which has significantly reduced the number of potential purchasers for our oil and natural gas production. This reduction in potential customers has reduced market liquidity and, in some cases, has made it difficult for us to identify creditworthy customers. We may experience a material loss as a result of the failure of our customers to pay us for prior purchases of our oil or natural gas. Furthermore, the loss of any significant customer may cause a temporary interruption in sales of, or a lower price for, our oil and natural gas that could have a significant negative impact on our business. If that were to happen, it may not be possible for us to immediately obtain replacement oil and natural gas purchasers as the industry is extremely competitive. Many of our leases are in areas that have been partially depleted or drained by offset wells. Many of our key project areas are located in the Giddings Field, which has produced approximately 1.6 billion Boe since drilling began there in the 1960’s. As a result, many of our leases are in areas that have already been partially depleted or drained by earlier offset drilling. This may inhibit our ability to find economically recoverable quantities of reserves in these areas. Our identified drilling location inventories are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling, resulting in temporarily lower cash from operations, which may impact our ability to pay distributions. Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. As of December 31, 2008, we had identified 27 lateral development well locations with redevelopment and re-completion potential on our leased acreage in the Giddings Field. These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil, natural gas and NGL prices, costs and drilling results. Our final determination on whether to drill any of these drilling locations will be dependent upon the factors described above as well as, to some degree, the results of our drilling activities with respect to our proved drilling locations. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous drilling locations we have identified will be drilled within our expected timeframe or will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil, natural gas and NGL from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are uncertain and any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates will materially affect the quantities and the value of our reserves. This Annual Report contains estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and the value of our reserves. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. 22 Although we have prepared estimates of these oil and natural gas reserves and the costs associated with development of these reserves in accordance with SEC regulations, we cannot assure you that the estimated costs or estimated reserves are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled or that the actual results will be as estimated. Accordingly, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward adjustment. The information regarding discounted future net cash flows included in this report should not be considered as the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties. As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as the amount and timing of actual production, supply and demand for oil and natural gas, increases or decreases in consumption, and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Future hedging activities may prevent us from realizing the benefits in oil or natural gas price increases. As of the date of this report, we have no hedge positions in place. All hedge positions were closed out in December 2008. However, in an attempt to reduce our sensitivity to oil and natural gas price volatility, in the future we may enter into hedging transactions which may include fixed price swaps, price collars, puts and other derivatives. In a typical hedge transaction, we may fix the price, a floor or a range, on a portion of our production over a predetermined period of time. There are numerous risks associated with hedging activities such as the risk that reserves are not produced at rates equivalent to the hedged position, and the risk that production and transportation cost assumptions used in determining an acceptable hedge could be substantially different from the actual cost. In addition, the counter-party to the hedge may become unable or unwilling to perform its obligations under hedging contracts, and we could incur a material adverse financial effect if there is any significant non-performance. While intended to reduce the effects of oil and natural gas price volatility, hedging transactions may limit potential gains earned by us from oil and natural gas price increases and may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which our production is less than the hedged volumes, there is a widening of price basis differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement, or a sudden unexpected event materially impacts oil and natural gas prices. Engaging in hedging activities may prevent us from realizing the benefits of price increases above the levels of the hedges during certain time periods We may be unable to effectively maintain our oil and natural gas exploration business. Timely, effective and successful oil and natural gas exploration and production is essential to maintaining our reputation as an oil and natural gas exploration and production company. Lack of opportunities or success may significantly affect our viability. The principal components of our operating costs include salaries paid to corporate staff, costs of retention of qualified independent engineers and geologists, annual system maintenance and rental costs, insurance, transportation costs and substantial equipment and machinery costs. Because the majority of these expenses are fixed, a reduction in the number of successful oil exploration projects, failures in discovery of new opportunities or termination of ongoing projects will result in lower revenues and margins. Prior success in exploration or production of wells does not guarantee future success in similar ventures; thus, our revenues could decline and our ability to effectively engage in oil recovery business would be harmed. Loss of key executives and failure to attract qualified managers, technologists, independent engineers and geologists could limit our growth and negatively impact our operations. We depend upon our management team to a substantial extent. In particular, we depend upon Mr. Michael J. Pawelek, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Wayne A. Psencik, our Chief Operating Officer, Ms. Sherry L. Spurlock, our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Theodore J. Wicks, our Executive Vice President of Corporate Development, Mr. Robert W. Kuehner, our Vice President of Land Management, and Mr. Edward D. Shaw, our Vice President of Operations, for their skills, experience, and knowledge of the company and industry contacts. The loss of any of these executives, or other members of our management team, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 23 As we grow, we may increasingly require field managers with experience in our industry and skilled engineers, geologists and technologists to operate our diagnostic, seismic and 3D equipment. It is impossible to predict the availability of qualified managers, technologists, skilled engineers and geologists or the compensation levels that will be required to hire them. In particular, there is a very high demand for qualified technologists who are particularly necessary to operate systems similar to the ones that we operate. We may not be able to hire and retain a sufficient number of technologists, engineers and geologists and we may be required to pay bonuses and higher independent contractor rates to our technologists, engineers and geologists which would increase our expenses. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management or our inability to hire qualified managers, technologists, skilled engineers and geologists at economically reasonable compensation levels could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. We will need to increase the size of our organization, and may experience difficulties in managing growth. We are a small company with 15 employees as of December 31, 2008. We expect to experience a period of expansion in headcount, facilities, infrastructure and overhead and anticipate that further expansion will be required to address potential growth and market opportunities. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional independent contractors and managers. Our future financial performance and our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. Assets we acquire may prove to be worth less than we paid because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. We expect acquisitions will contribute to our future growth, but we cannot assure that we will recover the costs we incur in acquiring oil and natural gas properties. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil and natural gas prices, operating and capital costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. There can be no assurance that any properties we acquire will be economically produced or developed. Re-engineering operations pose the risk that anticipated benefits, which may include reserve additions, production rate improvements or lower recurring operating expenses, may not be achieved, or that actual results obtained may not be sufficient to recover investments. In connection with our assessments of the properties we acquire, we perform a review which we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect every well. Even when we inspect a well, we do not always discover structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise. We may not be able to obtain contractual indemnities from the seller for the liabilities that it created, or we may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations. Even if a seller agrees to provide indemnity, the indemnity may not be fully enforceable and may be limited by floors and caps on such indemnity. The indemnifications we received in the Leexus Acquisition are subject to floors, caps and time limitations and do not cover all these types of risks. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to acquire oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or be able to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms. We may have write-downs of our asset values, which could negatively affect our results of operations and net worth. We follow the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and natural gas properties. We are required to periodically review our oil and gas assets for impairment. If oil, natural gas and NGLs prices remain depressed or continue to decline, we may be required to write-down the value of our oil and natural gas properties. Such non-cash asset impairments could negatively affect our results of operations Title to the properties in which we have an interest may be impaired by title defects. We generally obtain title opinions on significant properties in which we have working interests. However, there is no assurance that we will not suffer a monetary loss from title defects or failure. Generally, under the terms of the operating agreements affecting our properties, any monetary loss is to be borne by all parties to any such agreement in proportion to their interests in such property. If there are any title defects or defects in assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which we hold an interest, we will suffer a financial loss. 24 The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel for the operator of our properties. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling rig crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. Increasing levels of exploration and production in response to any future increases in the prices of oil and natural gas may result in rising demand for oilfield services, in which case the costs of these services may increase while the quality of these services may suffer. If the unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel is particularly severe in Texas, Louisiana, Colorado and the Gulf Coast, we could be materially and adversely affected because our properties are concentrated in those areas. Oilfield service and materials’ prices may escalate, and the availability of such services may be inadequate to meet our needs. Our business plan to develop oil and natural gas resources requires third party oilfield service vendors and various materials such as steel tubulars, which we do not control. Long lead times and spot shortages may prevent us from, or delay us in, maintaining or increasing the production volumes we expect. In addition, escalating costs for such services and materials may render certain or all of our projects uneconomic, as compared to the earlier prices we may have assumed when deciding to redevelop newly purchased or existing properties. Further adverse economic outcomes may result from the long lead times often necessary to execute and complete our redevelop plans. Transportation delays, including as a result of disruptions to infrastructure, could adversely affect our operations. Our business will depend on the availability of a distribution infrastructure. Any disruptions in this infrastructure network, whether caused by earthquakes, storms, other natural disasters or human error or malfeasance, could materially impact our business. Therefore, any unexpected delay in transportation of our produced oil and natural gas could result in significant disruption to our operations. We rely upon others for distribution of oil and natural gas, and any failure on their part could impede the delivery of our oil and natural gas, impose additional costs on us or otherwise cause our results of operations or financial condition to suffer. The oil and natural gas exploration and production industry is very competitive, and some of our exploration and production competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. The market for oil and natural gas recovery projects is generally highly competitive. Our ability to compete depends on many factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: timing and market acceptance, introduction of competitive technologies, and price and purchaser’s interest in acquiring our oil and natural gas output. Many existing competitors, as well as potential new competitors, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, substantial track records, and significantly greater financial, technical and technological resources than us. This may allow them to devote greater resources to the development and promotion of their oil and natural gas exploration and production projects. Many of these competitors offer a wider range of oil and natural gas opportunities not available to us and may attract business partners consequently resulting in a decrease of our business opportunities. These competitors may also engage in more extensive research and development, adopt more aggressive strategies and make more attractive offers to existing and potential purchasers, and partners. Furthermore, competitors may develop technology and oil and natural gas exploration strategies that are equal or superior to us and achieve greater market recognition. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to better address the needs of our target market. As a result, it is possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Material differences between the estimated and actual timing of critical events may affect the completion of and commencement of production from development projects. We are involved in several development projects. Key factors that may affect the timing and outcome of such projects include: project approvals by joint-venture partners; timely issuance of permits and licenses by governmental agencies; weather conditions; manufacturing and delivery schedules of critical equipment; and commercial arrangements for pipelines and related equipment to transport and market hydrocarbons. Delays and differences between estimated and actual timing of critical events may affect our projections related to such development projects. 25 Indemnities may be unenforceable or uncollectible which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and future operations. The joint operating agreements with participants in an oil and natural gas ventures generally provide for the indemnification of the operator; however, joint operating agreements may not be in force and effect with regard some of our properties in which we are the operator. Furthermore, such indemnification rights may not be enforceable or a participant may not be financially able to comply with its indemnification obligations. We may not be able to obtain such indemnification agreements in the future. The failure to obtain enforceable indemnification agreements or a participant’s inability to indemnify us may cause us to assume all operating costs of a property. Such a result could adversely affect our business, financial condition and future operations which additionally, could cause us to become insolvent. We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate, and are dependent on the skill, ability and decisions of third party operators with regard to such properties. We operate most, but not all, of our properties. As of December 31, 2008, our DJ Basin, Colorado property was a non-operated property. The success of the drilling, development, production and marketing of the oil and natural gas from non-operated properties is dependent upon the decisions of third-party operators and their diligence to comply with various laws, rules and regulations affecting such properties. The failure of any third-party operator to make decisions, perform their services, discharge their obligations, deal with regulatory agencies, and comply with laws, rules and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations in a proper manner with respect to properties in which we have an interest could result in material adverse consequences to our interest in such properties, including substantial penalties and compliance costs. We have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of non-operated properties or the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund with respect to them. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence or control the operation and future development of these properties could materially adversely affect the realization of our targeted returns on capital and lead to unexpected future costs. We have hurricane associated risks in connection with our operations in the Texas, Louisiana and the Gulf Coast. We could be subject to production curtailments resulting from hurricane damage to certain fields or, even in the event that producing fields are not damaged, production could be curtailed due to damage to facilities and equipment owned by oil and natural gas purchasers, or vendors and suppliers, because a portion of our oil and natural gas properties are located in or near coastal areas of the Texas, Louisiana and Gulf Coast. Our Matagorda Bay properties are located in the shallow Texas state waters in Calhoun and Matagorda Counties and could be subject to associated hurricane related risks. We may not carry sufficient insurance, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and future operations. To protect against possible liability, we maintain liability insurance with coverage that we believe is consistent with industry practice and appropriate in light of the risks attendant to our business. However, if we are unable to maintain insurance in the future at an acceptable cost or at all, or if our insurance does not fully cover us and a successful claim was made against us, we could be exposed to liability. Moreover, large claims successfully asserted against us might cause us to pay much higher insurance premiums or a large deductible or co-payment. Any claim made against us not fully covered by insurance could be costly to defend against, result in a substantial damage award against us and divert the attention of management from our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. The nature of the oil and natural gas business involves a variety of operating hazards such as fires, explosions, cratering, blow-outs, adverse weather conditions, pollution and environmental risks, encountering formations with abnormal pressures, and, in horizontal wellbores, the increased risk of mechanical failure and collapsed holes, the occurrence of any of which could result in substantial losses to us. Other significant hazards may be discovered in the future. We may be subject to liability claims as an owner of working interests with respect to certain types of liabilities. Repercussions from terrorist activities or armed conflict could harm our business. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts or other armed conflict involving the United States or its interests abroad may adversely affect the United States and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our financial and other obligations. If events of this nature occur and persist, the political instability and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for oil and natural gas, potentially putting downward pressure on prevailing oil and natural gas prices and causing a reduction in our revenues. Oil and natural gas production facilities, transportation systems and storage facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our operations is destroyed or damaged by such an attack. Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. 26 Risks Related to Our Common Stock The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, strain our resources and increase our costs, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. As a public company, we need to comply with laws, regulations and requirements, including certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations of the SEC. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements occupies a significant amount of the time of our board of directors and management. We are or may be required to: · institute a comprehensive compliance function; · establish internal policies, such as those relating to disclosure controls and procedures and insider trading; · design, establish, evaluate and maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; · prepare and distribute periodic reports in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws; · involve and retain outside counsel and accountants in the above activities; and · establish an investor relations function. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies subject to the act to disclose any material weaknesses discovered through management’s assessments. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We will continue to monitor the effectiveness of these and other processes, procedures and controls and will make any further changes management determines appropriate, including to effect compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting may affect our ability to comply with SEC reporting requirements and the NASDAQ Global Market, listing standards or cause our financial statements to contain material misstatements, which could negatively affect the market price and trading liquidity of our common stock, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, as well as subject us to civil or criminal investigations and penalties. We may be unable to meet the standards established by the NASDAQ Global Market for the continued listing of our common stock. Our common stock has been quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “STXX” since October 31, 2007, and we must meet certain established standards for our common stock to continue to be listed the NASDAQ Global Market. The standards for continued listing on either market require, among other things, that the minimum bid price for the listed securities be at least $1.00 per share. Our common stock has recently been trading below $1.00 per share. On October 16, 2008, NASDAQ implemented a temporary suspension of the $1.00 minimum price bid rule. This temporary suspension is currently scheduled to expire on July 20, 2009. If our common stock were to be excluded from the NASDAQ Global Market, the prices of our common stock and the ability of holders to sell such stock would be adversely affected, and we would be required to comply with the initial listing requirements to be relisted on the NASDAQ Global Market. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to fluctuations in response to a number of factors beyond our control. Some of these factors relating to volatility include: · our results of operations and the performance of our competitors; · the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission; 27 · changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who follow, or may follow, us or other companies in our industry; · changes in general economic conditions; · changes in market prices for oil and natural gas; · actions of our historical equity investors, including sales of common stock by our directors and executive officers; · actions by institutional investors trading in our stock; · disruption of our operations; · any major change in our management team; · other developments affecting us, our industry or our competitors; and · U.S. and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. In recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause declines in the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company or our performance, and those fluctuations could materially reduce our common stock price. The market for our common stock is limited and may not provide adequate liquidity. Our common stock is currently thinly traded. In the year prior to December 31, 2008, the actual daily trading volume in our common stock ranged from a low of zero (0) shares of common stock traded to a high of 594,600 shares of common stock traded, with only 22 days exceeding a trading volume of 50,000 shares. On most days, this trading volume means there is limited liquidity in our shares of common stock. Selling our shares is more difficult because smaller quantities of shares are bought and sold and news media coverage about us is limited. These factors result in a limited trading market for our common stock and therefore holders of our stock may be unable to sell shares purchased, should they desire to do so. The issuance of additional common and preferred stock would dilute existing stockholders. We are authorized to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of common stock, and our stockholders have recently approved, subject to SEC review of our Information Statement on Schedule 14C, increasing the number of authorized shares available for issuance to 200,000,000 shares. To the extent of such authorization, our board of directors has the ability, without seeking stockholder approval, to issue additional shares of common stock in the future for such consideration as our board may consider sufficient. The issuance of additional common stock in the future would reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of the common stock now outstanding. During calendar year 2008, we approved the grant of our common stock in the form of restricted stock awards under our Equity Incentive Compensation Plan to our executive officers, to certain other employees, to our directors and to a consultant engaged by our board of directors. We plan to make similar awards under our Equity Incentive Compensation Plan in current and future years. We are also authorized to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights and preferences of which may be designated in series by our board of directors. Such designation of a new series of preferred stock may be made without stockholder approval, and could create additional securities which would have dividend and liquidation preferences over the common stock now outstanding. Preferred stockholders could adversely affect the rights of holders of common stock by: · exercising voting, redemption and conversion rights to the detriment of the holders of common stock; · receiving preferences over the holders of common stock regarding our surplus funds in the event of our dissolution, liquidation or the payment of dividends to preferred stockholders; · delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; and · discouraging bids for our common stock. We recently entered into a securities exchange agreement with The Longview Fund L.P., pursuant to which the Company will 1.6 million shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred stock in connection with our $26.1 debt restructuring and non-core asset dispositions. These shares were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, and their resale was restricted. The holders of such shares have certain registration rights and will be able to sell their shares in the public market without restriction prior to such times if registration is affected. These 1.6 million shares of Series A Convertible Preferred stock convert into approximately 39 million shares of common stock at $0.50 per share. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 28 Our executive officers, directors and affiliates may be able to control the election of our directors and all other matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. The following share calculations treat shares issuable upon the exercise of options or warrants as outstanding (both in the numerator and denominator for percentages) and assume actual vesting. Our executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially own or have the right to acquire approximately 2.4 million shares or approximately 12% of our fully diluted common stock, exclusive of which The Longview Fund, L.P and Doud Oil & Gas Company LLC currently owns or controls, directly or indirectly, approximately 7.8 million shares and 2.4 million shares, respectively, or approximately 44% and 12% of our fully diluted common stock, respectively. As a result, these holders, if they were to act together, could exercise effective control over all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval (including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets). This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our common stock could decline. Small, relatively unknown companies can achieve visibility in the trading market through research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish. The lack of published reports by independent securities analysts could limit the interest in our common stock and negatively affect our stock price. We do not have any control over the research and reports these analysts publish or whether they will be published at all. If any analyst who does cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price could decline. If analysts fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of December 31, 2008, we did not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff that were received 180 or more days prior to year-end. ITEM 