ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS AND UNCERTAINTIES An investment in a mine service and an exploration stage mining company with a short history of operations such as ours involves an unusually high amount of risk, both unknown and known, present and potential, including, but not limited to the risks enumerated below. Our failure to successfully address the risks and uncertainties described below would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock may decline and investors may lose all or part of their investment. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address these risks or other unknown risks that may affect our business. Estimates of mineralized material are forward-looking statements inherently subject to error. Although resource estimates require a high degree of assurance in the underlying data when the estimates are made, unforeseen events and uncontrollable factors can have significant adverse or positive impacts on the estimates. Actual results will inherently differ from estimates. The unforeseen events and uncontrollable factors include: geologic uncertainties including inherent sample variability, metal price fluctuations, variations in mining and processing parameters, and adverse changes in environmental or mining laws and regulations. The timing and effects of variances from estimated values cannot be accurately predicted. Risks Associated With Mining and The Exploration Portion of Our Business All of our properties are in the exploration stage. There is no assurance that we can establish the existence of any mineral reserve on any of our properties in commercially exploitable quantities. Until we can do so, we cannot earn any revenues from these properties and if we do not do so we will lose all of the funds that we expend on exploration. If we do not discover any mineral reserve in a commercially exploitable quantity, the exploration component of our business could fail. We have not established that any of our mineral properties contain any mineral reserve according to recognized reserve guidelines, nor can there be any assurance that we will be able to do so. A mineral reserve is defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its Industry Guide 7 (http://www.sec.gov/divisions/corpfin/forms/industry.htm#secguide7) as that part of a mineral deposit, which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The probability of an individual prospect ever having a "reserve" that meets the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission's Industry Guide 7 is extremely remote; in all probability our mineral property does not contain any 'reserve' and any funds that we spend on exploration will probably be lost. Even if we do eventually discover a mineral reserve on one or more of our properties, there can be no assurance that they can be d eveloped into producing mines and extract those minerals. Both mineral exploration and development involve a high degree of risk and few properties which are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. The commercial viability of an established mineral deposit will depend on a number of factors including, by way of example, the size, grade and other attributes of the mineral deposit, the proximity of the mineral deposit to infrastructure such as a smelter, roads and a point for shipping, government regulation and market prices. Most of these factors will be beyond our control, and any of them could increase costs and make extraction of any identified mineral deposit unprofitable. Mineral operations are subject to applicable law and government regulation. Even if we discover a mineral reserve in a commercially exploitable quantity, these laws and regulations could restrict or prohibit the exploitation of that mineral reserve. If we cannot exploit any mineral reserve that we might discover on our properties, our business may fail. Both mineral exploration and extraction require permits from various foreign, federal, state, provincial and local governmental authorities and are governed by laws and regulations, including those with respect to prospecting, mine development, mineral production, transport, export, taxation, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, land use, environmental protection, mine safety and other matters. Regarding our future ground disturbing activity on federal land, we will be required to obtain a permit from the US Forest Service or the Bureau of Land Management prior to commencing exploration. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain any of the permits required for the continued exploration of our mineral properties or for the construction and operation of a mine on our properties at economically viable costs. If we cannot accomplish these objectives, our business could face dif ficulty and/or fail. We believe that we are in compliance with all material laws and regulations that currently apply to our activities but there can be no assurance that we can continue to do so. Current laws and regulations could be amended and we might not be able to comply with them, as amended. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain all permits necessary for our future operations, or that we will be able to obtain them on reasonable terms. To the extent such approvals are required and are not obtained, we may be delayed or prohibited from proceeding with planned exploration or development of our mineral properties. Environmental hazards unknown to us, which have been caused by previous or existing owners or operators of the properties, may exist on the properties in which we hold an interest. In past years we have been engaged in exploration in northern Idaho, which is currently the site of a Federal Superfund cleanup project. Although the Company is no longer involved in this or other areas at present, it is possible that environmental cleanup or other environmental restoration procedures could remain to be completed or mandated by law, causing unpredictable and unexpected liabilities to arise. At the date of this Annual Report, the Company is not aware of any environmental issues or litigation relating to any of its current or former properties. 5 Future legislation and administrative changes to the mining laws could prevent us from exploring our properties. New state and U.S. federal laws and regulations, amendments to existing laws and regulations, administrative interpretation of existing laws and regulations, or more stringent enforcement of existing laws and regulations, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct exploration and mining activities. Any change in the regulatory structure making it more expensive to engage in mining activities could cause us to cease operations. If we establish the existence of a mineral reserve on any of our properties in a commercially exploitable quantity, we will require additional capital in order to develop the property into a producing mine. If we cannot raise this additional capital, we will not be able to exploit the reserve, and our business could fail. If we do discover mineral reserves in commercially exploitable quantities on any of our properties, we will be required to expend substantial sums of money to establish the extent of the reserve, develop processes to extract it and develop extraction and processing facilities and infrastructure. Although we may derive substantial benefits from the discovery of a major deposit, there can be no assurance that such a resource will be large enough to justify commercial operations, nor can there be any assurance that we will be able to raise the funds required for development on a timely basis. If we cannot raise the necessary capital or complete the necessary facilities and infrastructure, our business may fail. Mineral exploration and development is subject to extraordinary operating risks. We do not currently insure against these risks. In the event of a cave-in or similar occurrence, our liability may exceed our resources, which would have an adverse impact on our Company. Mineral exploration, development and production involve many risks, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Our operations will be subject to all the hazards and risks inherent in the exploration, development and production of resources, including liability for pollution, cave-ins or similar hazards against which we cannot insure or against which we may elect not to insure. Any such event could result in work stoppages and damage to property, including damage to the environment. We do not currently maintain any insurance coverage against these operating hazards. The payment of any liabilities that arise from any such occurrence would have a material, adverse impact on our Company. Estimates of mineralized material are subject to evaluation uncertainties that could result in project failure. Our exploration and future mining operations, if any, are and would be faced with risks associated with being able to accurately predict the quantity and quality of mineralized material within the earth using statistical sampling techniques. Estimates of any mineralized material on any of our properties would be made using samples obtained from appropriately placed trenches, test pits and underground workings and intelligently designed drilling. There is an inherent variability of assays between check and duplicate samples taken adjacent to each other and between sampling points that cannot be reasonably eliminated. Additionally, there also may be unknown geologic details that have not been identified or correctly appreciated at the current level of accumulated knowledge about our properties. This could result in uncertainties that cannot be reasonably eliminated from the process of estimating mineralized material. If thes e estimates were to prove to be unreliable, we could implement an exploitation plan that may not lead to commercially viable operations in the future. Mineral prices are subject to dramatic and unpredictable fluctuations. Other than from our drilling services subsidiaries, we expect to derive revenues, if any, from the eventual extraction and sale of precious and base metals such as gold, silver and copper. The price of those commodities has fluctuated widely in recent years, and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control including international, economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, interest rates, global or regional consumptive patterns, speculative activities and increased production due to new extraction developments and improved extraction and production methods. The effect of these factors on the price of base and precious metals, and, therefore, the economic viability of any of our exploration projects, cannot accurately be predicted. The mining industry is highly competitive and there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in acquiring mineral claims. If we cannot continue to acquire properties to explore for mineral resources, we may be required to reduce or cease exploration activity and/or operations. The mineral exploration, development, and production industry is largely un-integrated. We compete with other exploration companies looking for mineral resource properties and the resources that can be produced from them. While we compete with other exploration companies in the effort to locate and license mineral resource properties, we do not compete with them for the removal or sales of mineral products from our properties if we should eventually discover the presence of them in quantities sufficient to make production economically feasible. Readily available markets exist worldwide for the sale of gold and other mineral products. Therefore, we will likely be able to sell any gold or mineral products that we identify and produce. There are hundreds of public and private companies that are actively engaged in mineral exploration. Furthermore, since the mineral exploration sphere is so diverse and there are virtually no similar exploration companies with a revenue producing drilling subsidiary, it is quite difficult to identify specific primary competitors and make comparisons to our Company. A representative sample of exploration companies that are similar to our Company in size, financial resources and primary objective include such publicly traded mineral exploration companies as Goldrich Mining Company (GRMC), General Moly, Inc. (GMO), Energold Drilling (EGD), Cabo Drilling (CBE), Klondex Mining (KDX) and Mines Management (MGN). 6 Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and technical facilities. Accordingly, we will attempt to compete primarily through the knowledge and experience of our management. This competition could adversely affect our ability to acquire suitable prospects for exploration in the future. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will acquire any interest in additional mineral resource properties that might yield reserves or result in commercial mining operations. Third parties may challenge our rights to our mineral properties or the agreements that permit us to explore our properties may expire if we fail to timely renew them and pay the required fees. In connection with the acquisition of our mineral properties, we sometimes conduct only limited reviews of title and related matters, and obtain certain representations regarding ownership. These limited reviews do not necessarily preclude third parties from challenging our title and, furthermore, our title may be defective. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we hold good and marketable title to all of our mining concessions and mining claims. If any of our concessions or claims were challenged, we could incur significant costs and lose valuable time in defending such a challenge. These costs or an adverse ruling with regards to any challenge of our titles could have a material adverse affect on our financial position or results of operations. There can be no assurance that any such disputes or challenges will be resolved in our favor. We are not aware of challenges to the location or area of any of our mining claims. There is, however, no guarantee that title to the claims will not be challenged or impugned in the future. Acquisitions and integration issues may expose us to risks. Our business strategy includes making targeted acquisitions. Any acquisition that we make may be of a significant size, may change the scale of our business and operations, and may expose us to new geographic, political, operating, financial and geological risks. Our success in our acquisition activities depends on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable terms for any such acquisition and integrate the acquired operations successfully with our own. Any acquisitions would be accompanied by risks. For example, there may be significant decreases in commodity prices after we have committed to complete the transaction and have established the purchase price or exchange ratio; a potential materialized property may prove to be below expectations; we may have difficulty integrating and assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired companies, realizing anticipated synergies and max imizing the financial and strategic position of the combined enterprise and maintaining uniform standards, policies and controls across the organization; the integration of the acquired business or assets may disrupt our ongoing business and its relationships with employees, customers, suppliers and contractors; and the acquired business or assets may have unknown liabilities which may be significant. If we choose to use equity securities as consideration for such an acquisition, existing shareholders may suffer dilution. Alternatively, we may choose to finance any such acquisition with our existing resources. There can be no assurance that the Company would be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with such acquisitions. Joint ventures and other partnerships in relation to our properties may expose us to risks. We are currently involved in, and may enter into in the future, joint ventures or other partnership arrangements with other parties in relation to the exploration, development and production of certain of the properties in which we have an interest, particularly the Butte Highlands project. Joint ventures can often require unanimous approval of the parties to the joint venture or their representatives for certain fundamental decisions such as an increase or reduction of registered capital, merger, division, dissolution, amendments of constating documents, and the pledge of joint venture assets, which means that each joint venture party may have a veto right with respect to such decisions which could lead to a deadlock in the operations of the joint venture or partnership. Further, we may be unable to exert control over strategic decisions made in respect of such properties. Any failure of such other companies to meet thei r obligations to us or to third parties, or any disputes with respect to the parties' respective rights and obligations, could have a material adverse effect on the joint ventures or their properties and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial performance, cash flows and the price of the common shares. Risks Related To Our Company We have a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our business and prospects. Although we have been in the business of exploring mineral resource properties since our incorporation in 1968, we were inactive for many years prior to our new management in January 2004. Since January 2004, we have not yet located any mineral reserve. As a result, we have not had any revenues from our exploration division, however we do have a drilling services wholly owned subsidiary which has generated revenues in past fiscal years and which we expect to generate revenues in the future. In addition, our operating history has been restricted to the acquisition and exploration of our mineral properties and this does not provide a meaningful basis for an evaluation of our prospects if we ever determine that we have a mineral reserve and commence the construction and operation of a mine. Other than through conventional and typical exploration methods and procedures, we have no additional way to evaluate the likelihood of whether our mineral properties contain any mineral reserve or, if they do that they will be operated successfully. We anticipate that we will continue to incur operating costs without realizing any revenues (from exploration) during the period when we are exploring our properties. During the fiscal year ending September 30, 2009, we (the parent company) had losses of $5,997,234 in connection with the maintenance and exploration of our mineral properties and the operation of our exploration business. We therefore expect to continue to incur significant losses into the foreseeable future. We recognize that if we are unable to generate significant revenues from mining operations 7 and dispositions of our properties, we will not be able to earn profits or continue operations. At this early stage of our operation, we also expect to face the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies at the start up stage of their business development. We cannot be sure that we will be successful in addressing these risks and uncertainties and our failure to do so could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition. There is no history upon which to base any assumption as to the likelihood that we will prove successful and we can provide investors with no assurance that we will generate any operating revenues or ever achieve profitable operations. Investors’ interests in our Company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share if we issue additional employee/director/consultant options or if we sell additional shares to finance our operations. We have not generated revenue from exploration since the commencement of our exploration stage in January 2004. However our business model includes our revenue generating and wholly owned drilling services subsidiaries. In order to further expand our company and objectives above that provided through the anticipated revenues of our revenue producing subsidiaries, any additional growth and/or expanded exploration activity may need to be financed through sale of and issuance of additional shares. Furthermore, to finance any acquisition activity, should that activity be properly approved, and depending on the outcome of our exploration programs, we may also need to issue additional shares to finance future acquisitions, growth and/or additional exploration programs of any or all of our projects or to acquire additional properties. We may also in the future grant to some or all of our directors, officers, insiders, and key employees options to purchase our common shares as non-cash incentives. The issuance of any equity securities could, and the issuance of any additional shares will, cause our existing shareholders to experience dilution of their ownership interests. If we issue additional shares or decide to enter into joint ventures with other parties in order to raise financing through the sale of equity securities, investors' interests in our Company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share depending on the price at which such securities are sold. As of the date of the filing of this report there are also outstanding 1,697,938 common share purchase warrants (exercisable into 1,697,938 shares of common stock), options granted that are exercisable into 6,006,499 common shares and debt convertible into 3,713,063 common shares. If all of these were exercised or converted, these would represent approximately 22% of our issued and outstanding shares. If all of these warrants and options are exercised and the underlying shares are issued, such issuance will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all other shareholders. The dilut ion may result in a decline in the market price of our shares. Recent market events and conditions, including disruptions in the U.S. and international credit markets and other financial systems and the deterioration of the U.S. and global economic conditions, could, among other things, impede access to capital or increase the cost of capital, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our working capital and other capital requirements. Throughout 2009, the U.S. credit markets have continued to experience serious disruption due to a deterioration in residential property values, defaults and delinquencies in the residential mortgage market (particularly, subprime and non-prime mortgages) and a decline in the credit quality of mortgage backed securities that occurred throughout 2008 and into 2009. These conditions have continued to create a loss of confidence in the broader U.S. and global credit and financial markets and there remains a climate of greater volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads, a lack of price transparency, increased credit losses and tighter credit conditions. Concerns about the general condition of the capital markets, financial instruments, banks, investment banks, insurers and other financial institutions continue to affect the broader credit markets and stock markets. While there has been some improvement in recent mon ths, we expect these conditions to persist into the near future. These unprecedented disruptions in the current credit and financial markets have had a significant material adverse impact on a number of financial institutions and have limited access to capital and credit for many companies. These disruptions could, among other things, make it more difficult for us to obtain, or increase our cost of obtaining, capital and financing for our operations. Our access to additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Dividend Record We have no dividend record. We have not paid dividends on our common shares since incorporation and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. Conflicts of Interest Certain of our officers and directors may be or become associated with other businesses, including natural resource companies that acquire interests in mineral properties. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. Our directors are required by Delaware Corporation law to act honestly and in good faith with a view to our best interests and to disclose any interest, which they may have in any of our projects or opportunities. In general, if a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of the board of directors, any director in a conflict will disclose his interest and abstain from voting on such matter or, if he does vote, his vote will not be counted. We have not adopted any separate formal corporate policy regarding conflicts of interest; however other corporate governance measures have been adopted, such as creating a directors’ audit committee requiring independent directors. Additionally, our Code of Ethics does address areas of possible conflicts of interest. As of the date of filing of this report, we had three independent directors on our board of directors (Jim Moore, Vance Thornsberry and Eric Klepfer). In January 2008, we formed three committees to ensure our compliance with the requirements of the NYSE Amex. We established an independent audit committee consisting of three independent directors, all of whom were determined to be “financially literate” and one of whom was designated as the “financial expert”. We also formed a 8 compensation committee and a corporate governance and nominating committee, both of which are comprised entirely of independent directors. At this time, we feel that these committees and our Code of Ethics provide sufficient corporate governance for our purposes and will meet the specific requirements of the NYSE Amex. Dependence on Key Management Employees The nature of both sides of our business, our ability to continue our exploration and development activities and to develop a competitive edge in the marketplace depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and maintain qualified key management personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such personnel. Our development now and in the future will depend on the efforts of key management figures, such as Randal Hardy, Paul Dircksen, Craig Crowell, Martin Lanphere or Paul Elloway. The loss of any of these key people could have a material adverse effect on our business. In this regard, we have attempted to reduce the risk associated with the loss of key personnel and have obtained directors and officers insurance coverage. In addition, we have expanded the provisions of our equity incentive plan so that we can provide incentives for our key personnel. P> Certain Risks Associated with Operation of Our Wholly Owned Subsidiary, Timberline Drilling, Incorporated. Our subsidiary derives all of its revenues from companies in the mining exploration and production industry, a historically cyclical industry. Our subsidiary derives all its revenues from companies in the mining exploration and production industry, a historically cyclical industry. Any prolonged reduction in the overall level of exploration and development activities, can adversely impact our subsidiary in many ways by negatively affecting: • Its revenues, cash flows and profitability; • Its ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity; • Its ability to obtain additional capital to finance our business and make acquisitions, and the cost of that capital; • Its ability to retain skilled drilling personnel whom we would need in the event of an upturn in the demand for our services; and • the fair market value of its rig fleet. Timberline Drilling may be unable to attract and retain qualified, skilled employees necessary to operate its business. Timberline Drilling’s success depends in large part on its ability to attract and retain skilled and qualified personnel. The inability of Timberline Drilling officers and management to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could impair the ability to manage and maintain our business. Drilling and drilling related work requires skilled employees who can perform physically demanding work. Shortages of qualified personnel are occurring in this industry. As a result of the volatility of the drilling industry and the demanding nature of the work, potential employees may choose to pursue employment in fields that offer a more desirable work environment at wage rates that are competitive with ours. If Timberline Drilling should suffer any material loss of personnel to competitors or management is unable to employ additional or replacement personnel with the requisite level of training and experience to adequately operate its equipment, its operations could be materially and adversely affected. With a reduced pool of workers, it is possible that it will have to raise wage rates to attract workers from other fields and to retain its current employees. If Timberline Drilling is not able to increase its service rates to its customers to compensate for wage-rate increases, its profitability and other results of operations may be adversely affected. Shortages in equipment and supplies could limit Timberline Drilling’s drilling operations and jeopardize its relations with customers. The materials and supplies Timberline Drilling uses in its drilling operations include fuels to operate our drilling equipment, drilling mud, drill pipe, drill collars, drill bits and cement. Shortages in equipment supplies could limit its drilling operations and jeopardize its relations with customers. Timberline Drilling does not rely on a single source of supply for any of these items. From time to time there have been shortages of drilling equipment and supplies during periods of high demand, which we believe could reoccur. Shortages could result in increased prices for drilling equipment or supplies that Timberline Drilling may be unable to pass on to customers. In addition, during periods of shortages, the delivery times for equipment and supplies can be substantially longer. Any significant delays in its obtaining drilling equipment or supplies could limit drilling operations and jeopardize our relations with customers. In addition, shortages of drilling equipment or supplies could delay and adversely affect Timberline Drilling’s ability to obtain new contracts for its drills, which could negatively impact its revenues and profitability. The mining services industry is a competitive industry. Contract drilling is a highly competitive industry, where numerous competitors tender bids for contracts. Timberline Drilling’s ongoing ability to continue to secure contracts at a profitable level cannot be assured. Cyclical downturns in the mining industry could negatively impact Timberline Drilling’s business. The most significant operating risk is the potential downturn in demand for minerals and metals which would directly impact the need for drilling services. To mitigate this risk the Timberline Drilling is exploiting its competitive advantage in underground drilling. 9 As the mining cycle lengthens and activity levels increase, the requirement for working capital, particularly accounts receivable and inventory, grows. Accounts receivable levels from junior mining companies typically increase. Junior mining companies are heavily dependent on the capital markets and any change in outlook of the mining sector, or lack of success of their exploration activities, can quickly affect their ability to carry on drilling programs. Timberline Drilling manages this risk by closely monitoring accounts receivable aging and the activity of junior mining companies in the capital markets. Deposits and letters of credit are required in some instances. Levels of inventory increase from increased revenue activity and, potentially, an increase in activity in remote locations. In the event of a sudden downturn Timberline Drilling may be exposed to inventory carrying costs and possible obsolescence. Furthermore it may be difficult and costly to relocate this inventory to other regions. In order to minimize exposure to this risk, Timberline Drilling works closely with its customers to anticipate and plan for scheduled reductions in their drilling programs. Timberline Drilling’s operations in foreign countries expose us to a variety of political and business risks. Timberline Drilling has operations in Mexico. With this comes the risk of dealing in a variety of business and political jurisdictions. The risks include, but are not limited to, political instability and violence, terrorism, military repression, extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates, labor unrest, changing fiscal regions, changes to royalty and tax regions, uncertainty regarding enforceability of contractual rights and judgments, and high rates of inflation. Changes in resource development or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in Mexico may adversely affect our business. Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. The effect of these factors cannot be pred icted. The availability of an adequate workforce cannot be guaranteed and may affect our ability to timely and profitably fulfill our contracts. From time to time our industry has experienced a shortage of qualified drillers. The industry has gone through downturns that saw many qualified drillers move to other industries. The demand for similar skilled workers in the mining, oil and gas and construction industries also adds to the shortage of qualified people for the drilling services business. Timberline Drilling has implemented a number of initiatives to retain existing employees and attract new employees, but cannot guarantee that an adequate workforce will be available in the future to meet Timberline Drilling’s needs. Reliance on key accounts. Timberline Drilling has a number of accounts that make up the majority of overall revenue and gross profits. When a contract expires or is terminated there is no guarantee that Timberline Drilling has sufficient replacement contracts. Timberline Drilling continues to work with its existing client base and is actively pursuing new clients in order to minimize exposure in this area. Fluctuations in business costs may affect the profitability of long term contracts. Timberline Drilling may enter into long term contracts with customers at fixed prices. Timberline Drilling’s expenses may vary significantly over a contract period due to fluctuations in the cost of labor, and materials and equipment, consequently creating variations in the profitability of these contracts with fixed prices. Timberline Drilling mitigates this risk by anticipating an escalation in costs when bidding on projects or providing for cost escalation in the contract. However, significant price fluctuations without warning could negatively impact Timberline Drilling’s margins. Extreme weather conditions in certain areas in which Timberline Drilling operates could impact its operations. Timberline Drilling has operations in the western United States that are subject to extreme weather conditions which can have a significant impact on its operations. In addition, natural and other disasters could have an adverse impact on Timberline Drilling’s operations. Currency fluctuations. The majority of Timberline Drilling’s business is conducted in United States dollars. Timberline Drilling has operations in Mexico and may at times receive payments in foreign currency. This may negatively impact a project’s profitability due to currency exchange volatility. Margin performance however is less affected by currency fluctuations as a large portion of costs are typically in the same currency as revenues. In order to reduce its exposure to foreign exchange risks Timberline Drilling contracts primarily in U.S. dollars. We have been assessed penalties for payroll taxes at Timberline Drilling for the late payment of payroll taxes from the period of October 1, 2007 through May 15, 2008. We have received notice from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) that Timberline Drilling has been assessed late filing penalties for payroll taxes not paid on a timely basis during the period from October 1, 2007 through May 15, 2008. We have confirmed that the IRS has now assessed all penalties for the late payment of payroll taxes for all quarterly periods prior to December 31, 2008 and no additional penalties will be assessed against Timberline Drilling relating to unpaid payroll taxes. We have made timely payments on all payroll taxes since May 15, 2008 and have been paying down the unpaid balance of penalties and interest by $50,000 per month from August 10 2008 through February 2009 and $10,000 per month from April through November 2009, with monthly payments to continue until the outstanding balance is repaid. We have negotiated tacit approval to a payment plan with the IRS relating to the balance of approximately $420,000 in interest and penalties owed by Timberline Drilling on the late payment of payroll taxes. Currently, Timberline Drilling’s assets are subject to a tax lien until all interest and penalties assessed by the IRS are satisfied. If we fail to comply with the negotiated payment plan or are otherwise unable to pay the interest and penalties owed to the IRS, the IRS could force the sale of certain assets of Timberline Drilling to satisfy the interest and penalties due. Risks Associated With Our Common Stock Our stock price has been volatile and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. Our common stock is traded on the NYSE Amex. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include price fluctuations of precious metals, government regulations, disputes regarding mining claims, broad stock market fluctuations and economic conditions in the United States. Because we do not intend to pay any dividends on our common shares, investors seeking dividend income or liquidity should not purchase our shares. We do not currently anticipate declaring and paying dividends to our shareholders in the near future. It is our current intention to apply net earnings, if any, in the foreseeable future to increasing our working capital. Prospective investors seeking or needing dividend income or liquidity should, therefore, not purchase our common stock. While our wholly owned drilling subsidiary provides revenues, we currently have no revenues and a history of losses from our exploration activity, so there can be no assurance that we will ever have sufficient earnings to declare and pay dividends to the holders of our shares, and in any event, a decision to declare and pay dividends is at the sole discretion of our board of directors, who currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common shares for the foreseeable future. We may lose our listing on the NYSE Amex and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. On February 13, 2009, we received a notice from the NYSE Amex indicating that we were not in compliance with Section 1003(a)(ii) of the NYSE Amex Company Guide (which we refer to as the “Company Guide”) due to our stockholders’ equity being less than $4,000,000 and our having losses from continuing operations and net losses in three of our four most recent fiscal years and Section 1003(a)(iii) of the Company Guide due to our stockholders’ equity being less than $6,000,000 and our having losses from continuing operations and net losses in our five most recent fiscal years. Therefore we have become subject to Section 1009 of the Company Guide regarding continued listing evaluations. In order to maintain our NYSE Amex listing, we were required to submit a plan of compliance to the NYSE Amex by March 13, 2009 (which we refer to as the Plan), addressing how we intend to regain compliance with Sections 1003(a)(ii) and 1003(a)(iii) of the Company Guide within a maximum of 18 months (which we refer to as the Plan Period). We filed the Plan with the NYSE Amex on March 13, 2009. The NYSE Amex Corporate Compliance Department management evaluated the Plan, and on May 4, 2009 we were informed that the Plan was accepted by the NYSE Amex and our Plan Period will end on August 13, 2010. Although the Plan was accepted and we are able to continue our listing during the Plan Period, we will be subject to periodic review to determine whether we are making progress consistent with the Plan. If we are not in compliance with the continued listing standards at the conclusion of the Plan Period or do not make progress consistent with t he Plan during the Plan Period, we may become subject to delisting proceedings in accordance with Section 1010 and Part 12 of the Company Guide. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to meet all the requirements of the Plan during the Plan Period. If we become subject to delisting proceedings and/or our common stock is delisted from the NYSE Amex our common stock could suffer from decreased liquidity and your investment in our common stock could decrease in value. Shares Eligible for Sale Could Depress the Market for Common Stock Of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock, a large majority of those shares are “restricted securities”. In general, Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (which we refer to as the Securities Act), indicates that a person is entitled to sell restricted shares into the public market if at least six months has passed since the purchase of such shares from the issuer of an affiliate of an issuer, subject to the satisfaction of certain other conditions. A significant number of the “restricted” shares of our common stock outstanding were purchased more than six months ago. Accordingly, those shares are eligible for sale into the public market. Along with this registration statement, we have filed resale registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form S-1/A that were declared effective on October 16, 2008 and August 7, 2009, respectively, as well as on Form S-3 that was decla red effective on August 24, 2009. These registration statements cover a number of shares issued in private placements and underlying warrants from some of these placements. Sales of substantial amounts of those restricted or registered shares, or even the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock, and could impair our ability to raise capital through an offering of our equity securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 11 