Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business that are common to all businesses, important factors that are specific to our industry and our Company could materially impact our future performance and results of operations. We have provided below a list of known material risk factors that should be reviewed when considering our securities. These are not all the risks we face and other factors currently considered immaterial or unknown to us may impact our future operations. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Relating to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Our Business A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow, liquidity or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments and to implement our business strategy. The price we receive for our oil and natural gas production directly affects our revenues, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities and are subject to wide price fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile and will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production and the volume of our production depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the following: • changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil, natural gas and liquefied natural gas; • acts of war, terrorism or political instability in oil producing countries; • economic conditions; • political conditions and events, including embargoes, affecting oil-producing activity; • the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; • the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; • weather conditions; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; and • geographic differences in pricing. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis but may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. For example, the prices of oil and natural gas declined substantially during the second half of 2008 and impacted production volumes. Natural gas prices have been negatively affected by the domestic economy, excess natural gas production, high levels of stored natural gas and weather conditions affecting demand. There have been significant recent development activities in shale and other resource plays, which have the potential to yield a significant amount of natural gas production, as well as natural gas produced in connection with increased domestic oil drilling activities. The potential increases in natural gas supplies resulting from the large-scale development of these unconventional resource reserves could continue to have an adverse impact on the price of natural gas. An environment of depressed oil and natural gas prices would materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. If oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to write down the carrying values and/or the estimates of total reserves of our oil and natural gas properties. Accounting rules applicable to us require that we periodically review the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. Primarily as a result of the significant decline in both oil and natural gas prices as of December 31, 2008, we recorded a ceiling test impairment at December 31, 2008 of $1.2 billion. Additionally, we recorded a ceiling test impairment at March 31, 2009 of $218.9 million primarily 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements as a result of a further decline in natural gas prices as of March 31, 2009. We did not have any impairment write-downs in 2011 or 2010. Declines in oil and natural gas prices after December 31, 2011 may require us to record additional ceiling test impairments in the future. No assurance can be given that we will not experience a ceiling test impairment in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period taken. As a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, we may also reduce our estimates of the reserves that may be economically recovered, which would reduce the total value of our proved reserves. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies – Impairment of oil and natural gas properties in Part II, Item 7 and Financial Statements – Note 1 – Significant Accounting Policies in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information on the ceiling test. The Company is responding to a federal grand jury investigation that could result in penalties and additional operating restrictions. The United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Louisiana, along with the Criminal Investigation Division of the EPA, is conducting a federal grand jury investigation of environmental compliance matters relating to surface discharges and reporting on four of our offshore platforms in the Gulf of Mexico. We are fully cooperating with the investigation. The United States Attorney’s Office has recently informed us that they are continuing their investigation with the intent to seek a criminal disposition. The outcome of this investigation could have a material adverse effect upon us. We are not able at this time to estimate our potential exposure, if any, related to this matter. The Company has been sued by certain landowners alleging damages to their properties. On May 6, 2009, certain Cameron Parish land owners filed suit in the 38th Judicial District Court, Cameron Parish, Louisiana against the Company and Tracy W. Krohn as well as several other defendants unrelated to us. In their lawsuit, plaintiffs are alleging that property they own has been contaminated or otherwise damaged by the defendants’ oil and gas exploration and production activities and are seeking compensatory and punitive damages. We cannot currently estimate our potential exposure, if any, related to this lawsuit. We are currently, and intend to continue, vigorously defending this litigation. BP’s Deepwater Horizon explosion and ensuing oil spill could have broad adverse consequences affecting our operations in the Gulf of Mexico, some of which may be unforeseeable. In April 2010, there was a fire and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling platform operated by BP in the deep water of the Gulf of Mexico. As a result of the explosion and ensuing fire, the rig sank, causing loss of life, and created a major oil spill that produced economic, environmental and natural resource damage in the Gulf Coast region. In response to the explosion and spill, there have been many proposals, and substantial rules adopted, by governmental and private constituencies to address the direct impact of the disaster and to prevent similar disasters in the future. Beginning in May 2010, the BOEM and BSEE issued a series of NTLs imposing a variety of new safety measures and permitting requirements. They also imposed a six-month moratorium on drilling activities in federal offshore waters that stretched into a much longer moratorium resulting in delays in not only deepwater drilling but also in many other types of activities in the Gulf of Mexico that continue to exist currently. In addition to the drilling restrictions, new safety measures and permitting requirements already issued by the BOEM and BSEE, there have been numerous additional proposed changes in laws, regulations, guidance and policy in response to the Deepwater Horizon explosion and oil spill that could affect our operations and cause us to incur substantial losses or expenditures. Implementation of any one or more of the various proposed responses to the disaster could materially adversely affect operations in the Gulf of Mexico by raising operating costs, increasing insurance premiums, delaying drilling operations and increasing regulatory costs, and, further, could lead to a wide variety of other unforeseeable consequences that make operations in the Gulf of Mexico more difficult, more time consuming, and more costly. For example, a variety of amendments to the OPA have been 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements proposed in response to the Deepwater Horizon incident. OPA and regulations adopted pursuant to OPA impose a variety of requirements related to the prevention of and response to oil spills into waters of the United States, including the OCS, which includes the Gulf of Mexico where we have substantial offshore operations. OPA subjects operators of offshore leases and owners and operators of oil handling facilities to strict, joint and several liability for all containment and cleanup costs and certain other damages arising from a spill, including, but not limited to, the costs of responding to a release of oil, natural resource damages, and economic damages suffered by persons adversely affected by an oil spill. OPA also requires operators to provide evidence of financial responsibility to cover costs that could be incurred in responding to an oil spill. We are currently required to demonstrate, on an annual basis, that we have ready access to $150 million that can be used to respond to an oil spill from our facilities on the OCS. Legislation has been proposed in Congress to amend OPA to increase the minimum level of financial responsibility to $300 million or more. If the minimum level of financial responsibility is increased further, we may experience difficulty in providing financial assurances sufficient to comply with the revised requirement. We cannot predict at this time whether OPA will be amended or whether the level of financial responsibility required for companies operating on the OCS will be increased further. After the moratorium ended in 2010, it was not until March 2011 that deep water drilling permits began to be issued, and even then only sporadically, to continue drilling activities that had commenced prior to the Deepwater Horizon incident. Since March 2011, deepwater drilling permits have been issued at a slower and more measured pace than before the Deepwater Horizon event. Other significant regulatory changes since the Deepwater Horizon event are regulations related to assessing the potential environmental impact of future spills using worse case discharge scenarios on a well-by-well basis, spill response documentation, compliance reviews, operator practices related to safety and implementing a safety and environmental management system. The new regulations and increased review process increases the time it takes to obtain drilling permits and increases the cost of operations. As these new regulations and guidance continue to evolve, the risk to our business may be increased. The permitting process is also slow and inconsistent for shallow water work and even for plug and abandonment activities. This could lead to increased costs and performing work at less than optimal effectiveness. We have not experienced delays in obtaining permits related to our onshore operations. Regulatory requirements, NTLs and permitting procedures imposed by the BOEM and BSEE could significantly delay our ability to obtain permits to drill new wells in offshore waters. Subsequent to the BP Deepwater Horizon incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the BOEM and BSEE issued a series of NTLs imposing new requirements and permitting procedures for new wells to be drilled in federal waters of the OCS. These new requirements include the following: • The Environmental NTL, which imposes new and more stringent requirements for documenting the environmental impacts potentially associated with the drilling of a new offshore well and significantly increases oil spill response requirements. • The Compliance and Review NTL, which imposes requirements for operators to secure independent reviews of well design, construction and flow intervention processes, and also requires certifications of compliance from senior corporate officers. • The Drilling Safety Rule, which prescribes tighter cementing and casing practices, imposes standards for the use of drilling fluids to maintain well bore integrity, and stiffens oversight requirements relating to blowout preventers and their components, including shear and pipe rams. • The Workplace Safety Rule, which requires operators to have a comprehensive safety and environmental management system in order to reduce human and organizational errors as root causes of work-related accidents and offshore spills. As a result of the issuance of these new NTLs and the lack of detail therein, the BOEM has been taking much longer to review and approve permits for new wells. Due to the extremely slow pace of permit review and 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements approval, various industry sources have determined that the BOEM may take six months or longer to approve applications for drilling permits that were previously approved in less than 30 days. These NTLs also increase the cost of preparing each permit application and will increase the cost of each new well, particularly for wells drilled in deeper waters on the OCS. The delay in granting permits could also cause some of our leases to lapse as a result of failure to commence drilling or continue production operations. New requirements imposed by the BOEM and BSEE could significantly impact the cost of operating our business. In addition to the NTLs discussed previously, the BOEM issued NTL No. 2010-G05 dated effective October 15, 2010 that establishes a more stringent regimen for the timely decommissioning of what is known as “idle iron” – wells, platforms and pipelines that are no longer producing or serving exploration or support functions related to an operator’s lease – in the Gulf of Mexico. This NTL sets forth more stringent standards for decommissioning timing requirements by requiring that any well that has not been used during the past five years for exploration or production on active leases and is no longer capable of producing in paying quantities must be permanently plugged or temporarily abandoned within three years. Plugging or abandonment of wells may be delayed by two years if all of the well’s hydrocarbon and sulphur zones are appropriately isolated. Similarly, platforms or other facilities that are no longer useful for operations must be removed within five years of the cessation of operations. The triggering of these plugging, abandonment and removal activities under what may be viewed as an accelerated schedule in comparison to historical decommissioning efforts may serve to increase, perhaps materially, our future plugging, abandonment and removal costs, which may translate into a need to increase our estimate of future ARO required to meet such increased costs. For the year 2010, we increased our estimate of ARO by $18.7 million based on our expected acceleration in timing for such obligations as a result of implementing this NTL. (For additional details, refer to Financial Statements – Note 5 – Asset Retirement Obligations in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.) The potential increase in decommissioning activity in the Gulf of Mexico over the next few years as a result of the NTL may result in increased demand for salvage contractors and equipment, resulting in increased estimates of plugging, abandonment and removal costs and increases in related ARO. Recently proposed rules regulating air emissions from oil and gas operations could cause us to incur increased capital expenditures and operating costs. On July 28, 2011, the EPA proposed rules that would establish new air emission controls for oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations. Specifically, EPA’s proposed rule package includes New Source Performance Standards to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and VOCs and a separate set of emission standards to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with oil and natural gas production and processing activities. The EPA’s proposal would require the reduction of VOC emissions from oil and natural gas production facilities by mandating the use of “green completions” for hydraulic fracturing, which requires the operator to recover rather than vent the gas and natural gas liquids that come to the surface during completion of the fracturing process. The proposed rules also would establish specific requirements regarding emissions from compressors, dehydrators, storage tanks, and other production equipment. In addition, the rules would establish new leak detection requirements for natural gas processing plants. The EPA is currently considering comments submitted on the proposed rules and has indicated that it expects to adopt final rules by April 3, 2012. If finalized, these rules could require a number of modifications to our operations including the installation of new equipment. Compliance with such rules could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, and could adversely impact our operating results. We were adversely affected by a recession in the United States and global economy. The United States and other world economies are slowly recovering from a recession which began in 2008 and extended into 2009. The recession that began in 2008 caused a collapse in oil and natural gas prices resulting in write-downs of the value of our reserves at the end of 2008 and early 2009. These write-downs significantly reduced our stockholders’ equity, increased our financial leverage, reduced the market value of our common 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements stock and reduced the market value of our long-term debt. There are likely to be long-term effects resulting from the recession, the credit market crisis and the recent issues concerning the Euro and the debt of certain European countries. These and other factors may cause future economic growth rate to be slower than what was experienced before the recession began. In addition, more volatility may occur before a sustainable, yet lower, growth rate is achieved. A lower future economic growth rate could result in decreased demand growth for our oil and natural gas production as well as lower commodity prices, which could reduce our cash flows from operations and our profitability. Lower oil and natural gas prices could negatively impact our ability to borrow. As of December 31, 2011, available borrowings under our revolving bank credit facility are currently limited to $575.0 million, less outstanding borrowings and letters of credit. Availability is determined semi-annually by our lenders and is based in part on oil and natural gas prices and in part on our proved reserves. Substantially all of our oil and natural gas properties are pledged as collateral under the credit agreement governing our revolving bank credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”). The Credit Agreement limits our ability to incur additional indebtedness based on specified financial covenants, ratios or other criteria. Lower oil and natural gas prices in the future could result in a reduction in credit availability and also affect our ability to satisfy these covenants, ratios or other criteria and thus could reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness and our ability to replace reserves. Losses and liabilities from uninsured or underinsured drilling and operating activities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. We could be exposed to uninsured losses in the future. The occurrence of a significant accident or other event not covered in whole or in part by our insurance could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operations. Our insurance does not protect us against all operational risks. We do not carry business interruption insurance. In May and June 2011, we renewed our insurance policies covering well control and hurricane damage at an annual cost of approximately $30.7 million. The amount of properties covered and dollar coverage was increased from 2010, but the retention amount per hurricane occurrence was also increased, which increases our risk. In addition, pollution and environmental risks are generally not fully insurable. Because third-party drilling contractors are used to drill our wells, we may not realize the full benefit of workmen’s compensation laws in dealing with their employees. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. See Financial Statements – Note 3 – Hurricane Remediation and Insurance Claims under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information. Insurance for well control and hurricane damage may become significantly more expensive for less coverage, and some losses currently covered by insurance may not be covered in the future. Due to insurance claims in recent years associated with hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico and global catastrophic losses, property damage and well control insurance coverage has become more limited and the cost of such coverage has become both more costly and more volatile. The insurance market may change dramatically in the future due to the major oil spill that occurred in 2010 at BP’s Macondo well in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 93% of our PV-10 value of proved reserves attributable to our Gulf of Mexico properties are on platforms that are covered under our current insurance policies for named windstorm damage. Our insurers may not continue to offer this type and level of coverage to us, our costs may increase substantially as a result of increased premiums and the losses that may have been previously insured may no longer be insured. The occurrence of any or all of these possibilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are also exposed to the possibility that in the future we will be unable to buy insurance at any price or that if we do have a claim, the insurance companies will not pay our claim. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Commodity derivative positions may limit our potential gains. In order to manage our exposure to price risk in the marketing of our oil and natural gas, we may periodically enter into oil and natural gas price commodity derivative positions with respect to a portion of our expected production. We do not enter into derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes. While these commodity derivative positions are intended to reduce the effects of volatile oil and natural gas prices, they may also limit future income if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by such positions. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • our production is less than expected; • there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery points assumed in the hedge arrangements; or • the counterparties to the derivative contracts fail to perform under the terms of the contracts. See Financial Statements – Note 6 – Derivative Financial Instruments under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information on derivative transactions. We may be limited in our ability to maintain proved undeveloped reserves under current SEC guidance. Current SEC guidance requires proved undeveloped reserves may only be classified as such if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. This rule may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program. Further, if we postpone drilling of proved undeveloped reserves beyond this five-year development horizon, we may have to write off reserves previously recognized as proved undeveloped. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 35% of our total proved reserves were undeveloped and approximately 19% of our total proved reserves were developed non-producing. There can be no assurance that all of those reserves will ultimately be developed or produced. We are not the operator with respect to approximately 10% of our proved developed non-producing reserves, so we may not be in a position to control the timing of all development activities. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that all of our undeveloped and developed non-producing reserves will ultimately be produced during the time periods we have planned, at the costs we have budgeted, or at all, which could result in the write-off of previously recognized reserves. If we are not able to replace reserves, we may not be able to sustain production. Our future success depends largely upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Unless we replace the reserves we produce through successful development, exploration or acquisition activities, our proved reserves and production will decline over time. By their nature, estimates of undeveloped reserves are less certain. Recovery of undeveloped reserves could require significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Our future oil and natural gas reserves, production, and therefore our cash flow and net income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. Relatively short production periods for our Gulf of Mexico properties subject us to high reserve replacement needs and require significant capital expenditures to replace our reserves at a faster rate than companies whose reserves have longer production periods. Our failure to replace those reserves would result in decreasing reserves, production and cash flows over time. Unless we conduct successful development and exploration activities at sufficient levels or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing oil and natural gas reserves are generally characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements reservoir characteristics and other factors. High production rates generally result in recovery of a relatively higher percentage of reserves during the initial few years of production. The majority of our current production is from the Gulf of Mexico. Production from reservoirs in the Gulf of Mexico generally decline more rapidly than from reservoirs in many other producing regions of the United States. Our independent petroleum consultant estimates that, on average, 43% of our total proved reserves are depleted within three years. As a result, our need to replace reserves and production from new investments is relatively greater than that of producers who recover lower percentages of their reserves over a similar time period, such as those producers who have a larger portion of their reserves in areas other than the Gulf of Mexico. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves in sufficient quantities to sustain our current production levels or to grow production beyond current levels. In addition, due to the significant time requirements involved with exploration and development activities, particularly for wells in the deepwater or wells not located near existing infrastructure, actual oil and natural gas production from new wells may not occur, if at all, for a considerable period of time following the commencement of any particular project. Significant capital expenditures are required to replace our reserves. Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures and acquisitions with cash on hand, cash provided by operating activities, securities offerings and bank borrowings. In order to finance future capital expenditures, we may need to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of additional debt or equity securities, bank borrowings, reserve-based loans, joint ventures or other means. These changes in capitalization may significantly affect our financial risk profile. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, the prices of oil and natural gas, and our success in developing and producing new reserves. Any reductions in our capital expenditures to stay within internally generated cash flow (which could be adversely affected by declining commodity prices) and cash on hand will make replacing produced reserves more difficult. If our cash flow from operations and cash on hand are not sufficient to fund our capital expenditure budget, we may not be able to access additional debt, equity or other methods of financing on an economic or timely basis to replace our proved reserves. Competition for oil and natural gas properties and prospects is intense; some of our competitors have larger financial, technical and personnel resources that may give them an advantage in evaluating and obtaining properties and prospects. We operate in a highly competitive environment for reviewing prospects, acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors have financial resources that allow them to obtain substantially greater technical expertise and personnel than we have. We actively compete with other companies in our industry when acquiring new leases or oil and natural gas properties. For example, new leases acquired from the BOEM are acquired through a “sealed bid” process and are generally awarded to the highest bidder. Our competitors may be able to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our competitors may also be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects than we are able or willing to pay. On the acquisition opportunities made available to us, we compete with other companies in our industry for such properties through a private bidding process, direct negotiations or some combination thereof. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas in the future, our future revenues and growth may be diminished or restricted. The availability of properties for acquisition depends largely on the divesting practices of other oil and natural gas companies, commodity prices, general economic conditions and other factors we cannot control or influence. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We conduct exploration, development and production operations on the deep shelf and in the deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico, which presents unique operating risks. The deep shelf and the deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico are areas that have had less drilling activity due, in part, to their geological complexity, depth and higher cost to drill and ultimately develop. There are additional risks associated with deep shelf and deepwater drilling that could result in substantial cost overruns and/or result in uneconomic projects or wells. Deeper targets are more difficult to interpret with traditional seismic processing. Moreover, drilling costs and the risk of mechanical failure are significantly higher because of the additional depth and adverse conditions, such as high temperature and pressure. For example, the drilling of deepwater wells requires specific types of rigs with significantly higher day rates and limited availability, as compared to the rigs used in shallower water. Deepwater wells have greater mechanical risks because the wellhead equipment is installed on the sea floor. Deepwater development costs can be significantly higher than development costs for wells drilled on the conventional shelf because deepwater drilling requires larger installation equipment, sophisticated sea floor production handling equipment, expensive, state-of-the-art platforms and/or investment in infrastructure. Deep shelf development can also be more expensive than conventional shelf projects because deep shelf development requires more drilling days and higher drilling and service costs due to extreme pressure and temperatures associated with greater depths. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our oil and natural gas exploration activities in the deep shelf, the deepwater and elsewhere will be commercially successful. Our estimates of future asset retirement obligations may vary significantly from period to period and are especially significant because our operations are concentrated in the Gulf of Mexico. We are required to record a liability for the present value of our ARO to plug and abandon inactive, non-producing wells, to remove inactive or damaged platforms, facilities and equipment, and to restore the land or seabed at the end of oil and natural gas production operations. These costs are typically considerably more expensive for offshore operations as compared to most land-based operations due to increased regulatory scrutiny and the logistical issues associated with working in waters of various depths. Estimating future restoration and removal costs in the Gulf of Mexico is especially difficult because most of the removal obligations may be many years in the future, regulatory requirements are subject to change or more restrictive interpretation, and asset removal technologies are constantly evolving, which may result in additional or increased costs. As a result, we may make significant increases or decreases to our estimated ARO in future periods. For example, because we operate in the Gulf of Mexico, platforms, facilities and equipment are subject to damage or destruction as a result of hurricanes. The estimated cost to plug and abandon a well or dismantle a platform can change dramatically if the host platform from which the work was anticipated to be performed is damaged or toppled rather than structurally intact. Accordingly, our estimate of future ARO could differ dramatically from what we may ultimately incur as a result of platform damage. As described above in the risk factor titled “New requirements recently imposed by the BOEM and BSEE could significantly impact the cost of operating our business,” the BOEM’s NTL 2010-G05 increased our liability for ARO by accelerating the time frame for plugging, abandonment and removal for some of our platforms. In addition, the potential increase in decommissioning activity in the Gulf of Mexico over the next several years as a result of the NTL could likely result in increased demand for salvage contractors and equipment, resulting in increased estimates of plugging, abandonment and removal costs and increases in related ARO. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may not be in a position to control the timing of development efforts, associated costs or the rate of production of the reserves from our non-operated properties. As we carry out our drilling program, we may not serve as operator of all planned wells. We have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of some non-operated properties and their associated costs. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners and our limited ability to influence operations and associated costs of properties operated by others could prevent the realization of anticipated results in drilling or acquisition activities. The success and timing of exploration and development activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including: • the timing and amount of capital expenditures; • the availability of suitable offshore drilling rigs, drilling equipment, support vessels, production and transportation infrastructure and qualified operating personnel; • the operator’s expertise and financial resources; • approval of other participants in drilling wells and such participants’ financial resources; • selection of technology; and • the rate of production of the reserves. Our business involves many uncertainties and operating risks that can prevent us from realizing profits and can cause substantial losses. Our development activities may be unsuccessful for many reasons, including adverse weather conditions (such as hurricanes and tropical storms in the Gulf of Mexico), cost overruns, equipment shortages, geological issues and mechanical difficulties. Moreover, the successful drilling of a natural gas or oil well does not assure us that we will realize a profit on our investment. A variety of factors, both geological and market-related, can cause a well to become uneconomical or only marginally economical. In addition to their costs, unsuccessful wells hinder our efforts to replace reserves. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities, including well stimulation and completion activities which include, among other things, hydraulic fracturing, involve a variety of operating risks, including: • fires; • explosions; • blow-outs and surface cratering; • uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil and formation water; • natural disasters, such as tropical storms, hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions; • inability to obtain insurance at reasonable rates; • failure to receive payment on insurance claims in a timely manner, or for the full amount claimed; • pipe, cement, subsea well or pipeline failures; • casing collapses or failures; • mechanical difficulties, such as lost or stuck oil field drilling and service tools; • abnormally pressured formations or rock compaction; and • environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures, encountering NORM, and discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases, or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we experience any of these problems, well bores, platforms, gathering systems and processing facilities could be affected, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations. We could also incur substantial losses as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution and other environmental damage; • clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigation and penalties; • suspension of our operations; • repairs required to resume operations; and • loss of reserves. Offshore operations are also subject to a variety of operating risks related to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from tropical storms, hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities that could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, development and acquisitions or result in the loss of property and equipment. The geographic concentration of our properties in the Gulf of Mexico subjects us to an increased risk of loss of revenues or curtailment of production from factors specifically affecting the Gulf of Mexico. The geographic concentration of our properties along the U.S. Gulf Coast and adjacent waters on and beyond the outer continental shelf means that some or all of our properties could be affected by the same event should the Gulf of Mexico experience: • severe weather, including tropical storms and hurricanes; • delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities or services; • changes in the status of pipelines that we depend on for transportation of our production to the marketplace; • delays or decreases in the availability of capacity to transport, gather or process production; or • changes in the regulatory environment. Because a majority of our properties could experience the same conditions at the same time, these conditions could have a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other operators who have properties over a wider geographic area. For example, in 2009, net production of approximately 8.7 Bcfe was deferred as a result of damage caused primarily by Hurricane Ike. As we increase our onshore operations, we will be subject to different risk factors that could impact loss of revenues or curtailment of production for these geographies. Onshore oil and gas exploration and production operations share similar risk factors to offshore, but also have some different regulations, interpretation of regulations and enforcement by the particular state in which the operations are conducted. Until 2011, our experience has primarily been with offshore operations. We are subject to and must comply with the various state regulations and work effectively with the state agencies, and failure to do so may impact our operations. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight rock formations. We utilize hydraulic fracturing techniques in connection with developing our recently acquired Yellow Rose Properties and other properties. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. The EPA, however, recently asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel under the SDWA Underground Injection Control Program and has begun the process of drafting guidance documents on regulating requirements for companies that plan to conduct hydraulic fracturing using diesel fuel. In addition, a number of federal agencies are analyzing a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing activities, with initial results expected to be available by late 2012 and final results by 2014. A number of other federal agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy, Department of Interior, and White House Council on Environmental Quality, are also studying various aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These studies, depending on their results, could spur initiatives to regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or otherwise. Legislation also has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. In addition, some states and local governments have adopted, and other states and local governments are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations, including states in which we operate. For example, effective February 1, 2012, the RRC began requiring all operators to disclose on a public website the chemical ingredients and water volumes used to hydraulically fracture wells in Texas. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting requirements, and also to associated permitting delays and potential increases in costs. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves. Properties that we acquire may not produce as projected and we may be unable to immediately identify liabilities associated with these properties or obtain protection from sellers against them. Our business strategy includes a continuing acquisition program, which may include acquisitions of exploration and production companies, producing properties and undeveloped leasehold interests. Our acquisition of oil and natural gas properties requires assessments of many factors that are inherently inexact and may be inaccurate, including the following: • acceptable prices for available properties; • amounts of recoverable reserves; • estimates of future oil, NGLs and natural gas prices; • estimates of future exploratory, development and operating costs; • estimates of the costs and timing of plugging and abandonment; and • estimates of potential environmental and other liabilities. Our assessment of the acquired properties will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become familiar enough with the properties to fully assess their capabilities and deficiencies. In the course of our due diligence, we have historically not physically inspected every well, platform or pipeline. Even if we had physically inspected each of these, our inspections may not have revealed structural and environmental problems, such as pipeline corrosion or groundwater contamination. We may not be able to obtain contractual 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements indemnities from the seller for liabilities associated with such risks. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations. We may encounter difficulties integrating the operations of newly acquired oil and natural gas properties or businesses. Increasing our reserve base through acquisitions is an important part of our business strategy. We may encounter difficulties integrating the operations of newly acquired oil and natural gas properties or businesses. In particular, we may face significant challenges in consolidating functions and integrating procedures, personnel and operations in an effective manner. The failure to successfully integrate such properties or businesses into our business may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any acquisition we make may involve numerous risks, including: • a significant increase in our indebtedness and working capital requirements; • the inability to timely and effectively integrate the operations of recently acquired businesses or assets; • the incurrence of substantial unforeseen environmental and other liabilities arising out of the acquired businesses or assets, including liabilities arising from the operation of the acquired businesses or assets before our acquisition; • our lack of drilling history in the geographic areas in which the acquired business operates; • customer or key employee loss from the acquired business; • increased administration of new personnel; • additional costs due to increased scope and complexity of our operations; and • potential disruption of our ongoing business. Additionally, significant acquisitions can change the nature of our operations and business depending upon the character of the acquired properties, which may have substantially different operating and geological characteristics or be in different geographic locations than our existing properties. To the extent that we acquire properties substantially different from the properties in our primary operating region or acquire properties that require different technical expertise, we may not be able to realize the economic benefits of these acquisitions as efficiently as with acquisitions within our primary operating region. We may not be successful in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisition we may make. Estimates of our proved reserves depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in the estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities of and present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and the calculation of the present value of our reserves at December 31, 2011. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies – Oil and natural gas reserve quantities, Part II, Item 7 for a discussion of the estimates and assumptions about our estimated oil and natural gas reserves information reported in Business in Part I, Item 1, Properties in Part I, Item 2 and Financial Statements – Note 22 – Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosures in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. In order to prepare our year-end reserve estimates, our independent petroleum consultant projected our production rates and timing of development expenditures. Our independent petroleum consultant also analyzed available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements can vary and may not be under our control. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Therefore, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will most likely vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, our independent petroleum consultant may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, drilling results, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved oil and natural gas reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the 12-month unweighted first-day-of-the-month average price for each product and costs in effect on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercial quantities or quantities sufficient to meet our targeted rate of return. A prospect is an area of land in which we own an interest, could acquire an interest or have operating rights, and have what our geoscientists believe, based on available seismic and geological information, to be indications of economic accumulations of oil or natural gas. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a prospect that is ready to be drilled to a prospect that will require substantial seismic data processing and interpretation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling and completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analysis we perform using data from other wells, more fully explored prospects and/or producing fields will accurately predict the characteristics and potential reserves associated with our drilling prospects. To the extent we drill additional wells in the deepwater and/or on the deep shelf, our drilling activities could become more expensive. In addition, the geological complexity of deepwater, deep shelf and various onshore formations may make it more difficult for us to sustain our historical rates of drilling success. As a result, we can offer no assurance that we will find commercial quantities of oil and natural gas and, therefore, we can offer no assurance that we will achieve positive rates of return on our investments. Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends substantially on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities, which in most cases are owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We may be required to shut in wells because of a reduction in demand for our production or because of inadequacy or unavailability of pipelines or gathering system capacity. If that were to occur, then we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until arrangements were made to deliver our production to market. We have, in the past, been required to shut in wells when hurricanes have caused or threatened damage to pipelines and gathering stations. For example, in September 2008, as a result of Hurricane Ike, two of our operated platforms and eight non-operated platforms were toppled and a number of platforms, third-party pipelines and processing facilities upon which we depend to deliver our production to the marketplace were damaged. 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In some cases, our wells are tied back to platforms owned by parties who do not have an economic interest in our wells and we cannot be assured that such parties will continue to process our oil and natural gas. Currently, a portion of our oil and natural gas is processed for sale on platforms owned by parties with no economic interest in our wells and no other processing facilities would be available to process such oil and natural gas without significant investment by us. In addition, third-party platforms could be damaged or destroyed by hurricanes which could reduce or eliminate our ability to market our production. As of December 31, 2011, four fields, accounting for approximately 2.2 Bcfe (or 2%) of our 2011 production, are tied back or are planned to be tied back to separate, third-party owned platforms. There can be no assurance that the owners of such platforms will continue to process our oil and natural gas production. If any of these platform operators ceases to operate their processing equipment, we may be required to shut in the associated wells. If third-party pipelines connected to our facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport our natural gas or oil, or if the prices charged by these third-party pipelines increase, our revenues or costs could be adversely affected. We depend upon third-party pipelines that provide delivery options from our facilities. Because we do not own or operate these pipelines, their continued operation is not within our control. If any of these third-party pipelines become partially or fully unavailable to transport natural gas and oil, or if the gas quality specification for the natural gas pipelines changes so as to restrict our ability to transport natural gas on those pipelines, our revenues could be adversely affected. For example, a third-party pipeline used by our Main Pass 108 field was shutdown between June 2010 and March 2011. We estimate this shutdown caused us to defer production of approximately 4.9 Bcfe during 2010 and 3.7 Bcfe during 2011. Certain third-party pipelines have submitted or have made plans to submit requests to increase the fees they charge us to use these pipelines. These increased fees could adversely impact our revenues or operating costs, either of which would adversely impact our operating profits and cash flows. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations and facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the exploration, development, production and transportation of oil and natural gas and operational safety. Future laws or regulations, any adverse change in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations or our failure to comply with such legal requirements may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to make large and unanticipated capital expenditures to comply with governmental regulations, such as: • land use restrictions; • lease permit restrictions; • drilling bonds and other financial responsibility requirements, such as plugging and abandonment bonds; • spacing of wells; • unitization and pooling of properties; • safety precautions; • operational reporting; • reporting of natural gas sales for resale; and • taxation. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for: • personal injuries; • property and natural resource damages; • well site reclamation costs; and • governmental sanctions, such as fines and penalties. Our operations could be significantly delayed or curtailed and our cost of operations could significantly increase as a result of regulatory requirements or restrictions. We are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. It is also possible that a portion of our oil and natural gas properties could be subject to eminent domain proceedings or other government takings for which we may not be adequately compensated. See Business – Regulation, Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K for a more detailed explanation of our regulatory risks. Our operations may incur substantial liabilities to comply with environmental laws and regulations. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations: • require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences; • restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit exploration or drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas or that may affect certain wildlife, including marine mammals; and • impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in: • the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties; • loss of our leases; • incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations; and • the imposition of injunctive relief. We are currently under investigation by the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Louisiana, along with the Criminal Investigation Division of the EPA for alleged violations of environmental laws and regulations. See Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3 in this Form 10-K for additional information. Also, in prior years, we have been subject to investigation with respect to allegations that we did not comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Resolution of these matters has required management time and expense. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our industry in general and on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Under these environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination, regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination and regardless of whether our operations met previous standards in the industry at the time they were conducted. Our permits require that we report any incidents that cause or could cause environmental damages. See Business – Regulation, Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K for a more detailed description of our environmental risks. 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on its findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the CAA. The EPA recently adopted two sets of rules regulating greenhouse gas emissions under the CAA, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of greenhouse gases from certain large stationary sources, effective January 2, 2011. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States, including petroleum refineries, on an annual basis, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring after January 1, 2010, as well as certain onshore oil and natural gas production facilities, on an annual basis, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. In addition, the United States Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall greenhouse gas emission reduction goal. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. If any such affects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Please see – Our business involves many uncertainties and operating risks that can prevent us from realizing profits and can cause substantial losses. Implementation of financial reform legislation and regulations could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the negative effect of commodity price changes, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ( the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was adopted in July 2010, which, among other provisions, establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. The law required the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and the SEC to implement rules and regulations within 360 days from the date of enactment. In December 2011, the CFTC extended temporary exemptive relief from regulations on certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act applicable to swaps until no later than July 16, 2012. In its rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC has issued final regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions are exempt from these position limits. It is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will make these regulations effective. The financial reform legislation may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. The legislation and regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We operate a production platform in a highly regulated National Marine Sanctuary, which increases our compliance costs and subjects us to risk of significant fines and penalties if we do not maintain rigorous compliance. Our oil and natural gas operations include a production platform located in a National Marine Sanctuary in the Gulf of Mexico that is subject to special federal laws and regulations. Unique regulations related to operations in the Sanctuary include, among other things, prohibition of drilling activities within certain protected areas, restrictions on substances that may be discharged, depths of discharge in connection with drilling and production activities and limitations on mooring of vessels. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations or the imposition of injunctive relief, including cessation of production from wells associated with this platform. Our operations could be adversely impacted by security breaches, including cyber-security breaches, which could affect our production of oil and natural gas or could affect other parts of our business. We face security exposure, including cyber-security exposure, from unauthorized access to our facilities and computer systems. This exposure includes unauthorized access to sensitive information; malicious damage to our facilities, infrastructure, and computer systems; malicious damage to third-party facilities, infrastructure, and computer systems; safety exposure for our employees and contractors; and disruptions of our operations. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to mitigate these exposures, there can be no assurances that these procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent such events from occurring. Cyber-security exposures in particular are evolving and include malicious software, unauthorized access to confidential data and disruptions to operations that use computers and data systems. We do not carry business interruption insurance. Any of these security breaches could have a material adverse affect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The loss of members of our senior management could adversely affect us. To a large extent, we depend on the services of our senior management. The loss of the services of any of our senior management, including Tracy W. Krohn, our Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Jamie L. Vazquez, our President; John D. Gibbons, our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer; Stephen L. Schroeder, our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Jesus G. Melendrez, our Senior Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, and Thomas F. Getten, our Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, could have a negative impact on our operations. We do not maintain or plan to obtain any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. Please read Executive Officers of the Registrant in Part I following Item 3 in this Form 10-K for more information regarding our senior management team. 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. The U.S. oil and natural gas industry may experience significant shortages in the availability of certain drilling rigs as well as significant increases in the cost of utilizing drilling rigs. This could delay or adversely affect our exploration and development operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If the unavailability or high cost of rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel were particularly severe in the offshore waters of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico or Texas, we could be materially and adversely affected because our operations and properties are concentrated in those areas. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to U.S. federal income tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax preferences currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for United States production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of this legislation or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and production, and any such change could have a negative effect on the results of our operations. Counterparty credit risk may negatively impact the conversion of our accounts receivables to cash. Substantially all of our accounts receivable result from oil, NGLs and natural gas sales or joint interest billings to third parties in the energy industry. This concentration of customers and joint interest owners may impact our overall credit risk in that these entities may be similarly affected by any adverse changes in economic or other conditions. In recent years, market conditions resulting in downgrades to credit ratings of energy merchants affected the liquidity of several of our purchasers. Risks Related to Financings Adverse changes in the financial and credit markets could negatively impact our economic growth. In addition, declines of oil, NGLs and natural gas prices can affect our ability to obtain funding, obtain funding on acceptable terms or obtain funding under our current credit facility. These impacts may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs and may restrict or limit our ability to increase reserves of oil and natural gas. For 2011 and 2012 to date, world financial markets have been affected by the instability of the Euro and the uncertainty of some Euro-based countries to repay their debt. In addition, one credit agency downgraded the debt of the U.S. government. These types of events bring uncertainty to the financial markets and may produce volatility and may decrease financing availability. In recent years, access to financing markets was severely limited. For example, in 2009, the global financial markets and economic conditions were severely distressed. There were concerns, both with respect to bank failures and bank liquidity, as to whether our banks would be able to meet their commitments under credit arrangements in place during that time. These concerns led to very few financing transactions being completed. In addition, prices for oil, NGLs and natural gas had decreased from 2008. 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We can offer no assurance that we would be able to access the capital market on terms and conditions that would be acceptable to us, if the need were to arise. Our revolving bank credit facility is subject to semi-annual borrowing base determination, and available credit could be reduced or eliminated at the sole discretion of the banks within the facility. If funding is not available as needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due, or we may be unable to implement our exploratory and development plan, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and results of operations. We may not be able to generate enough cash flow to meet our debt obligations. We expect our earnings and cash flow to vary significantly from year to year due to the cyclical nature of our industry. As a result, the amount of debt that we can manage in some periods may not be appropriate for us in other periods. In addition, our future cash flow may become insufficient to meet our debt obligations and commitments. Any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. A range of economic, competitive, business and industry factors will affect our future financial performance, and, as a result, our ability to generate cash flow from operations and to pay off our outstanding indebtedness. Many of these factors, such as oil and natural gas prices, economic and financial conditions in our industry and the global economy or initiatives by our competitors, are beyond our control. If we do not generate enough cash flow from operations to satisfy our current or any future debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as: • refinancing or restructuring our debt; • selling assets; • reducing or delaying capital investments; or • seeking to raise additional capital. Any alternative financing plans that we undertake, if necessary, may not allow us to meet our debt obligations. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to obtain alternative financing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our debt obligations could have important consequences. For example, they could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to fund future working capital requirements and capital expenditures, to engage in future acquisitions or development activities, or to otherwise realize the value of our assets; • limit our opportunities because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments of interest and principal on our debt obligations or to comply with any restrictive terms of our debt obligations; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. In addition, if we fail to comply with the covenants or other terms of any agreements governing our debt, our lenders will have the right to accelerate the maturity of that debt and foreclose upon the collateral, if any, securing that debt. Realization of any of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Related to Our Principal Shareholder, Tracy W. Krohn We will be controlled by Tracy W. Krohn as long as he owns a majority of our outstanding common stock, and other shareholders will be unable to affect the outcome of shareholder voting during that time. This control may adversely affect the value of our common stock and inhibit potential changes of control. Tracy W. Krohn controls 39,206,962 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 52.7% of our voting interests as of February 17, 2012. As a result, Mr. Krohn has the ability to control the outcome of matters that require a simple majority of shareholders for approval and other investors, by themselves, will not be able to affect the outcome of virtually any shareholder vote. Mr. Krohn, subject to any duty owed to our minority shareholders under Texas law, is able to control all matters affecting us, including: • the composition of our board of directors and, through it, any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; • the determination of incentive compensation, which may affect our ability to retain key employees; • any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations; • our acquisition or disposition of assets; • our financing decisions and our capital raising activities; • our payment of dividends on our common stock; and • amendments to our amended and restated articles of incorporation or bylaws. Mr. Krohn is generally not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party. In addition, his concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that might be beneficial to our business or stockholders. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Due to Mr. Krohn’s ownership and control, we are exempted from many New York Stock Exchange corporate governance rules, and, as a result, our other shareholders may not have the protections set forth in those rules, particularly in the event of conflicts of interest with Mr. Krohn. Mr. Krohn owns a majority of our common stock, and, therefore, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). As such, we are not required to comply with certain corporate governance rules of the NYSE that would otherwise apply to us as a listed company on that exchange. These rules are generally intended to increase the likelihood that boards will make decisions in the best interests of shareholders. Should the interests of Mr. Krohn differ from those of other shareholders, the other shareholders will not be afforded the protections of having a majority of directors on the board who are independent from our principal shareholder. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 