Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating our business, every investor should carefully consider the following risks. Our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks. Our Business is Concentrated Geographically and Dependent on Regional Economic Conditions. Our business is conducted primarily in north central Alabama, Maine and central Missouri and, accordingly, our business is dependent upon the general economic conditions of these regions. There can be no assurance that future economic conditions in these regions will not impact demand for our services or cause residents to relocate to other regions, which may adversely impact our business, revenue and cash flow. The Telecommunications Industry has Experienced Increased Competition. Although we have historically experienced no wireline telephone competition in our rural local exchange carrier territories, the market for telecommunications services is highly competitive. Certain competitors benefit from brand recognition and financial, personnel, marketing and other resources that are significantly greater than ours. We cannot predict the number of competitors that will emerge, especially as a result of existing or new federal and state regulatory or legislative actions. Increased competition from existing and new entities could have an adverse effect on our business, revenue and cash flow. 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS In our markets, we face competition from wireless carriers. We believe that we have experienced a decrease in our minutes of use, primarily due to flat rate “free minutes and long distance calling” offers from wireless carriers. Our unlimited calling bundles provide our customers with an alternative to using cell phones. As wireless carriers continue to build-out their networks, we may experience increased competition, which could have an adverse effect on our business, revenue and cash flow. Our current and potential competitors in our RLEC territories could include competitive local exchange carriers and other providers of telecommunications and information services, including Internet and voice over Internet protocol, or VoIP, service providers, wireless carriers, satellite television companies, alternate access providers, neighboring incumbent local exchange carriers, long distance companies, electric utilities and cable television companies that may provide services competitive with those products and services that we provide or intend to provide. In Maine, our competitive local exchange carrier operations may encounter a change in the competitive landscape that would impact its continued ability to grow and/or retain customers, sustain current pricing plans, and control the cost of access to incumbent carrier customers. We do not know what impact the merger of Verizon’s holdings in Maine with Fairpoint Communications, Inc. will have on our competitive business, although the MPUC has established requirements for Fairpoint that are intended to retain a competitive environment. Although our long distance operations have historically been modest in relation to our competitors, we intend to continue to expand our long distance business within our territories, through marketing to our existing telephone services customers and bundling long distance with other local services. Our existing long distance competitors could respond to such initiatives, including those with significantly greater resources than us. New competitors continue to enter the market with attractive offerings. There can be no assurance that our local services revenue, including long distance services, will not decrease in the future as competition and/or the cost of providing services increase. The FCC has adopted regulations requiring wireline telephone carriers to provide portability of telephone numbers to wireless carriers when a customer substitutes wireless service for wireline service. We have implemented the changes necessary to support these regulations. Wireline to wireless portability may enhance the competitive position of wireless carriers. We May Not be Able to Integrate New Technologies and Provide New Services in a Cost-Efficient Manner. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, frequent new service introductions and evolving industry standards. We cannot predict the effect of these changes on our competitive position, our profitability or the industry generally. Technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of our networks and require additional capital expenditures or the procurement of additional products that could be expensive and time consuming. In addition, new products and services arising out of technological developments may reduce the attractiveness of our services. If we fail to adapt successfully to technological advances or fail to obtain access to new technologies, we could lose customers and be limited in our ability to attract new customers and/or sell new services to our existing customers. In addition, delivery of new services in a cost-efficient manner depends upon many factors, and we may not generate anticipated revenue from such services. We May Have Difficulty Acquiring Businesses, Managing Growth and Integrating Acquired Businesses. We have grown rapidly by acquiring other similar businesses. Since 1999, we have acquired and operate six rural local exchange carriers and a competitive local exchange carrier. We face competition acquiring carriers, including from businesses that are larger or have access to more financing than us. There can be no assurance that owners of carriers will want to sell at all or to us. If we fail to expand our business, make acquisitions or successfully integrate the operations of any acquired companies with our own operations, the rate of our future growth, if any, may be lower than our historical growth rate. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully expand our business through acquisitions or otherwise. In addition, the pursuit of future acquisitions could lead to a diversion of resources and management attention from operational matters. 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS Disruptions in Our Networks and Infrastructure May Cause Us to Lose Customers and Incur Additional Expenses. To be successful, we will need to continue to provide our customers with reliable and timely service over our networks. We face the following risks to our networks and infrastructure: • our territory can have significant weather events which physically damage access lines; • our rural geography creates the risk of security breaches, break-ins and sabotage; • power surges and outages, computer viruses or hacking, and software or hardware defects which are beyond our control; and • unusual spikes in demand or capacity limitations in our or our suppliers’ networks. Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and/or incur expenses, and thereby adversely affect our business, revenue and cash flow. In addition, the ASPC, MPUC and/or MPSC could require us to issue credits on customer bills for such service interruptions, further impacting revenue and cash. Our Success Depends on a Small Number of Key Personnel. Our success depends on the personal efforts of a small group of skilled employees and senior management. The rural nature of our service area provides for a smaller pool of skilled telephone employees and increases the challenge of hiring employees. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. We Provide Services to Our Customers Over Access Lines, and if We Lose Access Lines, Our Business and Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected. Our business generates revenue by delivering voice and data services over access lines. We have experienced net access line loss in our RLEC territories due to challenging economic conditions, loss of second lines when we sell high-speed Internet access service and increased competition. Our rural access line count declined by approximately 2.8% during 2007. We may continue to experience net access line loss in our rural markets. Continued access line losses could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our Performance Is Subject to a Number of Other Economic and Non-Economic Factors, Which We May Not Be Able to Predict Accurately. There are factors that may be beyond our control that could affect our operations and business. Such factors include adverse changes in the conditions in the specific markets for our products and services, the conditions in the broader market for telecommunications services and the conditions in the domestic and global economies, generally. Although our performance is affected by the general condition of the economy, not all of our services are affected equally. Local services revenue is generally linked to relatively consistent variables such as population changes, housing starts and general economic activity levels in the areas served. Internet and cable television revenue is generally related to more variable factors such as changing levels of discretionary spending on entertainment, the adoption of e-commerce and other on-line activities by our current or prospective customers. It is not possible for management to accurately predict all of these factors and the impact of such factors on our performance. Changes in the regulatory, competitive and technological environments may also impact our ability to increase revenue and/or earnings from the provision of local wireline services. We may therefore have to place increased emphasis on developing and realizing revenue through the provision of new and enhanced services with higher growth potential. In such a case, there is a risk that these revenue sources as well as our cost savings efforts through further efficiency gains will not grow or develop at a fast enough pace to offset slowing growth in local services. It is also possible that as we invest in new technologies and services, demand for those new services may not develop. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully expand our service offerings through the development of new services, and our efforts to do so may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS Changes in the Regulation of the Telecommunications Industry Could Adversely Affect Our Business, Revenue or Cash Flow. We operate in a heavily regulated industry. The majority of our revenue has been generally supported by and subject to regulation at the federal, state and local level. Certain federal, Alabama, Maine and Missouri regulations and local franchise requirements have been, are currently, and may in the future be, the subject of judicial proceedings, legislative hearings and administrative proposals. Such proceedings may relate to, among other things, the rates we may charge for our local, network access and other services, the manner in which we offer and bundle our services, the terms and conditions of interconnection, federal and state universal service funds (including USF HC), unbundled network elements and resale rates, and could change the manner in which telecommunications companies operate. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or the impact they will have on our business, revenue and cash flow. Governmental Authorities Could Decrease Network Access Charges or Rates for Local Services, Which Would Adversely Affect Our Revenue. Approximately 18.3% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007 was derived from network access charges paid by long distance carriers for use of our facilities to originate and terminate interstate and intrastate telephone calls. The interstate network access rates that we can charge are regulated by the FCC, and the intrastate network access rates that we can charge are regulated by the APSC, the MPUC and the MPSC. Those rates may change from time to time. The FCC has reformed and continues to reform the federal network access charge system. It is unknown at this time what additional changes, if any, the FCC, APSC, MPUC or MPSC may adopt. Such regulatory developments could adversely affect our business, revenue and cash flow. The local services rates and intrastate access charges charged by our rural local exchange carriers are regulated by state regulatory commissions which have the power to grant and revoke authorization to companies to provide telecommunications services and to impose other conditions and penalties. If we fail to comply with regulations set forth by the APSC, the MPUC or the MPSC, we may face revocation of our authorizations in Alabama, Maine or Missouri, or other conditions and penalties. It is possible that new plans would require us to reduce our rates, forego future rate increases, provide greater features as part of our basic service plan or limit our rates for certain offerings. We cannot predict the ultimate impact, if any, of such changes on our business, revenue and cash flow. Mid-Missouri Telephone and Mid-Maine Telecom charge rates for local services and intrastate access service based in part upon a rate-of-return authorized by the MPSC and the MPUC, respectively. These authorized rates are subject to audit at any time and may be reduced if the MPSC or MPUC finds them excessive. If either company is ordered to reduce its rates or if its applications to increase rates are denied or delayed, our business, revenue and cash flow may be negatively impacted. The National Exchange Carrier Association or NECA may file revisions to its average schedule formula each year which are subject to FCC approval. Two of our companies participate in average schedule rates. The level of funding and future changes in the average schedule rates rate are not currently known with certainty and could be higher or lower. A Reduction in Universal Service Fund High Cost Support Would Adversely Affect Our Business, Revenue And Cash Flow. Blountsville, Hopper, Mid-Maine and Mid-Missouri receive federal USF HC revenue to support their high cost of operations. Such support payments represented approximately 7.5% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007, and were based upon each participating rural local exchange carrier’s average cost per loop as compared to the national average cost per loop. These support payments fluctuate based upon the historical costs of our participating rural local exchange carriers as compared to the national average cost per loop. If our participating rural local exchange carriers are unable to receive support from the USF HC, or if such support is reduced, our business, revenue and cash flow would be negatively affected. In the last several years, the FCC made certain modifications to the USF HC support system that changed the sources of support and the method for determining the level of support. There is a cap on the total USF 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS HC payments made to Incumbent Local Exchange Carriers (ILECs) nationwide. It is unclear whether the changes in methodology will continue to accurately reflect the costs incurred by our participating rural local exchange carriers, and whether they will provide for the same amount of USF HC support that we have received in the past. In addition, a number of issues regarding source and amount of contributions to, and eligibility for, payments from USF HC are currently being reviewed by the FCC. On February 25, 2005, the FCC adopted several Federal-State Joint Board recommendations to augment the requirements for telecommunications carriers seeking designation as eligible telecommunications carriers, or “ETCs,” and urged states exercising ETC designation authority to take the same steps. Applicants for ETC designation by the FCC will now be required to provide a five-year plan for utilization of the high-cost universal service support to be received, demonstrate an ability to remain functional during emergency situations, demonstrate an ability to satisfy consumer protection and service quality standards, offer local service plans comparable to that provided by the incumbent local exchange carrier, and acknowledge the possibility of being required to provide equal access to long distance service providers if only one ETC remains designated within the service area. Those carriers already designated as ETCs by the Commission were required to demonstrate compliance with these standards by October 1, 2006. Additional annual certification and reporting requirements were also adopted. Similarly, the FCC in September 2004 asked the Federal-State Joint Board on Universal Service to review the federal rules relating to universal service support mechanisms for rural carriers, including addressing the relevant costs and the definition of rural telephone company for the purpose of determining the appropriate universal service support. On May 16, 2006, the FCC released an order extending the current high-cost universal support rules until the FCC adopts changes, if any, to these rules. The Federal-State Joint Board issued its long-term USF reform recommendations on November 20, 2007 which, if approved, could affect USF support. The outcome of these proceedings and other regulatory or legislative changes could affect the amount of USF HC support that we receive, and could have an adverse effect on our business, revenue and cash flow. If a wireless or other telecommunications carrier receives ETC status in our service areas or even outside of our service areas, the amount of support we receive from the USF HC could decline under current rules, and under some proposed USF HC rule changes, could be significantly reduced. In the past, some disbursements to another class of universal service fund recipients, schools and libraries, were suspended to comply with the Anti-Deficiency Act (31 U.S.C. § 1341) (2000). Legislation was passed that exempts USF funds from the Anti-Deficiency Act temporarily, with permanent legislation pending. We cannot predict the outcome of these actions. Universal Services Administrative Co., or USAC, serves as the administrative agent to collect data and distribute funds for USF. In 2006, it began conducting High Cost Beneficiary audits, designed to ensure compliance with FCC rules and program requirements and to assist in program compliance. Carriers are chosen from a random sample of each type of ETC, including average schedule and cost companies, incumbents and competitors, rural and non-rural, from various states. Audits are designed to ensure proper designation of a carrier as ETC, accuracy of data submissions, documentation of accounting procedures, physical inventory of assets, true-up of projected data, and samples of detailed documentation (e.g., invoices, continuing property records). We were notified by USAC in December 2006 that two of our companies, Blountsville and Hopper, were selected for audit. In January 2008, we were notified that two more of our companies, Otelco Telephone and Brindlee Mountain Telephone, were selected for audit. These audits are being conducted widely across our industry as directed by the FCC. All of these audits are in process. If We Were to Lose Our Protected Status Under Interconnection Rules, We Would Incur Additional Administrative and Regulatory Expenses and Face More Competition. As a “rural telephone company” under the Communications Act, each of our RLECs is exempt from the obligation to lease its unbundled facilities to competitive local exchange carriers, to offer retail services at wholesale prices for resale, to permit competitive collocation at its facilities and to comply with certain other requirements applicable to larger incumbent local exchange carriers. However, we eventually may be required to comply with these requirements in some or all of our service areas if: (i) we receive a bona fide request from a telecommunications carrier; and (ii) the APSC, MPUC or MPSC, as applicable, determines that it is in the public interest to impose such requirements. In addition, we may be required to comply with some or all of these requirements in order to achieve greater pricing flexibility from state regulators. If we are required to 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS comply with these requirements, we could incur additional administrative and regulatory expenses and face more competition which could adversely affect our business, revenue and cash flow. Changes in the Regulation of Cable Television Franchises and Services May Adversely Impact Our Cable Television Operations. Cable television systems are operated under franchises granted by local government authorities. Franchises may contain various conditions, including time limitations on commencement or completion of construction, approval of initial fees charged to customers for basic service, the number of channels offered and the types of programming to be provided. The regulation of cable television at the federal, state and local levels is subject to a political process and has been in constant flux over the past decade. This process continues in the context of new legislative proposals and the adoption or deletion of administrative regulations and policies, including statewide franchising proposals in a number of states. We anticipate further material developments in these areas, but cannot anticipate their direction or impact on our cable television operations. In addition, the regulatory approach to the utilization of cable television facilities for the provision of services beyond video programming is also in flux, rendering it impossible to anticipate the extent or scope of future regulatory requirements or limitations. The impact of requirements for content providers to utilize only digital format may impact delivery system requirements for cable operators. Our Current Dividend Policy May Negatively Impact Our Ability to Maintain or Expand Our Network Infrastructure and Finance Capital Expenditures or Operations. Our board of directors has adopted a dividend policy pursuant to which substantially all of the cash generated by our business in excess of operating needs, interest and principal payments on indebtedness, and capital expenditures sufficient to maintain our network infrastructure, would in general be distributed as regular quarterly cash dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and not be retained by us. Our Class B common stock will convert to income deposit securities not later than the end of 2009, increasing the number of Class A shares with a resultant increase in dividend cost within the current policy. As a result, we may not have a sufficient amount of cash to fund our operations in the event of a significant business downturn, finance growth of our network or unanticipated capital expenditure needs. We may have to forego growth opportunities or capital expenditures that would otherwise be necessary or desirable if we do not find alternative sources of financing or if we do not modify our dividend policy. If we do not have sufficient cash for these purposes, our financial condition and our business will suffer or our board of directors may change our dividend policy. We Are Subject to Restrictive Debt Covenants That Limit Our Business Flexibility By Imposing Operating and Financial Restrictions on Our Operations. The agreements governing our indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions prohibit or limit, among other things: • the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the issuance of preferred stock and certain redeemable capital stock; • the making of certain types of restricted payments, including investments and acquisitions; • specified sales of assets; • specified transactions with affiliates; • the creation of a number of liens; • consolidations, mergers and transfers of all or substantially all of our assets; and • our ability to change the nature of our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS 