ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Related to Our Business Except for the historical information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, this annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed here. Factors that could cause or contribute to differences in our actual results include those discussed in the following section, as well as those discussed in Item 7 under the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere throughout this annual report on Form 10-K. You should consider carefully the following risk 25 factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. We have a history of operating losses and may incur additional substantial losses in 2007. We may never achieve profitability. Since the end of 1998, we incurred losses in each year of our operations, and we may continue to incur operating losses in 2007. These operating losses have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our working capital, total assets and shareholders’ equity. The process of developing our products requires significant clinical, development and laboratory testing and clinical trials. In addition, commercialization of our product candidates will require that we obtain necessary regulatory approvals and establish sales, marketing and manufacturing capabilities, either through internal hiring or through contractual relationships with others. We may incur substantial losses in 2007 as a result of costs incurred in anticipation of the commercial launch of Vyvanse, anticipated increases in our research and development costs, including costs associated with conducting preclinical testing and clinical trials, regulatory compliance activities and developing our sales and marketing capabilities. We incurred operating losses of approximately $55.8 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, approximately $31.8 million for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2006, approximately $16.3 million for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2005 and approximately $4.8 million for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2003. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $127 million. Our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability will depend on numerous factors, including success in: • developing and testing product candidates; • receiving regulatory approvals; • commercializing our products; and • establishing a favorable competitive position. Many of these factors will depend on circumstances beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will ever have a product, other than Vyvanse, approved by the FDA, that we will bring any product to market or, if we are successful in doing so, that we will ever become profitable. Our product candidates are based on a technology that could ultimately prove ineffective or unsafe. Our product candidates are created using our proprietary Carrierwave technology. Our test results to date are limited to clinical studies in humans and preclinical studies in animals with respect to Vyvanse and NRP290 and laboratory tests and preclinical trials in animals with respect to other product candidates. We have not fully characterized the mechanism of absorption of our CBDs. Ultimately, our research and preclinical findings, which currently indicate that our Carrierwave technology possesses beneficial properties, may prove to be incorrect, in which case the product candidates created using our Carrierwave technology may not differ substantially from competing drugs and may in fact be inferior to them. If these products are substantially identical or inferior to drugs already available, the market for our Carrierwave drugs would be reduced or eliminated. Based on our preclinical and clinical studies to date, we believe our lead product candidates are safe and have no known side effects other than those associated generally with therapeutic amounts of amphetamine and opioids. However, we may not be able to prove that our product candidates are safe. No assessment of the efficacy, safety or side effects of a product candidate can be considered complete until all clinical trials needed to support a submission for marketing approval are complete. Other than Vyvanse, which received regulatory approval from the FDA on February 23, 2007, our product candidates will require additional laboratory, animal and human testing prior to approval. In addition, we are conducting studies of Vyvanse in the adult ADHD population and have agreed to a request by the FDA that we conduct studies in adolescents (aged 13-17 years). 26 Success in earlier clinical and preclinical trials does not mean that subsequent trials will confirm the earlier findings, or that experience with use of a product in large-scale commercial distribution will not identify additional safety or efficacy issues. If we find that any of our products are not safe, or if efficacy of the products cannot be consistently demonstrated, we may not be able to commercialize the products, or may be required to cease distribution of the relevant products. The safety of our Carrierwave formulations may vary with each drug and the ingredients used in each formulation, and therefore even if safety and effectiveness are established for one of our CBDs, this would not necessarily be predictive of the safety or effectiveness of any of our other product candidates, which would need to be separately established. If we are unable to develop and commercialize our product candidates successfully, we may never achieve profitability. We have not commercialized any products or recognized any revenue from product sales utilizing our Carrierwave technology. All of the compounds produced using our Carrierwave technology, other than Vyvanse, are in early stages of development. We must conduct significant additional research and development activities before we will be able to apply for regulatory approval to commercialize any other products utilizing our Carrierwave technology. We must successfully complete adequate and well-controlled studies designed to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the product candidates and obtain regulatory approval before we are able to commercialize these product candidates. There is no guarantee that we will receive regulatory approval with respect to any of our product candidates, other than Vyvanse which received regulatory approval on February 23, 2007. Even if we succeed in commercializing Vyvanse or developing and commercializing one or more of our other product candidates utilizing our Carrierwave technology, we may never generate sufficient or sustainable revenue to enable us to be profitable. We face intense competition in the markets targeted by our lead product candidates. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do, and we expect that all of our product candidates under development will face intense competition from existing or future drugs. We have devoted substantial research efforts and capital to the development of our Carrierwave technology and our lead product candidates. We expect that all of our product candidates, if approved, will face intense competition from existing and future drugs marketed by other companies. The markets for amphetamines and other stimulants to treat ADHD and opioids to treat pain are well developed and populated with established drugs marketed by large pharmaceutical, biotechnology and generic drug companies. Amphetamines or other stimulants currently marketed for ADHD include Ritalin (Novartis AG), Concerta (McNeil Consumer & Specialty Pharmaceuticals), Dexedrine (GlaxoSmithKline PLC), Dextrostat (Shire), Cylert (Abbott Laboratories, Inc.) and Adderall (Shire). In addition, Eli Lilly and Company markets a non-stimulant drug, Strattera, for ADHD. Opioids currently marketed for acute pain include Anexsia (Mallinckrodt Inc.), Endocet (Endo Laboratories), Hydrocet (Amarin Pharmaceuticals, Inc.), Lortab (UCB Pharma Inc.), Norco (Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc.), and Vicodin (Abbott Laboratories, Inc.). Opioids currently marketed for chronic pain include OxyContin (Purdue Pharmaceuticals LP), Duragesic (Janssen Pharmaceutical Products, L.P.), MSContin (Purdue Frederick Company) and Avinza (Ligand Pharmaceuticals Inc.). Each of these companies has significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. In addition, generic equivalent versions of many of these existing drug products are available and these products are therefore subject to substantial price competition. If we obtain regulatory approval to market one or more of our product candidates, we will compete with these established brand and generic drugs and will need to show that our drugs have safety or efficacy advantages in order to take market share and be successful. Currently, and as a direct consequence of the public debate of the social and economic costs of illegal diversion and abuse of, addiction to, and overdose from stimulants and narcotics, several companies are pursuing formulations that are less prone to abuse and are less toxic. Companies specifically engaged in developing abuse resistant drugs include Purdue Pharma LP, Nastech Pharmaceutical Company Inc. and Pain Therapeutics Inc. Other companies, including Johnson & Johnson and Noven Pharmaceuticals, Inc., are investigating alternative delivery mechanisms to control the delivery and availability of scheduled drugs. These 27 technologies include transdermal skin patches, metered dose inhalers and extended release subcutaneous injections and implants. These competitors may: • successfully market products that compete with our products; • successfully identify drug candidates or develop products earlier than we do; or • develop products that are more effective, have fewer side effects or cost less than our products. Additionally, if a competitor receives FDA approval before we do for a drug that is similar to one of our product candidates, FDA approval for our product candidate may be precluded or delayed due to periods of non-patent exclusivity and/or the listing with the FDA by the competitor of patents covering its newly-approved drug product. Periods of non-patent exclusivity for new versions of existing drugs such as our current product candidates can extend up to three and one-half years. These competitive factors could require us to conduct substantial new research and development activities to establish new product targets, which would be costly and time-consuming. These activities would adversely affect our ability to commercialize products and achieve revenue and profits. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to pursue the development of our technologies and products would be negatively affected. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our technologies and products. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies to produce and market drugs in direct competition with us and erode our competitive advantage. Some foreign countries lack rules and methods for defending intellectual property rights and do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the United States. Many companies have had difficulty protecting their proprietary rights in these foreign countries. We may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights. Patent positions can be uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We can protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. As of February 28, 2007, we hold two issued U.S. patents relating to our generic Carrierwave technology, one issued U.S. patent covering NRP290, one U.S. patent covering Carrierwave technology applied to oxycodone and one U.S. Patent covering Vyvanse. In addition, as of February 28, 2007, we hold four U.S. patents directed to iodothyronine stability and delivery. We have applied for additional patents relating to our technologies and our products and plan to file additional patent applications in the future. We have U.S. patent applications pending covering each of our product candidates. Additionally, we have Patent Cooperation Treaty applications pending covering abuse resistant aspects of our technology, as well as, national stage applications pending in up to 18 countries depending on the specific product candidate. We also have national stage applications covering our core technology platform in Europe, Japan, China, South Korea, Canada, Australia, India and Israel. Others may challenge our patents, or our patent applications may not result in issued patents. Moreover, any patents issued to us may not provide us with meaningful protection, or others may challenge, circumvent or force us to narrow our patents. Third parties may also independently develop products similar to our products, duplicate our unpatented products or design around any patents on products we develop. Additionally, extensive time is required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product. While extensions of patent terms due to regulatory delays may be available, it is possible that, before any of our product candidates can be commercialized, any related patent, even with an extension, may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantages of the patent. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and security measures to protect our confidential and proprietary information. These measures may not adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information. If they do not adequately protect our rights, third parties could use our technology, and we could lose any competitive advantage we may have. In addition, others may independently develop similar proprietary information or 28 techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets, which could impair any competitive advantage we may have. We have not commissioned an extensive investigation concerning our freedom to practice or the validity or enforceability of our Carrierwave technology and have only recently commissioned an investigation concerning our freedom to practice or the validity or the enforceability for our product candidates, and we may be held to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Our ability to freely practice our product candidates is dependent upon the duration and scope of patents held by third parties. Our patent, prior art and infringement investigations have been conducted primarily by us. Although we have consulted with our patent counsel in connection with our intellectual property investigations, our patent counsel has only recently undertaken an extensive independent analysis to determine whether our product candidates infringe upon any issued patents or whether our issued patents or patent applications relating to our product candidates could be invalidated or rendered unenforceable for any reason or could be subject to interference proceedings. Further, we have not commissioned our patent counsel to undertake an extensive independent analysis to determine whether our Carrierwave technology could infringe upon any issued patents or whether our issued patents or patent applications relating to our Carrierwave technology could be invalidated or rendered unenforceable for any reason or could be subject to interference proceedings. There may be patents or patent applications of which we are unaware, and avoiding patent infringement may be difficult. We may inadvertently infringe third-party patents. Third-party patents may impair or block our ability to conduct our business. There are no unresolved communications, allegations, complaints or threats of litigation related to the possibility that we might infringe patents held by others. Claims may be asserted against us that our products or technology infringes patents or other intellectual property owned by others. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our products or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others. In the event of litigation, any claims may not be resolved in our favor. Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not valid, may result in substantial costs and may result in an award of damages, lost profits, attorneys’ fees, and tripling of those damages in the event that a court finds an infringement to have been willful. A lawsuit could also place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management and harm our reputation. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: • cease making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing any products that infringe a third party’s intellectual property through an injunction; • obtain a license or an assignment from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license or assignment may be costly or may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or • redesign our products, which would be costly and time-consuming and may not be possible. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which could be expensive and time-consuming. As of February 28, 2007, our intellectual property included nine U.S. patents, two foreign patents and 124 pending U.S. (including provisionals, divisionals, continuations, and continuations-in-part applications), Patent Cooperation Treaty and national stage applications. We have licensed aspects of our Carrierwave technology with respect to Vyvanse pursuant to our collaboration agreement with Shire. As of February 28, 2007, we had 77 applications worldwide covering anti-abuse compounds, compositions and methods for amphetamine, hydrocodone and oxycodone and other commonly abused substances both specifically and generally. Of these, worldwide prosecution is being focused on amphetamine in 22 applications, hydrocodone in 25 applications, oxycodone in 29 applications. Additionally, iodothyronine compounds are the focus of seven applications worldwide. Competitors may infringe our patents, and we may file infringement claims to counter infringement or unauthorized use. This can be expensive, particularly for a company of our size, and time-consuming. In 29 addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover its technology. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly. Also, a third party may assert that our patents are invalid and/or unenforceable. There are no unresolved communications, allegations, complaints or threats of litigation related to the possibility that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not merited, may result in substantial costs, place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management and harm our reputation. An adverse decision in a litigation could result in inadequate protection for our product candidates and/or reduce the value of any license agreements we have with third parties. Interference proceedings brought before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine priority of invention with respect to our patents or patent applications. During an interference proceeding, it may be determined that we do not have priority of invention for one or more aspects in our patents or patent applications and could result in the invalidation in part or whole of a patent or could put a patent application at risk of not issuing. Even if successful, an interference may result in substantial costs and distraction to our management. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation or interference proceedings, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If investors perceive these results to be negative, the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. If preclinical testing or clinical trials for our product candidates are unsuccessful or delayed, we will be unable to meet our anticipated development and commercialization timelines. Other than Vyvanse, our potential drug candidates require preclinical testing and clinical trials prior to submission of any regulatory application for commercial sales. Additional clinical study requirements could be imposed on us either prior to approval or as post-approval requirements. In addition, we are conducting studies of Vyvanse in the adult ADHD population and have agreed to a request by the FDA that we conduct studies in adolescents (aged 13-17 years). We currently employ two clinical trial managers. We rely and expect to continue to rely on third parties, including clinical research organizations and outside consultants, to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of preclinical testing or clinical trials involving our product candidates. We have less control over the timing and other aspects of these preclinical testing or clinical trials than if we performed the monitoring and supervision entirely on our own. Third parties may not perform their responsibilities for our preclinical testing or clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or, for clinical trials, consistent with a clinical trial protocol. Delays in preclinical and clinical testing could significantly increase our product development costs and delay product commercialization. In addition, many of the factors that may cause, or lead to, a delay in the clinical trials may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: • demonstrating sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and trial sites; • manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate; and • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site. Once a clinical trial has begun, it may be delayed, suspended or terminated by us or the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • ongoing discussions with the FDA or other regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; 30 • failure to conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements; • lower than anticipated recruitment or retention rate of patients in clinical trials; • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • lack of adequate funding to continue clinical trials; • adverse effects or safety issues; or • negative results of clinical trials. If clinical trials are unsuccessful, and we are not able to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates under development, we will not be able to commercialize these products, and therefore may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to support our business. If the FDA does not accept our filing for NRP290 under Section 505(b)(1) and we are unable to file for approval under Section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or if we are required to generate additional data related to safety and efficacy in order to obtain approval under Section 505(b)(1) or 505(b)(2), we may be unable to meet our anticipated development and commercialization timelines. Our current plans for filing NDAs for our product candidates include efforts to minimize the data we will be required to generate in order to obtain marketing approval for our product candidates and therefore possibly obtain a shortened review period for the applications. The FDA accepted our NDA for Vyvanse under Section 505(b)(1), and we believe it may also accept our planned NDA for NRP290 under that section as well. The FDA could change its determination on this issue, however, and require that we either generate additional data to support an approval under Section 505(b)(1) or submit or convert an application to a Section 505(b)(2) application so that we can rely on data generated by third parties, to which we do not have a right of reference. If we are required to rely on data generated with products already approved by the FDA and covered by third-party patents we would be required to certify that we do not infringe the listed patents for those products or that such patents are invalid or unenforceable. As a result of such a certification, the third party would have 45 days from notification of our certification to initiate an action for patent infringement against us. In the event that an action is brought in response to such a certification, the approval of our NDA could be subject to a stay of up to 30 months or more while we defend against such a suit. Approval of our product candidates may therefore be delayed until patent exclusivity expires or until we successfully challenge the applicability of those patents to our product candidates. Alternatively, we may elect to generate sufficient additional clinical data of our own so that we can maintain our application under Section 505(b)(1). Even if no exclusivity periods apply to our applications, the FDA has broad discretion to require us to generate additional data on the safety and efficacy of our product candidates to supplement third-party data on which we may be permitted to rely. In either event, we could be required, before obtaining marketing approval for any of our product candidates, to conduct substantial new research and development activities beyond those we currently plan to engage in order to obtain approval of our product candidates. Such additional new research and development activities would be costly and time-consuming. If we are required to generate additional data to support approval, we may be unable to meet our anticipated development and commercialization timelines, may be unable to generate the additional data at a reasonable cost, or at all, and may be unable to obtain marketing approval of our product candidates. We will be unable to begin commercial sale of Vyvanse until the DEA concludes proceedings to place the drug in Schedule II under the CSA On October 6, 2006, we received an approvable letter from the FDA which indicated that the Controlled Substance Staff of the FDA has initially recommended that NRP104 be placed in Schedule II of the Controlled Substance Act (CSA). Subsequently, the FDA forwarded to the DEA, through the Assistant Secretary for Health of the Department of Health and Human Services, its medical and scientific findings, and its recommendation that the drug be placed in Schedule II. The DEA has published a notice in the Federal 31 Register of a proposal to implement that recommendation. Interested persons have until March 26, 2007 to comment on the proposal and to request a hearing. After consideration of the comments received, and potentially the holding of a formal administrative hearing, the DEA will then publish a regulation placing the drug in the appropriate CSA schedule. We have committed to the FDA not to commence sale of the drug until it is placed in an appropriate CSA schedule by the DEA. We believe that DEA will act promptly to complete the scheduling of the drug after the close of the comment period on March 26, 2007. Because of the opportunity for public participation in the process, however, we cannot predict how long the DEA may take to conclude any further procedures and complete scheduling action with respect to the drug that they may believe are warranted. The potential market for Vyvanse may be limited by the placement of the drug in Schedule II. The drug products with which Vyvanse is expected to compete are amphetamine products currently classified by the DEA under the CSA on Schedule II, the most restrictive schedule applicable to drug products marketed for legitimate medical use. Because of the decision by FDA and DEA to place the active ingredient in Vyvanse in Schedule II, there will be no scheduling advantage for Vyvanse, at least at launch, in comparison with other competing products. Marketing plans and strategies for Vyvanse are now being finalized in light of the newly approved labeling for the product and the anticipated placement of the active ingredient by DEA in Schedule II. There can be no assurance that these marketing plans and strategies will be implemented effectively or will result in significant sales for the drug. In addition, our ability to promote Vyvanse based on differences in the abuse potential and abuse liability of the drug in comparison with other competing drug products may be limited by the Schedule II status of the drug and by the FDA-approved labeling for the drug. We have engaged in extensive financial and operational transactions with Randal J. Kirk, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and his affiliates, and therefore these transactions may not be as favorable to us as if we had negotiated them with unaffiliated third parties. Our company was formed by, and has historically been controlled and managed and, prior to the initial public offering of our common stock, principally funded by, Randal J. Kirk, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and affiliates of Mr. Kirk. As a result, we have engaged in a variety of financial and operational transactions with Mr. Kirk and these affiliates. We believe that each of these transactions was on terms no less favorable to us than terms we could have obtained from unaffiliated third parties. Their terms may not be as favorable to us as if we had negotiated them with unaffiliated third parties. It is our intention to ensure that all future transactions, if any, between us and our officers, directors, principal shareholders and their affiliates, are approved by the audit committee or a majority of the independent and disinterested members of the board of directors, and are on terms no less favorable to us than those that we could obtain from unaffiliated third parties. As of March 6, 2007, Randal J. Kirk controlled approximately 50.2% of our common stock and is able to control or significantly influence corporate actions, which may result in Mr. Kirk taking actions that advance his interests to the detriment of our other shareholders. As of March 6, 2007, Randal J. Kirk, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and shareholders affiliated with him controlled approximately 50.2% of our common stock. Mr. Kirk is able to control or significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of Mr. Kirk may not always coincide with the interests of other shareholders, and he may take actions that advance his interests to the detriment of our other shareholders. We rely on Third Security, LLC, to provide us with certain services. If Third Security, LLC ceases to provide these services and we are unable to establish and maintain the necessary infrastructure to be self-sufficient, our business will be adversely affected. We rely on Third Security, LLC to provide support for tax, legal, information technology, and market research functions as well as provide the miscellaneous services that we may need from time to time until the 32 earlier of August 2007 or our termination of the administrative services agreement we have with Third Security. If the agreement is terminated early or Third Security will not agree to renew the agreement and ceases to provide these services and we are unable to add the necessary personnel and establish the necessary infrastructure to support our operations as a result, our business will be adversely affected. Third Security is owned by Randal J. Kirk, our Chairman, CEO, and President, who, with shareholders affiliated with him as of March 6, 2007, controlled approximately 50.2% of our common stock. The administrative services agreement has terms no less favorable than those that we would have entered into with an unaffiliated third party, and the agreement was approved by a majority of the independent and disinterested members of our board of directors. Our executive officers and other key personnel are critical to our business, and our future success depends on our ability to retain them. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific team, particularly, Mr. Kirk, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Krish S. Krishnan, our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Garen Z. Manvelian, our Chief Medical Officer and Vice President, Clinical and Regulatory Affairs, John K. Thottathil, Ph.D., our Chief Scientific Officer and Suma M. Krishnan, Vice President, Product Development. In order to pursue our product development, marketing and commercialization plans, we will need to hire additional personnel with experience in clinical testing, government regulation, manufacturing, marketing and business development. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the intense competition for such personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, universities and non-profit research institutions. We have no employment agreements with any of our executive officers and while we have employment agreements with certain of our employees, all of our employees are at-will employees who may terminate their employment at any time. We do not currently have key personnel insurance on any of our officers or employees. The loss of any of our key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our research, development or business objectives and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third parties to manufacture the compounds used in our trials, and we intend to rely on them for the manufacture of any approved products for commercial sale. If these third parties do not manufacture our product candidates in sufficient quantities and at an acceptable cost, clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed, prevented or impaired. We have no manufacturing facilities, and we have no experience in the clinical or commercial-scale manufacture of drugs or in designing drug manufacturing processes. Certain specialized manufacturers provide us with modified and unmodified pharmaceutical compounds, including finished products, for use in our preclinical and clinical studies. If we fail to contract for manufacturing on acceptable terms or if third-party manufacturers do not perform as we expect, our development programs could be materially adversely affected. This may result in delays in filing for and receiving FDA approval for one or more of our products. Any such delays could cause our prospects to suffer significantly. We intend to rely on third parties to manufacture some or all of our products that reach commercialization. We believe that there are a variety of manufacturers that we may be able to retain to produce these products. However, once we retain a manufacturing source, if our manufacturers do not perform in a satisfactory manner, we may not be able to develop or commercialize potential products as planned. Failure by our third-party manufacturers to comply with the regulatory guidelines set forth by the FDA and DEA with respect to our product candidates could delay or prevent the completion of clinical trials, the approval of any product candidates or the commercialization of our products. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers exposes us to the following additional risks, any of which could delay or prevent the completion of our clinical trials, the approval of our product candidates by the FDA or 33 other regulatory agencies or the commercialization of our products, result in higher costs or deprive us of potential product revenues: • Manufacturers are obligated to operate in accordance with FDA-mandated current good manufacturing practice (cGMP) requirements. A failure of any of our third-party manufacturers to establish and follow cGMP requirements and to document their adherence to such practices may lead to significant delays in the availability of material for clinical trials, may delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products, and may cause delays or interruptions in the availability of our products for commercial distribution following FDA approval. • Replacing our third-party manufacturers or contracting with additional manufacturers may require re-validation of the manufacturing processes and procedures in accordance with cGMP and compliance with supplemental approval requirements. Any such necessary re-validation and supplemental approvals may be costly and time-consuming. Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA, the DEA and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMP requirements and other requirements under Federal drug laws, other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. If our third-party manufacturers or we fail to comply with applicable regulations, sanctions could be imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure by the government to grant marketing approval of drugs, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, seizures or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. We may need additional capital in the future. If additional capital is not available or is available at unattractive terms, we may be forced to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate our research and development programs, reduce our commercialization efforts or curtail our operations. In order to develop and bring our product candidates to market, we must commit substantial resources to costly and time-consuming research, preclinical and clinical trials and marketing activities. We anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments will enable us to maintain our current planned operations for at least the next 15 months. We anticipate using our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments to fund further research and development with respect to our lead product candidates and commercialization activities. We may, however, need to raise additional funding sooner if our business or operations change in a manner that consumes available resources more rapidly than we anticipate. Our requirements for additional capital will depend on many factors, including: • successful commercialization of our product candidates; • continued progress of research and development of product candidates utilizing our Carrierwave technology; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approval for our product candidates; • costs associated with protecting our intellectual property rights; • development of marketing and sales capabilities; • payments received under our collaboration agreements with Shire and any future collaborative agreements, if any; • market acceptance of our products; and • conversion of our outstanding Notes As of December 31, 2006, we have no committed additional sources of capital. To the extent our capital resources are insufficient to meet future capital requirements, we will need to raise additional funds to continue the development of our product candidates. To the extent we raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities, the issuance of those securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. In addition, if we obtain debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, thus limiting funds available for our business activities. If adequate 34 funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate our research and development programs, reduce our commercialization efforts or curtail our operations. In addition, we may be required to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborative partners, such as our agreements with Shire, or others that may require us to relinquish rights to technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves or license rights to technologies, product candidates or products on terms that are less favorable to us than might otherwise be available. Under the terms of the Notes, if the closing price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of a calendar quarter is in excess of 120% of the applicable conversion price per share under the terms of the Notes, then the Notes will become convertible. As of December 31, 2006, the Notes had met this condition and became convertible. The Notes will remain convertible until at least March 31, 2007, which is the next measurement date for determining whether the Notes will be convertible for the next calendar quarter. Through March 12, 2007, none of the outstanding Notes had been converted. Even if we obtain regulatory approval to market our product candidates, our product candidates may not be accepted by the market. Even if we obtain regulatory approval to market our product candidates, our product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any pharmaceutical product that we develop will depend on a number of factors, including: • cost-effectiveness; • the safety and effectiveness of our products, including any potential side effects, as compared to alternative products or treatment methods; • the timing of market entry as compared to competitive products; • the rate of adoption of our products by doctors and nurses; • product labeling or product insert required by the FDA for each of our products; • determination of scheduled or unscheduled status by the FDA and DEA; • reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors; • effectiveness of our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities and the effectiveness of such capabilities of our collaborative partners; and • unfavorable publicity concerning our products or any similar products. Our product candidates, if successfully developed, will compete with a number of products manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and manufacturers of generic drugs. Our products may also compete with new products currently under development by others. Physicians, patients, third-party payors and the medical community may not accept and utilize any of our product candidates. Physicians may not be inclined to prescribe the drugs created utilizing our Carrierwave technology unless our drugs bring substantial and demonstrable advantages over other drugs currently marketed for the same indications. If our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenues or become profitable. If we fail to establish marketing, sales and distribution capabilities, or fail to enter into arrangements with third parties to do this on our behalf, we will not be able to create a market for our product candidates. Currently, we do not have any significant sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. On July 25, 2006, under the terms of our collaboration agreement with Shire, we exercised our right to co-promote Vyvanse in the United States (including its territories and possessions). In order to generate sales of any product candidates that receive regulatory approval, we must either acquire or develop an internal marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services for us. The acquisition or development of a sales and distribution infrastructure would require substantial resources, which may divert the attention of our management and key 35 personnel and defer our product development efforts. To the extent that we enter into marketing and sales arrangements with other companies, our revenues will depend on the efforts of others. These efforts may not be successful. If we fail to develop sales, marketing and distribution channels, or enter into arrangements with third parties, we will experience delays in product sales and incur increased costs. Upon entering into the Merger Agreement with Shire on February 20, 2007, we ceased activities associated with our previous exercise of the co-promotion option to market Vyvanse. If the merger agreement with Shire fails to close, then our ability to successfully execute our responsibilities under the co-promotion option would be significantly delayed and could negatively impact our revenues. In the event that we are successful in bringing any products to market, our revenues may be adversely affected if we fail to obtain acceptable prices or adequate reimbursement for our products from third-party payors. Our ability to commercialize pharmaceutical products successfully may depend in part on the availability of reimbursement for our products from: • government and health administration authorities; • private health insurers; and • other third-party payors, including Medicare. We cannot predict the availability of reimbursement for newly approved health care products. Third-party payors, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other third-party payors increasingly are limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs. Third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for any of our products. The continuing efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care may limit our commercial opportunity. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for any prescription product we bring to market, doctors may not prescribe them or patients may ask to have their physicians prescribe competing drugs with more favorable reimbursement. In some foreign markets, pricing and profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals are subject to government control. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals for similar controls. In addition, we expect that increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any products in the future. Further, cost control initiatives could impair our ability to commercialize our products and our ability to earn revenues from this commercialization. We could be forced to pay substantial damage awards if product liability claims that may be brought against us are successful. The use of any of our product candidates in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products, may expose us to liability claims and financial losses resulting from the use or sale of our products. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials of $20 million per occurrence and in the aggregate, subject to a deductible of $100,000 per occurrence and $1 million per year in the aggregate. However, such insurance may not be adequate to cover any claims made against us. Furthermore, upon commercialization of Vyvanse, we will need to obtain additional product liability insurance coverage. In addition, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against losses. We use hazardous chemicals in our business. Potential claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these chemicals could be time-consuming and costly. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous chemicals. These hazardous chemicals are reagents and solvents typically found in a chemistry laboratory. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. While we attempt to comply with all environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the outsourcing of the disposal of all hazardous chemicals and 36 waste products, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination from or discharge of hazardous materials and any resultant injury. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive. Current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. We might have to pay civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, hazardous materials. We are not insured against these environmental risks. In our collaborations with third parties, they might also work with hazardous materials in connection with our collaborations. We may agree to indemnify our collaborators in some circumstances against damages and other liabilities arising out of development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations. If Shire, our collaboration partner on Vyvanse, or any other collaborative partners we retain, do not satisfy their obligations, we will be unable to develop our partnered product candidates. We have entered into collaborative agreements with Shire relating to the global commercialization of Vyvanse for treatment of ADHD and other potential indications. This collaboration includes product development, manufacturing, marketing and sales. We do not have day-to-day control over the activities of Shire with respect to Vyvanse. In the event we enter into any other collaborative agreements, we may not have day-to-day control over the activities of such collaborative partner with respect to any of these product candidates. Shire may not fulfill its obligations with respect to commercialization under our collaborations with Shire. In addition, future collaborative partners may not fulfill their obligations under future collaborative agreements. If any future collaborative partner fails to fulfill its obligations under an agreement with us, we may be unable to assume the development of the products covered by that agreement or enter into alternative arrangements with a third party. In addition, if Shire or any other collaborative partner fails to fulfill its obligations under an agreement with us, we may encounter delays in the commercialization of the product candidate that is the subject of the agreement. Accordingly, our ability to receive any revenue from the product candidates covered by these agreements will be dependent on the efforts of our collaborative partner. We could also become involved in disputes with Shire or another collaborative partner, which could lead to delays in or termination of our development and commercialization programs and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. In addition, any such dispute could diminish our collaborators’ commitment to us and reduce the resources they devote to developing and commercializing our products. Conflicts or disputes with our collaborators, and competition from them, could harm our relationships with our other collaborators, restrict our ability to enter future collaboration agreements and delay the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates. If any collaborative partner terminates or breaches its agreement, or otherwise fails to complete its obligations in a timely manner, our chances of successfully developing or commercializing these product candidates would be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to enter into other collaborative agreements with partners on terms favorable to us, or at all. Our inability to enter into collaborative arrangements with collaborative partners, or our failure to maintain such arrangements, would limit the number of product candidates that we could develop and ultimately, decrease our sources of any future revenues. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and limit our ability to react to changes in our industry or to implement our strategic initiatives. On December 31, 2006, we had $137,750,000 of outstanding Notes and related interest payable of $2,071,750. Our Notes could have important consequences to us. For example, they could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund our business activities, including our research and development programs; • limit our ability to secure additional financing to implement our strategic initiatives; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; 37 • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt; and • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new technologies or otherwise exploiting business opportunities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt, including the Notes, or that future working capital, borrowings or equity financing will be available to pay or refinance any such debt. In addition, holders of the Notes may require us to purchase for cash all or a portion of their notes upon the occurrence of certain specific kinds of fundamental change events (as defined in the indenture governing the Notes), including a change in control of our company. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient financial resources or be able to arrange financing to pay the repurchase price, including the related make whole premium, upon the occurrence of a fundamental change event. In addition, the requirement to pay the fundamental change repurchase price, including the related make whole premium, may discourage a change in control of our company. Risks Related to the Notes The Notes rank junior in right of payment to our senior debt and effectively junior to the liabilities of our existing subsidiary or any future subsidiaries. The Notes are subordinated to all of our future senior debt. The indenture governing the Notes does not restrict us or our existing subsidiary or any future subsidiaries from incurring debt (including senior debt) in the future. The incurrence by us or by our existing subsidiary or any future subsidiaries of senior debt, debt and other liabilities will increase the risks described above. The Notes are not secured by any of our assets. In the event we default on any future senior debt or in the event we undergo a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, or similar proceeding, the proceeds of the sale of our assets would first be applied to the repayment of our senior debt before any of those proceeds would be available to make payments on our subordinated debt, including the Notes. Accordingly, upon an acceleration of the Notes in the event of a default, there may be no assets remaining from which claims of the holders of the Notes could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, they might be insufficient to satisfy those claims in full. No payment in respect of the Notes will be permitted during certain periods when an event of default under our senior debt permits the senior debt lenders to accelerate the maturity of our senior debt. The Notes are not guaranteed by our existing subsidiary or any future subsidiaries. As a result, the Notes effectively rank junior in right of payment to all existing and future debt and other liabilities (including trade payables) of our existing subsidiary or any future subsidiaries. There are no restrictive covenants in the indenture for the Notes relating to our ability to incur future indebtedness or complete other transactions. The indenture governing the Notes does not contain any financial or operating covenants or restrictions on the payment of dividends, the incurrence of indebtedness, transactions with affiliates, incurrence of liens or the issuance or repurchase of securities by us or any of our subsidiaries. We therefore may incur additional debt, including secured indebtedness that would be effectively senior to the Notes to the extent of the value of the assets securing such debt, or indebtedness at the subsidiary level to which the Notes would be structurally subordinated. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt, including the Notes offered hereby, or that future working capital, borrowings or equity financing will be available to pay or refinance any such debt. Fluctuations in the price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to convert the Notes and may impact the price of the Notes and make them more difficult to resell. The ability of holders of the Notes to convert the Notes is conditioned on the closing price of our common stock reaching specified thresholds or the occurrence of specified events, such as a fundamental change. If the closing price threshold for conversion of the Notes as set forth in the Indenture is satisfied during a calendar quarter, holders may convert the Notes only during the subsequent calendar quarter. If such closing price thresholds are not satisfied and the other specified events that would permit a holder to convert 38 Notes do not occur, holders would only be able to convert their Notes during the one month period from and including July 1, 2013 to, but excluding, the final maturity date on August 1, 2013. Because the Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock, volatility or depressed prices for our common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of the Notes and could limit the amount of cash payable upon conversion of the Notes. Holders who receive common stock upon conversion of the Notes will also be subject to the risk of volatility and depressed prices of our common stock. The make whole premium that may be payable upon conversion in connection with a fundamental change may not adequately compensate you for the lost option time value of your Notes as a result of such fundamental change. If you convert Notes in connection with a fundamental change, we may be required to pay a make whole premium by increasing the conversion rate applicable to your Notes, as set forth in the Indenture. While these increases in the applicable conversion rate are designed to compensate you for the lost option time value of your Notes as a result of a fundamental change, such increases are only an approximation of such lost value and may not adequately compensate you for such loss. In addition, even if a fundamental change occurs, in some cases there will not be a make whole premium. Because your right to require repurchase of the Notes is limited, the market price of the Notes may decline if we enter into a transaction that does not constitute a fundamental change under the indenture. The term “fundamental change” is limited and may not include every event that might cause the market price of the Notes to decline or result in a downgrade of the credit rating of the Notes. The term “fundamental change” does not apply to transactions in which 100% of the consideration paid for our common stock in a merger or similar transaction is publicly traded common stock. Our obligation to repurchase the Notes upon a fundamental change may not preserve the value of the Notes in the event of a highly leveraged transaction, reorganization, merger or similar transaction. If you hold Notes, you are not entitled to any rights with respect to our common stock, but you are subject to all changes made with respect to our common stock. If you hold Notes, you are not entitled to any rights with respect to our common stock (including, without limitation, voting rights and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on our common stock), but you are subject to all changes affecting the common stock. You will only be entitled to rights on the common stock if and when we deliver shares of common stock to you in exchange for your Notes and in limited cases under the anti-dilution adjustments applicable to the Notes. For example, in the event that an amendment is proposed to our articles of incorporation or bylaws requiring shareholder approval and the record date for determining the shareholders of record entitled to vote on the amendment occurs prior to delivery of the common stock, you will not be entitled to vote on the amendment, although you will nevertheless be subject to any changes in the powers, preferences or special rights of our common stock. We may not have the ability to purchase Notes when required under the terms of the Notes. Holders of Notes may require us to purchase for cash all or a portion of their Notes upon the occurrence of certain specific kinds of fundamental change events. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient financial resources or be able to arrange financing to pay the repurchase price of the Notes on any date that we would be required to do so under the terms of the Notes. Future credit agreements or other agreements relating to our indebtedness might contain provisions prohibiting the redemption or repurchase of the Notes or provide that a change in control constitutes an event of default. If a fundamental change or specified trigger event occurs at a time when we are prohibited from purchasing or redeeming the Notes, we could seek the consent of our lenders to purchase or redeem the Notes or could attempt to refinance this debt. If we do not obtain consent, we could not purchase or redeem the Notes. Our failure to purchase tendered Notes or to redeem the Notes would constitute an event of default under the indenture, which might constitute a default under the terms of our other debt. In such circumstances, or if a fundamental change would constitute an event of default under our senior indebtedness, the subordination provisions of the indenture would possibly limit or prohibit payments to you. The term 39 “fundamental change” is limited to certain specified transactions and may not include other events that might harm our financial condition. In addition, the term “fundamental change” does not apply to transactions in which 100% of the consideration paid for our common stock in a merger or similar transaction is publicly traded common stock. Our obligation to offer to purchase the Notes upon a fundamental change would not necessarily afford you protection in the event of a highly leveraged transaction, reorganization, merger or similar transaction involving us. You should consider the U.S. federal income tax consequences of owning the Notes. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of the conversion of the Notes into a combination of our common stock and cash is uncertain. You are urged to consult your tax advisors with respect to the United States federal income tax consequences resulting from the conversion of Notes into a combination of cash and common stock. You may have to pay taxes with respect to distributions on our common stock that you do not receive. The conversion rate of the Notes is subject to adjustment for certain events arising from stock splits and combinations, stock dividends, cash dividends and certain other actions by us that modify our capital structure. If, for example, the conversion rate is adjusted as a result of a distribution that is taxable to holders of our common stock, such as a cash dividend, you may be required to include an amount in income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, notwithstanding the fact that you do not receive an actual distribution. In addition, holders of the Notes may, in certain circumstances, be deemed to have received a distribution subject to U.S. federal withholding taxes (including backup withholding taxes or withholding taxes for payments to foreign persons). If we pay withholding taxes on behalf of a holder, we may, at our option, set off such payments against payments of cash and common stock on the Notes. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of the Notes and our common stock. In connection with the private placement of our Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions with affiliates of Merrill Lynch. These transactions are expected to offset potential dilution upon conversion of the Notes. In connection with hedging these transactions, such affiliates of Merrill Lynch: • will enter into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock, and may purchase our common stock; and • may enter into, or may unwind, various over-the-counter derivatives and/or purchase or sell our common stock in secondary market transactions (including during any conversion reference period related to a conversion of Notes). Such activities could have the effect of increasing, or preventing a decline in, the price of our common stock. Such effect is expected to be greater in the event we elect to settle converted Notes entirely in cash. The affiliates of Merrill Lynch party to these transactions are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the Notes or termination of the transactions by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock, other of our securities, or other instruments they may wish to use in connection with such hedging. In particular, such hedging modification may occur during any conversion reference period for a conversion of Notes, which may have a negative effect on the value of the consideration received in relation to the conversion of those Notes. In addition, we intend to exercise options we hold under the convertible note hedge transactions whenever Notes are converted. In order to unwind their hedge position with respect to those exercised options, the affiliates of Merrill Lynch party to these transactions expect to sell shares of our common stock in secondary market transactions or unwind various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock during the conversion reference period for the converted Notes. The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock or the Notes will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock and the value of the Notes and, as a result, the number of shares and value of the common stock you will receive upon the conversion of the Notes. In 40 addition, in the event that these transactions fail to offset all of the dilution resulting from the conversion of the Notes, the issuance of additional shares of our common stock as a consequence of such conversion would result in some dilution to our shareholders and could adversely affect the value of our common stock. There is no established trading market for the Notes and no guarantee that a market will develop or that you will be able to sell your Notes. We have not listed the Notes on any national securities exchange or automated quotation system. In addition, we do not know whether an active trading market will develop for the Notes. Future trading prices of the Notes will depend on many factors, including, among other things, prevailing interest rates, the price and volatility in the price of our shares of common stock, our operating results, the market for similar securities and other factors. Generally, the liquidity of, and trading market for, the Notes may also be materially and adversely affected by declines in the market for similar debt securities. Such a decline may materially and adversely affect such liquidity and trading independent of our financial performance and prospects. At the time of the closing of the private placement of the Notes by us, the initial purchasers advised us that they intended to make a market in the Notes. However, the initial purchasers are not obligated to do so and any market-making activity may be discontinued at any time without notice. There can be no assurance that an active or liquid trading market for the Notes will develop. To the extent that an active or liquid trading market does not develop, the liquidity and trading prices for the Notes may be harmed. The conditional conversion feature of the Notes could result in your receiving less than the value of the common stock into which a note is convertible. The Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock only if specified conditions are met. If the specific conditions for conversion are not met, you will not be able to convert your Notes until the one month period from, and including, July 1, 2013 to, but excluding, the final maturity date of the notes on August 1, 2013, and until such time, you may not be able to receive the value of the common stock into which the notes would otherwise be convertible. Certain provisions of Virginia law, and our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for our shareholders to remove our board of directors and management. Certain provisions of Virginia law, the state in which we are incorporated, and our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for our shareholders, should they choose to do so, to remove our board of directors or management. These provisions include: • a provision allowing our board of directors to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without any vote or action by the holders of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of common stock; • a provision allowing the removal of directors only for cause; • the requirement in our bylaws that shareholders provide advance notice when nominating our directors or submitting other shareholder proposals; and • the inability of shareholders to convene a shareholders’ meeting without the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer or a majority of the board of directors first calling the meeting. The price of our common stock may be volatile. In the past, the price of our common stock has experienced volatility due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. The price of our common stock may continue to experience volatility in the future from time to time. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • our operating and financial performance and prospects; • announcement of FDA approval or disapproval of our products or other product-related actions; 41 • decisions by the DEA regarding the assignment of scheduling to our products; • developments involving our discovery efforts and clinical trials; • developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights, including announcements of infringement, interference or other litigation against us or our potential licensees; • developments involving our efforts to commercialize our products, including developments impacting the timing of commercialization; • announcements concerning our competitors, or the biotechnology, pharmaceutical or drug delivery industry in general; • public concerns as to the safety or efficacy of our products or our competitors’ products; • changes in government regulation of the pharmaceutical or medical industry; • changes in the reimbursement policies of third party insurance companies or government agencies; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • developments involving corporate collaborators, if any; • changes in accounting principles; • the loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel; • quarterly variations in key financial performance measures, such as earnings per share, net income and revenue; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by financial analysts; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • sales of our common stock or other actions by investors with significant shareholdings; • general market conditions for pharmaceutical companies; and • domestic and international economic, legal, political and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Any adverse effect upon the trading price of our common stock would, in turn, adversely affect the trading price of the notes. Risks Related to the Merger The pending merger with Shire may create uncertainty for our employees and business partners. On February 20, 2007, we announced that we had entered into a merger agreement with Shire, plc. The merger is currently expected to close early in the second quarter. While the merger is pending, current employees may experience uncertainty about their post-merger roles with Shire, and key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with Shire following the merger. Other parties with which we have or are pursuing relationships may defer further arrangements with us. The merger with Shire is subject to various approvals and may not occur. Consummation of the proposed merger with Shire is subject to the satisfaction of various closing conditions, including approval of the acquisition and an amendment to Shire’s articles of association by Shire’s shareholders, the tender of a majority of the shares of common stock on a fully-diluted basis, the expiration or 42 earlier termination of the Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period and other customary conditions described in the Merger Agreement. We cannot assure you that the merger will be completed in the anticipated time frame or at all. In the event that the proposed merger is not completed: • management’s attention from our day-to-day business may be diverted; • we may lose key employees; • our business relationships may be disrupted as a result of uncertainties with regard to our business and prospects; • we may be required to pay significant transaction costs related to the proposed Merger, such as a transaction termination (break-up) fee of up to $70 million to Shire and reimburse Shire for documented out-of-pocket transaction-related expenses of up to $8 million in the aggregate; and • the market price of shares of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of those shares reflects a market assumption that the proposed merger will be completed. Any such events could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 