Risk Factors In addition to risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business that are common to all businesses, important factors that are specific to our industry and our company could materially impact our future performance and results of operations. We have provided below a list of these risk factors that should be reviewed when considering our securities. These are not all the risks we face and other factors currently considered immaterial or unknown to us may impact our future operations. Risks Relating to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Our Business A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow, liquidity or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments and to implement our business strategy. The price we receive for our oil and natural gas production directly affects our revenues, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities and are subject to wide price fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile and will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production and the volume of our production depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the following: • changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”); • the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil, natural gas and liquefied natural gas; • acts of war or terrorism; • political conditions and events, including embargoes, affecting oil-producing activity; • the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; • the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; • weather conditions; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis but may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. We could be adversely affected by a recession in the United States or global economy. A recessionary economic environment could result in lower demand for oil and natural gas and may also result in less capital available to fund future growth. These factors could negatively impact our profitability or limit our growth. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas, we may periodically enter into oil and gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. For example, in January 2006 we entered into commodity swap and option contracts relating to approximately 14 Bcfe, or 14%, of our production in 2006, 18 Bcfe, or 14%, of our production in 2007 and 11 Bcfe of our anticipated production in 2008. While these contracts are intended to reduce the effects of volatile oil and natural gas prices, they may also limit our potential gains if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the contracts. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • our production is less than expected; • there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery points assumed in the hedge arrangements; or • the counterparty to our hedge contracts fails to perform under the terms of the contracts. Refer to Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about our hedging arrangements. Lower oil and gas prices could negatively impact our ability to borrow. Borrowings under the revolving portion of our Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as amended (the “Credit Agreement”) are currently limited to $500.0 million. Availability is determined periodically at the discretion of the banks and is based in part on oil and gas prices and in part on our proved reserves. The Credit Agreement may limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness based on specified financial covenants, ratios or other criteria. Lower oil and gas prices in the future could result in a reduction in availability and also affect our 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements ability to satisfy these covenants, ratios or other criteria and thus could reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Lower oil and gas prices, over a sustained period of time and without a corresponding decline in the cost of goods and services necessary to conduct our operations, could affect our ability to replace reserves and thus could reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 38% of our total proved reserves were undeveloped and approximately 27% of our total proved reserves were developed non-producing. There can be no assurance that all of those reserves will ultimately be developed or produced. While we have development plans for exploiting and producing all of our proved reserves, there can be no assurance that all of those reserves will ultimately be developed or produced. We are not the operator with respect to approximately 20% of our proved undeveloped and approximately 20% of our proved developed non-producing reserves, so we may not be in a position to control the timing of all development activities. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that all of our undeveloped and developed non-producing reserves will ultimately be produced during the time periods we have planned, at the costs we have budgeted, or at all. Relatively short production periods for our properties subject us to high reserve replacement needs and require significant capital expenditures to replace our reserves at a faster rate than companies whose reserves have longer production periods. Our failure to replace those reserves would result in decreasing reserves and production over time. Unless we conduct successful development, exploitation and exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing oil and natural gas reserves are generally characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. High production rates generally result in recovery of a relatively higher percentage of reserves during the initial few years of production. The vast majority of our current operations are in the Gulf of Mexico. Production from reservoirs in the Gulf of Mexico generally declines more rapidly than from reservoirs in many other producing regions of the United States. Our independent petroleum consultant estimates that, on average, 50% of our total proved reserves are depleted within three years. As a result, our need to replace reserves from new investments is relatively greater than that of producers who recover lower percentages of their reserves over a similar time period, such as those producers who have a portion of their reserves outside the Gulf of Mexico area. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire additional reserves to sustain our current production levels or to grow production at the same rates as we have in the past. In addition, due to the significant time requirements involved with exploration and development activities, particularly for wells in the deepwater or wells not located near existing infrastructure, actual oil and gas production from new wells may not occur, if at all, for a considerable period of time following the commencement of any particular project. Significant capital expenditures are required to replace our reserves. Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows from operations and borrowings under our debt agreements. In order to finance future capital expenditures, we may need to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of additional debt or equity securities, the sale of production payments or other means. These changes in capitalization may significantly affect our financial risk profile. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, prices of oil and gas, and our success in developing and producing new reserves. If revenues were to decrease as a result of lower oil and gas prices or decreased production, and our access to capital were limited, our ability to replace our reserves would be reduced. If our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to fund our capital expenditure budget, we may not be able to access additional debt, equity or other methods of financing on an economic or timely basis to meet our requirements. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we are not able to replace reserves, we may not be able to sustain production. Our future success depends largely upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Unless we replace the reserves we produce through successful development, exploration or acquisition activities, our proved reserves and production will decline over time. By their nature, estimates of undeveloped reserves are less certain. Recovery of undeveloped reserves could require significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Our future oil and natural gas reserves, production and, therefore, our cash flow and net income are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. Competition for oil and natural gas properties and prospects is intense; some of our competitors have larger financial, technical and personnel resources that give them an advantage in evaluating and obtaining properties and prospects. We operate in a highly competitive environment for reviewing prospects, acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors have financial resources that allow them to obtain substantially greater technical expertise and personnel than we have. We actively compete with other companies in our industry when acquiring new leases or oil and gas properties. For example, new leases acquired from the MMS are acquired through a “sealed bid” process and are generally awarded to the highest bidder. Our competitors may be able to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our competitors may also be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects than we are able or willing to pay. On the acquisition opportunities made available to us, we compete with other companies in our industry for such properties through a private bidding process, direct negotiations or some combination thereof. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas in the future, our future revenues and growth may be diminished or restricted. The availability of properties for acquisition depends largely on the divesting practices of other oil and natural gas companies, commodity prices, general economic conditions and other factors we cannot control or influence. We conduct exploration, exploitation and production operations on the deep shelf and in the deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico, which presents unique operating risks. The deep shelf and the deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico are areas that have had limited drilling activity due, in part, to their geological complexity, depth and higher cost to drill and ultimately develop. There are additional risks associated with deep shelf and deepwater drilling that could result in substantial cost overruns and/or result in uneconomic projects or wells. Deeper targets are more difficult to detect with traditional seismic processing. Moreover, drilling costs and the risk of mechanical failure are significantly higher because of the additional depth and adverse conditions, such as high temperature and pressure. For example, the drilling of deepwater wells requires specific types of rigs with significantly higher day rates and limited availability as compared to the rigs used in shallow water. Deepwater wells have greater mechanical risks because the wellhead equipment is installed on the sea floor. Deepwater development costs can be significantly higher than shelf development costs because deepwater drilling requires larger installation equipment; sophisticated sea floor production handling equipment; expensive, state-of-the-art platforms and/or investment in infrastructure. Deep shelf development can also be more expensive than conventional shelf projects because deep shelf development requires more drilling days and higher drilling and service costs due to extreme pressure and temperatures associated with greater depths. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our oil and natural gas exploration activities in the deep shelf, the deepwater and elsewhere will be commercially successful. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our estimates of future asset retirement obligations may vary significantly from period to period and are especially significant since our operations are concentrated in the Gulf of Mexico. We are required to record a liability for the discounted present value of our asset retirement obligations to remove our equipment and restore the land or seabed at the end of oil and natural gas production operations. These obligations are primarily associated with plugging and abandoning wells, removing pipelines, removing and disposing of offshore platforms and site clean up. These costs are typically considerably more expensive for offshore operations as compared to most land based operations due to increased regulatory scrutiny and the logistical issues associated with working in waters of various depths. Estimating the future restoration and removal cost in the Gulf of Mexico is especially difficult because most of the removal obligations are many years in the future, contracts and regulations often have vague descriptions of what constitutes removal, and asset removal technologies and costs are constantly changing. In 2007 we increased our estimates of future asset retirement obligations as a result of our evaluation of recent increased costs incurred for plugging and abandonment activities in the Gulf of Mexico. We may continue to incur significant additional liabilities for asset retirement in future years. We may not be in a position to control the timing of development efforts, associated costs or the rate of production of the reserves of our non-operated properties. As we carry out our drilling program, we will not serve as operator of all planned wells. As a result, we have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of some non-operated properties and their associated costs. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners and our limited ability to influence operations and associated costs of properties operated by others could prevent the realization of our targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. The success and timing of development and exploitation activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including: • the timing and amount of capital expenditures; • the availability of suitable offshore drilling rigs, drilling equipment, support vessels, production and transportation infrastructure and qualified operating personnel; • the operator’s expertise and financial resources; • approval of other participants in drilling wells; • selection of technology; and • the rate of production of the reserves. Our business involves many uncertainties and operating risks that can prevent us from realizing profits and can cause substantial losses. Our development activities may be unsuccessful for many reasons, including adverse weather conditions (such as hurricanes and tropical storms in the Gulf of Mexico), cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Moreover, the successful drilling of a natural gas or oil well does not ensure we will realize a profit on our investment. A variety of factors, both geological and market-related, can cause a well to become uneconomical or only marginally economical. In addition to their costs, unsuccessful wells hinder our efforts to replace reserves. Our business involves a variety of operating risks, including: • fires; • explosions; • blow-outs and surface cratering; 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil and formation water; • natural disasters, such as tropical storms, hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions; • inability to obtain insurance at reasonable rates; • failure to receive payment on insurance claims in a timely manner, or for the full amount claimed; • pipe, cement, subsea well or pipeline failures; • casing collapses; • mechanical difficulties, such as lost or stuck oil field drilling and service tools; • abnormally pressured formations or rock compaction; and • environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. If we experience any of these problems, well bores, platforms, gathering systems and processing facilities could be affected, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations. We could also incur substantial losses as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution and other environmental damage; • clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigation and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repairs to resume operations. Offshore operations are also subject to a variety of operating risks related to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from tropical storms, hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities that could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, exploitation and acquisitions or result in the loss of property and equipment. The geographic concentration of our properties in the Gulf of Mexico subjects us to an increased risk of loss of revenues or curtailment of production from factors affecting the Gulf of Mexico specifically. The geographic concentration of our properties along the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast and adjacent waters on and beyond the outer continental shelf means that some or all of our properties could be affected by the same event should the Gulf of Mexico experience: • severe weather, including tropical storms and hurricanes; • delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities or services; • delays or decreases in the availability of capacity to transport, gather or process production; or • changes in the regulatory environment. Because all our properties could experience the same condition at the same time, these conditions could have a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other operators who have 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements properties over a wider geographic area. In 2006, company-wide production was reduced by approximately 7.8 Bcfe because of the carryover effect of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita that occurred in 2005, and in 2005 we were forced to defer company-wide production of approximately 17.4 Bcfe as a result of Hurricanes Cindy, Dennis, Katrina and Rita. Properties that we purchase may not produce as projected and we may be unable to immediately identify liabilities associated with these properties or obtain protection from sellers against them. Our business strategy includes a continuing acquisition program. Our recent growth is due in part to acquisitions of exploration and production companies, producing properties and undeveloped leasehold interests. Our acquisition of oil and natural gas properties requires assessments of many factors that are inherently inexact and may be inaccurate, including the following: • acceptable prices for available properties; • amounts of recoverable reserves; • estimates of future oil and natural gas prices; • estimates of future exploratory, development and operating costs; • our estimates of the costs and timing of plugging and abandonment; and • our estimates of potential environmental and other liabilities. Our assessment of the acquired properties will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become familiar enough with the properties to fully assess their capabilities and deficiencies. In the course of our due diligence, we have not historically inspected every well, platform or pipeline. Even if we had inspected each of these, our inspections may not have revealed structural and environmental problems, such as pipeline corrosion or groundwater contamination. We may not be able to obtain contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities that it created. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations. We may encounter difficulties integrating the operations of newly acquired oil and gas properties or businesses. Increasing our reserve base through acquisitions is an important part of our business strategy. We may encounter difficulties integrating the operations of newly acquired oil and gas properties or businesses. In particular, we will face significant challenges in consolidating functions and integrating procedures, personnel and operations in an effective manner. The failure to successfully integrate such properties or businesses into our business may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any acquisition we make may involve numerous risks, including: • a significant increase in our indebtedness and working capital requirements; • the inability to timely and effectively integrate the operations of recently acquired businesses or assets; • the incurrence of substantial unforeseen environmental and other liabilities arising out of the acquired businesses or assets, including liabilities arising from the operation of the acquired businesses or assets before our acquisition; • our lack of drilling history in the geographic areas in which the acquired business operates; • customer or key employee loss from the acquired business; • increased administration of new personnel; • additional costs due to increased scope and complexity of our operations; and • potential disruption of our ongoing business. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Additionally, significant acquisitions can change the nature of our operations and business depending upon the character of the acquired properties, which may have substantially different operating and geological characteristics or be in different geographic locations than our existing properties. It is our current intention to continue focusing on acquiring properties with development and exploration potential located in the Gulf of Mexico area. To the extent that we acquire properties substantially different from the properties in our primary operating region or acquire properties that require different technical expertise, we may not be able to realize the economic benefits of these acquisitions as efficiently as with acquisitions within our primary operating region. We may not be successful in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisition we may make. If oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to write down the carrying values and/or the estimates of total reserves of our oil and natural gas properties. Accounting rules applicable to us require that we periodically review the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. We may incur non-cash charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period taken. We may also reduce our estimates of the reserves that may be economically recovered, which could reduce the total value of our reserves. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies – Impairment of oil and natural gas properties” for a discussion of the ceiling test. Our reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and the calculation of the present value of our reserves at December 31, 2007. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies – Oil and natural gas reserve quantities” for a discussion of the estimates and assumptions about our estimated oil and natural gas reserves information reported in Item 1. “Business” and Item 2. “Properties.” In order to prepare our reserve estimates, our independent petroleum consultant projected production rates and timing of development expenditures. Our independent petroleum consultant also analyzed available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary and may not be under our control. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Therefore, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will most likely vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, our independent petroleum consultant may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, drilling results, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercial quantities or quantities sufficient to meet our targeted rate of return. A prospect is a property in which we own an interest or have operating rights and have what our geoscientists believe, based on available seismic and geological information, to be indications of economic quantities of oil or natural gas. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a prospect that is ready to be drilled to a prospect that will require substantial seismic data processing and interpretation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling and completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analysis we perform using data from other wells, more fully explored prospects and/or producing fields will be useful in predicting the characteristics and potential reserves associated with our drilling prospects. To the extent we continue to drill in the deepwater, and as we continue our drilling efforts on deep shelf targets, our drilling activities could become more expensive. In addition, the geological complexity of deepwater and deep shelf formations may make it more difficult for us to sustain our historical rates of drilling success. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will find commercial quantities of oil and natural gas and, therefore, there can be no assurance that we will achieve our targeted rate of return or have a positive rate of return on our investments. Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends substantially on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities, in some cases owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We may be required to shut in wells because of a reduction in demand for our production or because of inadequacy or unavailability of pipelines or gathering system capacity. If that were to occur, then we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until arrangements were made to deliver our production to market. We have, in the past, been required to shut in wells when hurricanes have caused or threatened damage to pipelines and gathering stations. In August 2005, all but three of our operated wells were temporarily shut in as a result of Hurricane Katrina and in September 2005, all of our operated wells were temporarily shut in as a result of Hurricane Rita. In some cases, our wells are tied back to platforms owned by parties who do not have an economic interest in the wells and we cannot be assured that such parties will continue to process our oil and natural gas. Currently, a portion of our oil and natural gas is processed for sale on platforms owned by parties with no economic interest in our wells and no other processing facilities would be available to process such oil and natural gas without significant investment by us. As of December 31, 2007, nine fields, accounting for 107 Bcfe (or 16.8%) of our total proved reserves, are tied back or are planned to be tied back to separate, third-party host platforms. There can be no assurance that the owners of such platforms will continue to process our oil and natural gas production. If any of these platform operators ceases to operate their processing equipment, we may be required to shut in the associated wells. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations and facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the exploration, development, production and transportation of oil and natural gas and operational safety. Future laws or regulations, any adverse change in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations or our failure to 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements comply with existing legal requirements may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to make large and unanticipated capital expenditures to comply with governmental regulations, such as: • land use restrictions; • lease permit restrictions; • drilling bonds and other financial responsibility requirements, such as plugging and abandonment bonds; • spacing of wells; • unitization and pooling of properties; • safety precautions; • operational reporting; • reporting of natural gas sales for resale; and • taxation. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for: • personal injuries; • property and natural resource damages; • well reclamation costs; and • governmental sanctions, such as fines and penalties. Our operations could be significantly delayed or curtailed and our cost of operations could significantly increase as a result of regulatory requirements or restrictions. We are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. It is also possible that a portion of our oil and gas properties could be subject to eminent domain proceedings or other government takings for which we may not be adequately compensated. See Item 1. “Business – Regulation” for a more detailed description of our regulatory risks. Our operations may incur substantial liabilities to comply with environmental laws and regulations. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations: • require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences; • restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit exploration or drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas or that may affect certain wildlife, including marine mammals; and • impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in: • the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties; • incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations; and • the imposition of injunctive relief. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In the past, we have been subject to investigation with respect to allegations that we did not comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Resolution of these matters has required considerable management time and expense. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our industry in general and on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Under these environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination or if our operations met previous standards in the industry at the time they were performed. Our permits require that we report any incidents that cause or could cause environmental damages. See Item 1. “Business – Regulation” for a more detailed description of our environmental risks. We operate a production platform in a National Marine Sanctuary. Our oil and natural gas operations include a production platform located in a National Marine Sanctuary in the Gulf of Mexico that is subject to special federal laws and regulations. Unique regulations related to operations in the Sanctuary include, among other things, prohibition of drilling activities within certain protected areas, restrictions on substances that may be discharged, depths of discharge in connection with drilling and production activities and limitations on mooring of vessels. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations or the imposition of injunctive relief, including cessation of production from wells associated with this platform. As of December 31, 2007, fields associated with this platform had proved reserves of approximately 5.9 Bcfe, representing approximately one percent of our total proved reserves. The loss of members of our senior management could adversely affect us. To a large extent, we depend on the services of our senior management. The loss of the services of any of our senior management, including Tracy W. Krohn, our Founder, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President; W. Reid Lea, our Executive Vice President and Manager of Corporate Development; John D. Gibbons, our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer and Stephen L. Schroeder, our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, could have a negative impact on our operations. We do not maintain or plan to obtain any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. Please read Item 4. “Executive Officers of the Registrant” for more information regarding certain members of our management team. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. The offshore oil and gas industry may experience significant shortages in the availability of certain drilling rigs as well as significant increases in the cost of utilizing drilling rigs. This could delay or adversely affect our exploration and development operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If the unavailability or high cost of rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel were particularly severe in Texas, Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico, we could be materially and adversely affected because our operations and properties are concentrated in those areas. Counterparty credit risk may negatively impact the conversion of our accounts receivables to cash. Substantially all of our accounts receivable result from oil and natural gas sales or joint interest billings to third parties in the energy industry. This concentration of customers and joint interest owners may impact our overall credit risk in that these entities may be similarly affected by any adverse changes in economic or other 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements conditions. In recent years, market conditions resulting in downgrades to credit ratings of energy merchants affected the liquidity of several of our purchasers. We continue to sell oil and natural gas to companies we believe are reasonable credit risks. In some cases, we have required purchasers to post letters of credit or provide other means of support to secure their performance under the purchase contracts. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient or may not be available to cover some liabilities or losses that we may incur. The occurrence of a significant accident or other event not covered in whole or in part by our insurance could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. Our insurance does not protect us against all operational risks. We do not carry business interruption insurance. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. Because third party drilling contractors are used to drill our wells, we may not realize the full benefit of workmen’s compensation laws in dealing with their employees. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities from uninsured or underinsured drilling and operating activities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. We could be exposed to uninsured losses in the future. The substantial insurance claims made by oil and gas producers in the Gulf of Mexico as a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005 caused the cost of insurance to rise dramatically between 2005 and 2006. In July 2007, the Company renewed its insurance policy covering well control, property and hurricane damage at a cost of approximately $23.9 million. The policy limits for well control and hurricane damage are $100 million and $150 million, respectively. The cost of this insurance was $4.0 million for the 2005-2006 period and $28.7 million for the 2006-2007 period. Coverage and deductibility limits also changed during this time frame. We are also exposed to the possibility that we will be unable to buy insurance at any price or that if we do have a claim, the insurance companies will not pay our claim. During the three-year period ended December 31, 2007, we spent approximately $24.0 million to remediate hurricane damage that was not covered by insurance, all of which related to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets and the issuance of shares of common stock in future acquisitions. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by us or by other parties in the public market or the perception that such sales may occur could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, the sale of such shares in the public market could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of common or preferred stock. In addition, in the future, we may issue shares of our common stock in connection with acquisitions of assets or businesses. If we use our shares for this purpose, the issuance could have a dilutive effect on the value of your shares, depending on market conditions at the time of an acquisition, the price we pay, the value of the businesses or assets acquired and our success in exploiting the properties or integrating the businesses we acquire and other factors. Risks Related to Financings Regardless of our currently outstanding debt, substantial acquisitions and exploitation activities could require additional external capital and could change our risk and property profile. In order to finance acquisitions of properties and our exploitation activities, we may need to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of additional debt or equity securities, the sale of production 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements payments or other means. These changes in capitalization may significantly affect our financial risk profile. For instance, in 2006 we entered into a new credit agreement with an initial availability of $987.5 million and we received $307.0 million of net proceeds from the sale of 9,775,000 shares of our common stock, principally in connection with properties acquired by merger in the Kerr-McGee transaction. In 2007, we issued $450 million of 8.25% senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”) subject to the terms of an indenture and amended the Credit Agreement to provide for an increase in the capacity available under our revolving loan facility to $500.0 million from $300.0 million. See Notes 4, 5 and 6 to our consolidated financial statements for additional details about these transactions. Significant acquisitions or other transactions can change the character of our operations and business. The character of the new properties may be substantially different in operating or geological characteristics or geographic location than our existing properties. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain financing or issue debt or equity securities on acceptable terms for any potential future acquisitions or other transactions. We may not be able to generate enough cash flow to meet our debt obligations. We expect our earnings and cash flow to vary significantly from year to year due to the cyclical nature of our industry. As a result, the amount of debt that we can manage in some periods may not be appropriate for us in other periods. In addition, our future cash flow may be insufficient to meet our debt obligations and commitments. Any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. A range of economic, competitive, business and industry factors will affect our future financial performance, and, as a result, our ability to generate cash flow from operations and to pay our debt. Many of these factors, such as oil and gas prices, economic and financial conditions in our industry and the global economy or initiatives by our competitors, are beyond our control. If we do not generate enough cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as: • refinancing or restructuring our debt; • selling assets; • reducing or delaying capital investments; or • seek to raise additional capital. However, any alternative financing plans that we undertake, if necessary, may not allow us to meet our debt obligations. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to obtain alternative financing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our debt obligations could have important consequences. For example, they could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to fund future working capital requirements and capital expenditures, to engage in future acquisitions or development activities, or to otherwise realize the value of our assets; • limit our opportunities because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments of interest and principal on our debt obligations or to comply with any restrictive terms of our debt obligations; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, if we fail to comply with the covenants or other terms of any agreements governing our debt, our lenders will have the right to accelerate the maturity of that debt and foreclose upon the collateral, if any, securing that debt. Realization of any of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Principal Shareholder, Tracy W. Krohn We will be controlled by Tracy W. Krohn as long as he owns a majority of our outstanding common stock, and other shareholders will be unable to affect the outcome of shareholder voting during that time. This control may adversely affect the value of our common stock and inhibit potential changes of control. Tracy W. Krohn controls 40,863,307 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 53.6% of our voting interests as of February 15, 2008. As a result, Mr. Krohn has the ability to control the outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval and other investors, by themselves, will not be able to affect the outcome of any shareholder vote. As a result, Mr. Krohn, subject to any duty owed to our minority shareholders under Texas law, is able to control all matters affecting us, including: • the composition of our board of directors and, through it, any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; • the determination of incentive compensation, which may affect our ability to retain key employees; • any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations; • our acquisition or disposition of assets; • our financing decisions and our capital raising activities; • our payment of dividends on our common stock; and • amendments to our amended and restated articles of incorporation or bylaws. Mr. Krohn is generally not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party. In addition, his concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that might be beneficial to our business. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Mr. Krohn owns a majority of our common stock, and therefore we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. As such, we are not required to comply with certain corporate governance rules of the New York Stock Exchange that would otherwise apply to us as a listed company on that exchange. These rules are generally intended to increase the likelihood that boards will make decisions in the best interests of shareholders. Specifically, we are not required to have a majority of independent directors on our board of directors, and we are not required to have nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees composed of independent directors. Should the interests of Mr. Krohn differ from those of other shareholders, the other shareholders will not be afforded the protections of having a majority of directors on the board who are independent from our principal shareholder. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 