Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business that are common to all businesses, important factors that are specific to our industry and our company could materially impact our future performance and results of operations. We have provided below a list of these risk factors that should be reviewed when considering our securities. These are not all the risks we face and other factors currently considered immaterial or unknown to us may impact our future operations. Risks Relating to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Our Business A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow, liquidity or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments and to implement our business strategy. The price we receive for our oil and natural gas production heavily influences our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities and are subject to wide price fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production and the levels of our production depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the following: • changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC; • the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; • acts of war or terrorism; • political conditions and events, including embargoes, affecting oil-producing activity; • the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; • the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; • weather conditions; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis but may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains. In January 2006, we entered into commodity price hedges in connection with the anticipated financing related to the pending transaction with Kerr-McGee. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile oil and 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements natural gas prices, hedging transactions, depending on the hedging instrument used, may limit our potential gains if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • our production is less than expected; • there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; • the counterparties to our hedge contracts fail to perform the contracts; or • a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts oil or natural gas prices. Refer to Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Recent Events—Transaction with Kerr-McGee” and Note 21 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about the pending transaction with Kerr-McGee. Lower oil and gas prices could negatively impact our ability to borrow. Our current credit facility limits our borrowings to $230.0 million based on our borrowing base. The borrowing base is determined periodically at the discretion of the banks and is based in part on oil and gas prices. Additionally, we may enter into agreements in the future that contain covenants limiting our ability to incur indebtedness in addition to those under our credit facility. These agreements may limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness based on specified financial covenants, ratios or other criteria. Lower oil and gas prices in the future could affect our ability to satisfy these covenants, ratios or other criteria and thus could reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness. We plan to amend our current credit facility in connection with the Kerr-McGee transaction, as described in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Recent Events—Transaction with Kerr-McGee.” Approximately 76% of our total proved reserves are undeveloped or non-producing and there can be no assurance that those reserves will ultimately be developed or produced. Approximately 35% of our total proved reserves are undeveloped and approximately 41% are developed non-producing. Of the proved developed non-producing reserves, approximately 5% are non-producing due to damage caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. While we have a development plan for exploiting and producing all of our proved reserves, there can be no assurance that those reserves will ultimately be developed or produced. We are not the operator with respect to 26% of our proved undeveloped and proved non-producing reserves, so we may not be in a position to control the timing of all development activities. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that all of our undeveloped and non-producing reserves will ultimately be produced at the time periods we have planned, at the costs we have budgeted, or at all. Relatively short production periods for our properties subject us to high reserve replacement needs and require significant capital expenditures to replace our reserves at a faster rate than companies whose reserves have longer production periods. Our failure to replace those reserves would result in decreasing reserves and production over time. Unless we conduct successful development, exploitation and exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing oil and natural gas reserves are generally characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. High production rates generally result in recovery of a relatively higher percentage of reserves from properties during the initial few years of production. The vast majority of our current operations are in the Gulf of Mexico. Production from reservoirs in the Gulf of Mexico generally declines more rapidly than from reservoirs in many other producing regions of the United States. Our independent petroleum consultant estimates that, on average, 50% of our total proved reserves are depleted within 3.6 years. Absent 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements additional acquisitions or discoveries, our net well completions, as evaluated by our independent petroleum consultant, would be reduced from 158 to 85 in the next five years, even though we plan to drill additional development wells and to perform workovers. As a result, our need to replace reserves from new investments is relatively greater than that of producers who recover lower percentages of their reserves over a similar time period, such as those producers who have a portion of their reserves outside the Gulf of Mexico in areas where the rate of reserve production is lower. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire additional reserves to sustain our current production levels or to grow production at rates we have recently experienced. In addition, due to the significant time requirements involved with exploration and development activities, particularly for wells in the deep shelf and deepwater, actual oil and gas production from new wells may not occur, if at all, for a considerable period of time following the commencement of any particular project. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flow and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. Significant capital expenditures are required to replace our reserves. Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows from operations and borrowings under our credit facility. In order to finance future capital expenditures, we may need to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities, the sale of production payments or other means. These changes in capitalization may significantly affect our financial risk profile. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, prices of oil and gas, and our success in developing and producing new reserves. If revenue were to decrease as a result of lower oil and gas prices or decreased production, and our access to capital were limited, we would have a reduced ability to replace our reserves. If our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to fund our capital expenditure budget, we may not be able to access additional bank debt, debt or equity or other methods of financing on an economic basis to meet these requirements. If we are not able to replace reserves, we may not be able to sustain production. Our future success depends largely upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Unless we replace the reserves we produce through successful development, exploration or acquisition activities, our proved reserves and production will decline over time. By their nature, estimates of undeveloped reserves are less certain. Recovery of undeveloped reserves will require significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and income are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. Competition for oil and natural gas properties and prospects is intense; some of our competitors have larger financial, technical and personnel resources that give them an advantage in evaluating and obtaining properties and prospects. We operate in a highly competitive environment for reviewing prospects, acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial resources that allow them to obtain substantially greater technical and personnel resources than we have. We actively compete with other companies in our industry when acquiring new leases or oil and gas properties. For example, new leases acquired from the Minerals Management Service, or MMS, are acquired through a “sealed bid” process and are generally awarded to the highest bidder. Our competitors may be able to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements competitors may also be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects than we are able or willing to pay. On the acquisition opportunities made available to us, we compete with other companies in our industry for properties operated by third parties through a private bidding process, direct negotiations or some combination thereof. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas in the future, our future revenues and growth may be diminished or restricted. The availability of properties for acquisition depends largely on the divesting practices of other oil and natural gas companies, commodity prices, general economic conditions and other factors we cannot control or influence. We conduct exploration, exploitation and production operations on the deep shelf and in the deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico, which presents unique operating risks. The deep shelf and the deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico are areas that have had limited historical drilling activity due, in part, to their geological complexity, depth and higher cost. There are additional risks associated with deep shelf and deepwater drilling that could result in substantial cost overruns and/or result in uneconomic projects or wells. Deeper targets are more difficult to detect with traditional seismic processing. Moreover, drilling expense and the risk of mechanical failure are significantly higher because of the additional depth and adverse conditions such as high temperature and pressure. For example, deepwater wells require specific kinds of rigs with significantly higher day rates than those rigs used in shallow water and those rigs have limited availability. Deepwater wells have greater mechanical risks because the wellhead equipment is installed on the sea floor. Deepwater development costs can be significantly higher than shelf development costs because deepwater drilling requires bigger installation equipment; sophisticated sea floor production handling equipment; expensive, state-of-the-art platforms and/or investment in infrastructure. Deep shelf development can also be more expensive than conventional shelf projects as deep shelf development requires more actual drilling days and higher drilling and services costs due to extreme pressure and temperatures associated with greater drilling depths. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our oil and natural gas exploration activities, in the deep shelf, the deepwater and elsewhere, will be commercially successful. We are not the operator on the properties representing 26% of our proved developed non-producing and proved undeveloped reserves, and therefore, we may not be in a position to control the timing of development efforts, the associated costs, or the rate of production of the reserves. As we carry out our drilling program, we will not serve as operator of all planned wells. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of some non-operated properties or their associated costs. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could prevent the realization of our targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. Approximately 25% of our proved undeveloped reserves and 27% of our proved developed non-producing reserves are on properties operated by others. The success and timing of development and exploitation activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including: • the timing and amount of capital expenditures; • the availability of suitable offshore drilling rigs, drilling equipment, support vessels, production and transportation infrastructure and qualified operating personnel; • the operator’s expertise and financial resources; • approval of other participants in drilling wells; • selection of technology; and • the rate of production of the reserves. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our business involves many uncertainties and operating risks that can prevent us from realizing profits and can cause substantial losses. Our development activities may be unsuccessful for many reasons, including adverse weather conditions (such as hurricanes and tropical storms in the Gulf of Mexico), cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Moreover, the successful drilling of a natural gas or oil well does not ensure we will realize a profit on our investment. A variety of factors, both geological and market-related, can cause a well to become uneconomical or only marginally economical. In addition to their costs, unsuccessful wells can hurt our efforts to replace reserves. Our business involves a variety of operating risks, including: • fires; • explosions; • blow-outs and surface cratering; • uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil and formation water; • natural disasters, such as tropical storms, hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions; • pipe, cement, subsea well or pipeline failures; • casing collapses; • mechanical difficulties, such as lost or stuck oil field drilling and service tools; • abnormally pressured formations; and • environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. If we experience any of these problems, well bores, platforms, gathering systems and processing facilities could be affected, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations. We could also incur substantial losses as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution and other environmental damage; • clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigation and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repairs to resume operations. Offshore operations are also subject to a variety of operating risks peculiar to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from tropical storms, hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, exploitation and acquisitions or result in loss of equipment and properties. The geographic concentration of our properties in the Gulf of Mexico subjects us to an increased risk of loss of revenue or curtailment of production from factors affecting the Gulf of Mexico specifically. The geographic concentration of our properties along the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast and adjacent waters on and beyond the outer continental shelf means that some or all of our properties could be affected by the same event should the Gulf of Mexico experience: • severe weather, including tropical storms and hurricanes; 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities or services; • delays or decreases in the availability of capacity to transport, gather or process production; or • changes in the regulatory environment. Because all our properties could experience the same condition at the same time, these conditions could have a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other operators who have properties over a wider geographic area. In 2005 we were forced to defer company-wide production of approximately 5.7 Bcfe during the third quarter and approximately 11.7 Bcfe during the fourth quarter as a result of Hurricanes Cindy, Dennis, Katrina and Rita. During the three-year period ended December 31, 2005, we spent approximately $6.0 million to remediate hurricane damage that was not covered by insurance of which approximately $5.0 million related to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. Substantial acquisitions and exploitation activities could require significant external capital and could change our risk and property profile. In order to finance acquisitions of properties and our exploitation activities, we may need to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities, the sale of production payments or other means. These changes in capitalization may significantly affect our financial risk profile. For instance, in connection with the pending transaction with Kerr-McGee, we have received financing commitments from certain financial institutions for up to a $1.3 billion senior secured credit facility. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Recent Events—Transaction with Kerr-McGee.” Significant acquisitions or other transactions can change the character of our operations and business. The character of the new properties may be substantially different in operating or geological characteristics or geographic location than our existing properties. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain external funding for any future acquisitions or other transactions or to obtain external funding on terms acceptable to us. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets and the issuance of shares of common stock in future acquisitions. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by us or by other parties in the public market or the perception that such sales may occur could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, the sale of such shares in the public market could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of common or preferred stock. In addition, in the future, we may issue shares of our common stock in connection with acquisitions of assets or businesses. If we use our shares for this purpose, the issuances could have a dilutive effect on the value of your shares, depending on market conditions at the time of an acquisition, the price we pay, the value of the business or assets acquired and our success in exploiting the properties or integrating the businesses we acquire and other factors. Properties that we buy may not produce as projected and we may be unable to identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against them. Our business strategy includes a continuing acquisition program. Our acquisition of oil and natural gas properties requires assessments of many factors that are inherently inexact and may be inaccurate, including the following: • acceptable prices for available properties; • amounts of recoverable reserves; 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • estimates of future oil and natural gas prices; • estimates of future exploratory, development and operating costs; • our estimates of the costs and timing of plug and abandonment; and • our estimates of potential environmental and other liabilities. Our assessment of the acquired properties will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become familiar enough with the properties to fully assess their capabilities and deficiencies. In the course of our due diligence, we have not historically inspected every well, platform or pipeline. Even if we had inspected each of these, our inspections may not have revealed structural and environmental problems, such as pipeline corrosion or groundwater contamination. We may not be able to obtain contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities that it created. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations. We may encounter difficulties integrating the operations of newly acquired oil and gas properties or businesses. We may encounter difficulties integrating the operations of newly acquired oil and gas properties or businesses. In particular, we will face significant challenges in consolidating functions and integrating procedures, personnel and operations in an effective manner. The failure to successfully integrate such properties or businesses into our business may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any future acquisitions we make may involve numerous risks, including: • potential disruption of our ongoing business; • exposure to unknown liabilities; • our lack of drilling history in the geographic areas in which the acquired business operates; • the loss of key members of the acquired businesses following the acquisition; • increased administration of new personnel; and • additional costs due to entering new geographic locations and duplication of key talent. Additionally, significant acquisitions can change the nature of our operations and business depending upon the character of the acquired properties, which may have substantially different operating and geological characteristics or be in different geographic locations than our existing properties. It is our current intention to continue focusing on acquiring properties with development and exploration potential located in the Gulf of Mexico area. To the extent that we acquire properties substantially different from the properties in our primary operating region or acquire properties that require different technical expertise, we may not be able to realize the economic benefits of these acquisitions as efficiently as with acquisitions within our primary operating region. We may not be successful in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions we may make. If oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to write-down the carrying values and/or the estimates of total reserves of our oil and natural gas properties. Accounting rules applicable to us require that we periodically review the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. We may incur non-cash charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period taken. We may also reduce our estimates of the reserves that may be economically recovered, which could have the effect of reducing the total value of 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements our reserves. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies—Impairment of oil and natural gas properties” for a discussion of the ceiling test. Our reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and the calculation of the present value of reserves shown in this report. Please read Item 1 “Business” and Item 2 “Properties” for information about our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In order to prepare the reserve estimates included in this report, our independent petroleum consultant projected production rates and timing of development expenditures. Our independent petroleum consultant also analyzed available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary and may not be in our control. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Therefore, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will most likely vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, our independent petroleum consultant may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, drilling results, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. For example, if natural gas prices decline by $0.10 per Mcf, then the PV-10 value of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2005 would decrease from $2,416.5 million to $2,401.1 million. If oil prices decline by $1.00 per barrel, then the PV-10 value of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2005 would decrease from $2,416.5 million to $2,387.1 million. Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities or quantities sufficient to meet our targeted rate of return. A prospect is a property in which we own an interest or have operating rights and have what our geoscientists believe, based on available seismic and geological information, to be indications of oil or natural gas. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a prospect that is ready to be drilled to a prospect that will require substantial additional seismic data processing and interpretation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion cost or to be economically viable. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analysis we perform using data from other wells, more fully explored prospects and/or producing fields will be useful in predicting the characteristics and potential reserves associated with our drilling prospects. Should we increase our drilling efforts on deepwater and deep shelf targets, our drilling activities will likely become more expensive. In addition, the geological complexity of deepwater and deep shelf formations may make it more difficult for us to sustain our historical rates of drilling 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements success. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will find commercially viable quantities of oil and natural gas and therefore, there can be no assurance that we will achieve our targeted rate of return or have a positive rate of return on investment. Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities, in some cases owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We may be required to shut in wells for a lack of a market or because of inadequacy or unavailability of pipelines or gathering system capacity. If that were to occur, then we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until arrangements were made to deliver our production to market. We have, in the past, been required to shut in wells when hurricanes have caused or threatened damage to pipelines and gathering stations. In August 2005, all but three of our operated wells were temporarily shut in as a result of Hurricane Katrina and in September 2005 all of our operated wells were temporarily shut in as a result of Hurricane Rita. The operator of a major offshore pipeline previously informed us that repairs mandated by the U.S. Department of Transportation require that the pipeline be shut-in for approximately six weeks; however, the estimated pipeline shut-in period has been revised to approximately two to four weeks. The repairs are expected to begin in June 2006. This will result in the deferral, but not the loss, of approximately 0.6 Bcfe (net) of production, which will impact the second and third quarters of 2006. In some cases, our wells are tied back to platforms owned by parties who do not have an economic interest in the well and we cannot be assured that such parties will continue to process our oil and natural gas. In some cases, our wells are tied back to platforms owned by parties with no economic interests in our wells. Currently, a portion of our oil and natural gas is processed for sale on these platforms and no other processing facilities would be available to process such oil and natural gas without significant investment by us. In 2003, we had to shut in a well when the third-party host platform was shut down by its owner. Currently, three of our wells, accounting for 46.9 Bcfe (or 9.5%) of our total proved reserves, are tied back or are planned to be tied back to separate, third-party host platforms. There can be no assurance that the owners of such platforms will continue to operate them. If any of these platforms ceases to operate its processing equipment, we may be required to shut in the associated wells. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations and facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the exploration for, and the development, production and transportation of oil and natural gas, and operating safety. Future laws or regulations, any adverse change in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations or our failure to comply with existing legal requirements may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to make large and unanticipated capital expenditures to comply with governmental regulations, such as: • land use restrictions; • lease permit restrictions; • drilling bonds and other financial responsibility requirements, such as plug and abandonment bonds; 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • spacing of wells; • unitization and pooling of properties; • safety precautions; • operational reporting; and • taxation. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for: • personal injuries; • property and natural resource damages; • well reclamation cost; and • governmental sanctions, such as fines and penalties. Our operations could be significantly delayed or curtailed and our cost of operations could significantly increase as a result of regulatory requirements or restrictions. We are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. It is also possible that a portion of our oil and gas properties could be subject to eminent domain proceedings or other government takings for which we may not be adequately compensated. See Item 1 “Business—Regulation” for a more detailed description of our regulatory risks. Our operations may incur substantial liabilities to comply with environmental laws and regulations. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations: • require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences; • restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and • impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in: • the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties; • incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations; and • the imposition of injunctive relief. We have, in the past, been subject to investigation with respect to allegations that we did not comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Resolution of these matters has required considerable management time and expense. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to reach and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our industry in general and on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Under these environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination or if our operations met previous standards in the industry at the time they were performed. Our permits require that we report any incidents that cause or could cause environmental damages. For instance, as a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, we reported oil spills at different locations. None of these reports have resulted in fines or penalties nor have any adjudicatory actions occurred against us as a result. See Item 1 “Business—Regulation” for a more detailed description of our environmental risks. We operate a production platform in a National Marine Sanctuary. Our oil and natural gas operation includes a production platform located in a National Marine Sanctuary in the Gulf of Mexico that is subject to special federal laws and regulations. Unique regulations related to operations in the Sanctuary include, among other things, prohibition of drilling activities within certain protected areas, restrictions on substances that may be discharged, depths of discharge in connection with drilling and production activities and limitations on mooring of vessels. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations or the imposition of injunctive relief, including cessation of production from wells associated with this platform. During December 2005, our average net production from wells associated with this platform was approximately 10 MMcfe per day, representing less than six percent of our total production for the month. If we are required to curtail or cease production from this platform, it could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and asset value. The loss of senior management could adversely affect us. To a large extent, we depend on the services of our senior management. The loss of the services of any of our senior management, including Tracy W. Krohn, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President and Treasurer; W. Reid Lea, our Executive Vice President and Manager of Corporate Development; Jeffrey M. Durrant, our Senior Vice President of Exploration/Geoscience; Joseph P. Slattery, our Senior Vice President of Operations; or William W. Talafuse, our interim Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, could have a negative impact on our operations. We do not maintain or plan to obtain any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. Please read Item 4 “Executive Officers of the Registrant” for more information regarding the members of our management team. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and exploitation plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or adversely affect our exploitation and exploration operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If the unavailability or high cost of rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel were particularly severe in Texas, Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico, we could be materially and adversely affected because our operations and properties are concentrated in those areas. We must currently schedule rigs as much as four to nine months in advance. Counterparty credit risk may negatively impact the conversion of our accounts receivables to cash. Substantially all of our accounts receivable result from oil and natural gas sales or joint interest billings to third parties in the energy industry. This concentration of customers and joint interest owners may impact our overall credit risk in that these entities may be similarly affected by any adverse changes in economic or other conditions. In recent years, market conditions resulting in downgrades to credit ratings of energy merchants affected the liquidity of several of our purchasers. We continue to sell oil and natural gas to companies we believe are reasonable credit risks. In some cases, we have required purchasers to post letters of credit or provide other means of support to secure their performance under the purchase contracts. Based on the current demand 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements for oil and natural gas, we do not expect that termination of sales to previous purchasers would have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell our production at favorable market prices. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient or may not be available to cover some liabilities or losses that we may incur. The occurrence of a significant accident or other event not fully covered or not covered by our insurance could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. Our insurance does not protect us against all operational risks. We do not carry business interruption insurance. Accordingly, we will not be covered for financial losses incurred as a direct result of temporarily shutting in production during Hurricanes Cindy, Dennis, Katrina and Rita in 2005. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. Our insurance is subject to annual renewal and we do not yet know how the insurance claims for the 2005 hurricanes will impact our future premiums. Because third party drilling contractors are used to drill our wells, we may not realize the full benefit of workmen’s compensation laws in dealing with their employees. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Risks Related to Our Principal Shareholder, Tracy W. Krohn We will be controlled by Tracy W. Krohn as long as he owns a majority of our outstanding common stock and you will be unable to affect the outcome of shareholder voting during that time. This control may adversely affect the value of our common stock and inhibit potential changes of control. Tracy W. Krohn controls approximately 40,752,007 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 61.8% of our voting interests as of March 15, 2006. As a result, Mr. Krohn has the ability to control the outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval and other investors, by themselves, will not be able to affect the outcome of any shareholder vote. As a result, Mr. Krohn, subject to any fiduciary duty owed to our minority shareholders under Texas law, is able to control all matters affecting us, including: • the composition of our board of directors and, through it, any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; • the determination of incentive compensation, which may affect our ability to retain key employees; • any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations; • our acquisition or disposition of assets; • our financing decisions and our capital raising activities; • our payment of dividends on our common stock; • amendments to our amended and restated articles of incorporation or bylaws; and • determinations with respect to our tax returns. Mr. Krohn is generally not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party. In addition, his concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that might be beneficial to our business. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, because Mr. Krohn owns a majority of our common stock, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. As such, we are not required to comply with certain corporate governance rules of the New York Stock Exchange that would otherwise apply to us as a listed company on that exchange. These rules are generally intended to increase the likelihood that boards will make decisions in the best interests of shareholders. Specifically, we are not required to have a majority of independent directors on our board of directors, and we are not required to have nominating and corporate governance and 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements compensation committees composed of independent directors. Should the interests of Mr. Krohn differ from those of other shareholders, the other shareholders will not be afforded the protections of having a majority of directors on the board who are independent from our principal shareholder. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 