Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is subject to a high degree of risk. The risks described below should be carefully considered, as well as the other information contained in this annual report and in the documents incorporated herein by reference. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In such event, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. Risks Related to Our Business Fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results make it difficult to assure future positive cash flows from operations. For the most recent fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, we posted a net loss of $1,839,000 on revenues of $7,378,000, compared to a net loss of $1,391,000 on revenues of $10,168,000 for the year ended September 30, 2008. For the year ended September 30, 2007, we had a net loss of $4,034,000 on revenues of $4,984,000. For the year ended September 30, 2006, we had a net loss of $1,488,000 on revenues of $4,833,000. For the year ended September 30, 2005, we had a net loss of $5,310,000 on revenues of $4,434,000. For the year ended September 30, 2004, we recorded net income of $1,476,000 on revenues of $11,927,000. Since our revenues are primarily dependent upon the receipt of large orders from the military and other governmental organizations, which orders are sporadic and unpredictable, our revenues fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. No assurance can be given that we will generate sales at any specific levels or that any additional sales that may be generated will result in the profitability or viability of our Company. The loss of contracts with U.S. government agencies would adversely affect our revenue. To date, substantially all of our sales have been derived from sales to military and security organizations, such as the U.S. military, and various other governmental law enforcement agencies. While we believe that we will continue to be successful in marketing our products to these entities, there are certain considerations and limitations inherent in sales to governmental or municipal entities such as budgetary constraints, timing of procurement, political considerations, and listing requirements that are beyond our control and could affect our future sales. There is no assurance that we will be able to achieve our targeted sales objectives to these governmental and municipal entities or that we will continue to generate any material sales to these entities in the future. Potential customers may prefer our competitors’ technology and products. The ultra-high intensity lighting industry, in which we operate, is characterized by mature products and established industry participants. We compete with other providers of specialized lights in the United States and abroad who have created or are developing technologies and products that are similar to the products we are selling to many of the same purchasers in our targeted markets. Although we believe that our competitors do not offer products as advanced as ours, competition from these companies is intense. Because we are currently a small company with a limited marketing budget, our ability to compete effectively will depend on the benefits of our technology and on our patents. There is no assurance that potential customers will select our technology over that of a competitor, or that a competitor will not market a competing technology with operating characteristics similar to those owned by us. Our products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by the introduction and market acceptance of competing products, technological advances by current or potential competitors, or other approaches. If such a development were to occur, we might be required to reduce our prices in order to remain competitive and these lower prices could affect our profitability. We compete on the basis of a number of factors in areas in which we have limited experience, including marketing to the military and governmental agencies, and customer service and support. There is no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. 9 Table of Contents Because we have a new marketing and sales team, we may be unable to compete successfully against other companies that have a history and track record in the high-intensity lighting and night vision marketplaces. We have a new marketing and sales team. On July 27, 2009, we entered into an exclusive domestic distribution agreement with Aardrvark Tactical, Inc. (“ATI”) for all of our high intensity illumination systems, SuperVision high-definition night-vision devices and future products developed by us. The customer base covered by the agreement includes all United States military, all United States Federal Law Enforcement, all state and local first responders and all United States based defense contractors. ATI is one of the largest suppliers of non-lethal weapons, riot control, force protection and tactical equipment in the United States to military, law enforcement, federal government and homeland security. ATI’s core business spans from simple distribution of products for police officers to complicated military system integration providing equipment to thousands of military and civilian law enforcement units. The synergy between our two companies will allow us to leverage ATI’s proven sales, marketing and distribution capabilities across the full range of our products. ATI will not carry or offer any products that are competitive to us during the term of our agreement. To date, ATI has represented 40% of our sales. In accordance with the agreement with ATI, we will continue to honor all of the existing master distributor agreements and to expand our international dealer network. Although our officers have experience in the operations and management of various businesses and have experience in the high intensity lighting field, they have limited experience in the management of a company engaged in the high volume sale of high-intensity lighting and night vision. In addition, while we have had success in marketing to certain branches of the U.S. military and to certain other U.S. governmental agencies, we are new to marketing our products to a wider market. There can be no assurance that our current marketing and sales capabilities will enable us to compete successfully against competitors that have a history and track record in the high-intensity lighting and night vision marketplaces. If we do not maintain an effective marketing and sales organization, our business will be adversely affected. The loss of any of our key personnel could adversely affect our business. We depend on the efforts of our senior management, particularly Alan P. Magerman, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and Jeffrey P. Kennedy, our Chief Operating Officer and President. The loss of the services of one of these individuals could delay or prevent us from achieving our objectives. The interests of our current shareholders will be diluted if we seek additional equity financing in the future, and any debt financing that we seek in the future will expose us to the risk of default and insolvency. We are dependent on our ability to obtain sales orders and/or additional equity or debt financing to continue to support planned operations and satisfy obligations. The Company’s marketing activity has been intensified and management remains optimistic about our growth opportunity. However, due to the nature of our business, there is no assurance that we will receive new orders during the quarters that we expect them. Although management believes it can obtain additional financing, there is no certainty that it can. Any equity financing may involve dilution of the interests of our current shareholders, and any debt financing would subject us to the risks associated with leverage, including the possible risk of default and insolvency. We are subject to government regulation which may require us to obtain additional licenses and could limit our ability to sell our products outside the United States. The sale of certain of our products outside the United States is subject to compliance with the United States Export Administration Regulations and potentially International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR). Compliance with government regulations may also subject us to additional fees and costs. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. The need to obtain licenses could limit or impede our ability to ship to certain foreign markets. Although we currently hold the requisite export licenses required under current requirements, future laws and regulations cannot be anticipated that could impact our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products outside the United States, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience production delays if suppliers fail to deliver materials to us, which could reduce our revenue. The manufacturing process for our products consists primarily of the assembly of purchased components. Although we can obtain materials and purchase components from different suppliers, we rely on certain suppliers for our components. If a supplier should cease to deliver such components, this could result in added cost and manufacturing delays and have an adverse effect on our business. 10 Table of Contents Our operations involve evolving products and technological change, which could make our products obsolete. Ultra-high intensity portable illumination products are continuously evolving and subject to technological change. Our ability to maintain a competitive advantage and build our business requires us to consistently invest in research and development. Many of the companies that currently compete in the portable illumination market, or that may in the future compete with us in our market, may have greater capital resources, research and development staffs, facilities and field trial experience than we do. Our products could be rendered obsolete by the introduction and market acceptance of competing products, technological advances by current or potential competitors, or other approaches. We may not have adequate protection of our intellectual property, which could result in a reduction in our revenue if our competitors are able to use our intellectual property. We own the rights to eighteen patents, including 5 design patents and 13 utility patents relating to the design and configuration of our xenon illumination technology and digital lowlight viewing. There is no assurance, however, that our patents will provide competitive advantages for our products or that our patents will not be successfully challenged or circumvented by our competitors. No assurance can be given that our pending patent applications will ultimately be issued or provide patent protection for improvements to our base technology. While we believe that our patent rights are valid, we cannot be sure that our products or technologies do not infringe on other patents or intellectual property or proprietary rights of third parties. In the event that any relevant claims of third-party patents are upheld as valid and enforceable, we could be prevented from selling our products or could be required to obtain licenses from the owners of such patents or to redesign our products to avoid infringement. In addition, many of the processes of our products that we deem significant are not protected by patents or pending patent applications. We regard portions of the designs and technologies incorporated into our products as proprietary, and we attempt to protect them with a combination of patent, trademark and trade secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and similar means. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of our products or to otherwise obtain and use to our detriment information that we regard as proprietary. There is no assurance that the agreements we have entered into with employees or third parties to maintain the confidentiality of our confidential or proprietary information will effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information or provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information or that our confidential or proprietary information will not be independently used by our competitors. Because we currently only have a single line of products, any delay in our ability to market, sell or ship these existing products would adversely affect our revenue. To date, all of our revenues have been generated from the sales of our three NightHunter illumination system products (the NightHunter One, NightHunter II and NightHunter ext), related accessories and SuperVision. In addition to the NightHunter models and SuperVision with tactical illuination, we are now marketing the NightHunter 3. The profitability and viability of our Company is dependent upon our continued ability to sell, manufacture and ship our illumination products and SuperVision, and any delay or interruption in our ability to market, sell, or ship our NightHunter illumination systems or SuperVision and related accessories will have a material adverse affect on our business and financial condition. Further, our future growth and profitability will depend on our ability to both successfully expand NightHunter, SuperVision and other products. While our goal is to develop and commercialize a line of ultra-high intensity illumination systems, and digital low-light viewing devices, new products will require substantial expenditures of money for development and advertising. There is no guarantee that the market will accept these new products. If we are unable to develop and release other products, the future of our Company will depend on the commercial success of our existing NightHunter products and SuperVision. Because we depend on a single manufacturer to make our NightHunter 3 products, any failure by the manufacturer to honor its obligations to us will impair our ability to deliver our products to customers. In January 2003, we entered into a three-year manufacturing agreement with PerkinElmer, a global provider of products and services to, among others, the optoelectronics industries, for the manufacture of NightHunter II products. In the absence of termination notification by either party, the agreement will automatically renew for a twelve-month term. In 2008 we extended this agreement to include NightHunter 3. 11 Table of Contents Under this agreement, PerkinElmer is the sole and exclusive manufacturer of the NightHunter 3 product, and we are not permitted to engage any other manufacturer. In addition PerkinElmer is responsible for testing, packaging and maintaining product inventories. Accordingly, we are dependent upon PerkinElmer for the manufacture and delivery of our new NightHunter 3 product. To date, as a small company with limited resources, our arrangement with PerkinElmer has provided us with the manufacturing, packaging and shipping expertise normally only available to larger firms. However, should PerkinElmer for any reason in the future be unable or unwilling to fully live up to its obligations under our manufacturing agreement, we would lose the ability to manufacture and deliver our principal product until PerkinElmer recommences manufacturing, or until we obtain an alternate manufacturer. While we believe that we could replace PerkinElmer in such an event, any such event would adversely affect our operations and financial results during the period in which we transitioned to another manufacturer. Risks Related to Our Common Stock You may be unable to sell your shares at an adequate price or at all. There is no assurance as to the depth or liquidity of any market for the common stock or the prices at which holders may be able to sell the shares. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. Due to these conditions, there is no assurance that shareholders will be able to sell their shares at or near ask prices or at all. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our common stock could decline. Small, relatively unknown companies can achieve visibility in the trading market through research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish. The lack of published reports by independent securities analysts could limit the interest in our common stock and negatively affect our stock price. We do not have any control over the research and reports these analysts publish or whether they will be published at all. If any analyst who does cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If any analyst ceases coverage of our Company or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation contain certain provisions that could impede a non-negotiated change in control. In particular, without shareholder approval we can issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with rights and preferences determined by the board of directors. These provisions could make a hostile takeover or other non-negotiated change in control difficult, through which takeover or change of control could be at a premium to the then-current stock price. The future issuance of additional common and preferred stock could dilute existing shareholders. We are currently authorized to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of common stock. To the extent that common shares are available for issuance, our board of directors has the ability, without seeking shareholder approval, to issue additional shares of common stock in the future for such consideration as the board of directors may consider sufficient. The issuance of additional common stock in the future will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of the common stock held by our existing shareholders. We are also authorized to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights and preferences of which may be designated in series by the board of directors. Such designation of new series of preferred stock may be made without shareholder approval and could create additional securities which would have dividend and liquidation preferences over our common stock. Preferred shareholders could adversely affect the rights of holders of common stock by: • exercising voting, redemption and conversion rights to the detriment of the holders of common stock; • receiving preferences over the holders of common stock or surplus funds in the event of our dissolution or liquidation; • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; and • discouraging bids for our common stock. 12 Table of Contents We do not plan to pay any cash dividends on our common stock. We do not plan to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any decision to pay dividends is within the discretion of the board of directors and will depend upon our profitability at the time, cash available and other factors. As a result, there is no assurance that there will ever be any cash dividends or other distributions on our common stock. The exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants would dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders. There are currently outstanding stock options and warrants entitling the holders to purchase 5,281,000 shares of our common stock, including a number of options granted to directors, officers, employees and consultants that are subject to vesting conditions. These options and warrants have exercise prices ranging from $0.50 per share to $5.75 per share. It is likely that many of the holders of these options and warrants will exercise and sell shares of our common stock when the stock price exceeds their exercise price. Substantial option and warrant exercises and subsequent stock sales by our option and warrant holders would significantly dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders. Future sales of common stock by our existing shareholders and option and warrant holders could cause our stock price to decline. The release into the public market of a large number of freely tradable shares and restricted securities that are now eligible or subsequently become eligible for public resale under Rule 144 could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The perception among investors that these sales may occur could produce the same adverse effect on our market price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 