D. Risk Factors The following risk factors could materially and adversely affect our future operating results, and could cause actual events to differ materially from those predicted in our forward-looking statements relating to our business. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Business We depend on growth in the end markets that use our products. If these markets do not grow as we expect, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our continued success will depend in large part on the growth of various industries that use power management semiconductors, including the consumer, computer and communications markets, and on general economic growth. Factors affecting these markets as a whole could have an adverse impact on our end customers and, as a result, have an adverse impact on us. These factors include: • recessionary periods or periods of reduced growth in our end customers’ markets; • the inability of our end customers to adapt to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards; • the possibility that our end customers’ products may become obsolete or the failure of our end customers’ products to gain widespread commercial acceptance; and • the possibility of reduced consumer demand for our end customers’ products. The global credit and financial markets experienced extreme volatility and disruptions during the second half of 2008 and continued into 2009, including decreased consumer confidence, lower economic growth, volatile energy costs, increased unemployment rates and uncertainty about economic stability. As a result, the growth in the end markets that use our products was reduced. In 2010, the global economy started to recover, but the recovery was interrupted by the Euro debt crisis that occurred in the first half of 2011. If our end markets do not grow as we expect, our business and results of operations would be harmed. 5 Table of Contents Our future growth depends in part on expanding our market share with leading ODMs and OEMs. If we cannot expand our market share with leading ODMs and OEMs, our ability to grow will be limited. We intend to grow our revenue from leading computing, consumer and communications electronics ODMs and OEMs. We anticipate that these efforts will require us to make substantial investments in research and development to commercialize innovative products that address market demands. These efforts may not result in our products being incorporated into an end customer’s product. We also expect that our target end customers would place considerable pressure on us to meet their tight development schedules. In addition, these customers often require extensive support, which may require us to significantly expand our customer support organization. We may have to devote a substantial amount of our limited resources to these efforts, which could distract us from or delay our completion of other important projects. Delays in these projects could impair our relationships with existing customers and negatively impact sales. If we cannot continue to attract leading ODMs and OEMs in the future, our ability to grow will be limited. The average selling prices of our products have historically declined over time and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross margins. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, the average selling prices of our products have historically declined over time. In the past, we have reduced the average selling prices of our products in anticipation of competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and other factors. For example, we compete for the sale of most of our linear products on a quarterly basis with a critical factor being price. We expect that we will have to reduce prices in the future for our products. Reductions in our average selling prices to one customer could also impact our average selling prices to other customers. Our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects will suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our costs or developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross margins. If we are unable to execute on our plan to build a second fab, our ability to grow our revenue and improve our results of operations will be negatively impacted. In order to support our growth, we are building a second fab pursuant to an investment agreement between two of our subsidiaries and Shanghai ZiZhu Science-based Industrial Park Development Company, or ZiZhu Development. We may incur cost overruns in the construction of the second fab, which may cause us to incur more expenses than we currently project. There are a number of events that could delay the development of our second fab or increase the costs of building and equipping it in accordance with our plans. Such potential events include, but are not limited to: • shortages and late delivery of building materials and facility equipment; • delays in the delivery, installation, commissioning and qualification of our manufacturing equipment; • failures or delays in securing the necessary governmental approvals; • seasonal factors, such as a long and intensive wet season that limits construction; • labor disputes; • design or construction changes with respect to building spaces or equipment layout; and • technological, capacity and other changes to our plans for our second fab necessitated by changes in market conditions. Furthermore, delays in building and equipping our second fab or our inability to execute on our plan to build a second fab could negatively impact our ability to grow our revenue and improve our gross margins. This could also cause us to continue to increase our dependence on third-party foundries to manufacture our products, which could result in the loss or delayed receipt of earnings or an increase in financing costs, either of which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Delays in building and equipping our second fab or our inability to execute on our plan to build a second fab may also cause us not to meet our obligations under our investment agreement with ZiZhu Development, which would subject us to a number of significant adverse consequences including, but not limited to, loss of eligibility for all the favorable tax rebates and other incentives enjoyed by us under our investment agreement with ZiZhu Development and return of favorable tax rebates and other incentives. We may not sustain our recent revenue growth. We have experienced recent revenue growth due primarily to growth in sales of all categories of IC products that we sell across all our target markets. For example, our revenue increased from $132.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2010 to $139.9 million in the year ended December 31, 2011. However, in the future we may not continue to experience a similar rate of revenue growth, if any. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future operating performance. 6 Table of Contents Our results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance. Our revenue, expenses and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. Historically, the following factors have caused our revenue, expenses and results of operations to fluctuate: • cyclicality in the semiconductor industry; • seasonality in the sales of our products, including a general tendency for slower business during the first quarter and, to a lesser extent, the fourth quarter; • our distributors’ and end customers’ sales outlook, purchasing patterns and inventory adjustments based on general economic conditions or other factors; • changes in the relative mix of our product sales, which have different average selling prices and gross margins; • the timing of expansion and development of our facilities; • the loss of our end customers or distributors or a significant reduction or postponement of orders from our end customers or distributors; • the timing of our new product introductions and the qualification of those products by our end customers; • the timing and duration associated with our planned and unplanned fab maintenance; • inventory write-downs, including write-downs due to obsolete inventory; • a high number of days sales outstanding necessitating a write-off in our accounts receivable; and • sudden declines in our average selling prices due to competitive pressures caused by factors such as new product introductions or price reductions on competitive products. In addition to the above factors, which may continue to cause our results of operations to fluctuate in the future, we expect that our revenue, expenses and results of operations may fluctuate in the future upon the occurrence of one or more of the following factors: • our inability to accurately forecast distributor and end customer demand and develop products that our distributors and end customers purchase in quantity; • our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of equipment and raw materials in a timely manner and at reasonable prices; • our reliance on third-party manufacturers; • the build-out of our second fab and the amount and timing of the associated payments; • changes in manufacturing yields; • our inability to develop new process technologies and achieve volume production using these technologies; • changes in exchange rates and interest rates; • changes in domestic and international tax laws; and • changes in geopolitical stability, especially changes affecting China, Taiwan, Japan, South Korea and Asia in general. Due to the factors noted above and other risks discussed in this section, many of which are beyond our control, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons to predict our future financial performance. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our reliance on distributors to sell substantially all of our products subjects us to a number of risks. We sell substantially all of our products to distributors, who in turn sell to our end customers. Our distributors typically offer power management semiconductors from several different companies, including our direct competitors. These distributors assume collection risk and provide logistical services to end customers, including stocking our products. We believe that our success will continue to depend upon maintaining our relationships with distributors. Our reliance on distributors subjects us to a number of risks, including: • potential reduction or discontinuation of sales of our products by our distributors; • failure by our distributors to devote resources necessary to sell our products at the prices, in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect; 7 Table of Contents • our distributors focusing their sales efforts on products of our competitors; • dependence upon the continued viability and financial resources of our distributors, some of which are small organizations with limited working capital and all of which are subject to general economic conditions and conditions within the semiconductor industry; • dependence on the timeliness and accuracy of shipment forecasts and resale reports from our distributors; • management of relationships with our distributors, which may deteriorate as a result of conflicts with our efforts to sell directly to our end customers; and • termination of our agreements with our distributors which are generally terminable by either party on short notice. If any significant distributor becomes unable or unwilling to promote and sell our products, or if we are not able to renew our contracts with our distributors on acceptable terms, we may not be able to find a replacement distributor on reasonable terms, in a timely manner or at all and our business could be harmed. The majority of our revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars and most of our expenses are denominated in RMB; therefore, appreciations in the value of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the current policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a managed band based on market supply and demand and by reference to a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximately 23.9 % appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and December 31, 2011. Recently, the People’s Bank of China decided to take further steps to allow additional fluctuation of the RMB. Although the majority of our revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars, most of our expenses are denominated in RMB. We use the U.S. dollar as the reporting currency for our financial statements. Any significant revaluation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenue, earnings and financial position. For example, based on our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011, a 1.0% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would result in an estimated increase of approximately $0.9 million in our costs and expenses, and a 1.0% appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would result in an estimated decrease of approximately $0.9 million in costs and expenses. In addition, to the extent that we need to convert the U.S. dollars we receive from our IPO into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB we receive from the conversion. Claims by third parties that we have infringed their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs, reduce sales of our products and cause our results of operations to suffer. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we or our customers may be subject to claims of infringement from time to time or otherwise become aware of potentially relevant patents or other intellectual property rights held by other parties that may cover some of our technology, products and foundry services or those of our end customers. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights which has resulted in protracted and expensive arbitration and litigation for many companies. Patent litigation has increased in recent years owing to increased assertions made by intellectual property licensing entities and increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in our markets. Any litigation or arbitration regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. We have in the past and may from time to time in the future become involved in litigation that requires our management to commit significant resources and time. For example, in 2007, Power Integrations, Inc., a San Jose, California-based analog semiconductor company, or Power Integrations, filed a lawsuit against us alleging that certain controller chips produced and sold by our subsidiaries infringed certain patents held by Power Integrations. We entered into a final court-supervised settlement with Power Integrations in February 2009 under which we were not obligated to pay Power Integrations any monetary damages, but we agreed that we would not sell directly or indirectly in the U.S. or knowingly assist others to sell in the U.S. certain products that we did not sell in the U.S. prior to the settlement. Also, we have received letters from time to time regarding possible infringement of intellectual property by certain of our products, including a letter in August 2009 from Flextronics International Limited and its subsidiaries, or Flextronics, alleging infringement by certain of our products of a U.S. patent owned by a Flextronics subsidiary. In October 2009, we offered a one-time payment to Flextronics in exchange for a release of any claims of infringement relating to such products. In September 2010, we received additional correspondence from Flextronics alleging infringement of the same intellectual property by another one of our products and expressing its interest in resuming negotiations. After negotiations with Flextronics, we reached a settlement in May 2011 pursuant to which Flextronics agreed to grant us a license for certain of its intellectual property in exchange for a combination of upfront cash payments to, discounts on future purchases of our products by and royalty payments to Flextronics subject to a certain royalty rate for sales of certain products in all countries. Because of the complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of litigation generally, any intellectual property arbitration or litigation involves significant risks. 8 Table of Contents Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling products or using technology that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property; • incur significant legal expenses; • pay monetary damages to the party claiming infringement; • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and • attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify our end customers and independent distributors in some circumstances against liability arising from claims that our products infringe or otherwise violate third party intellectual property rights. Any such claims or actions against our end customers or distributors could require us to incur significant expenses in responding to these claims or actions and to pay substantial damages, either of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may be unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. We believe that the protection of our intellectual property rights will continue to be important to the success of our business. We currently rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. In particular, the intellectual property laws of China are relatively new and less protective of intellectual property rights than the laws of the United States. Historically, PRC courts often have not enforced the intellectual property laws of China to the same degree United States courts might enforce the intellectual property laws of the United States. In addition, some of our personnel may terminate their employment with us, join our competitors and breach their confidentiality agreements with us. We cannot be certain that we will obtain sufficient patent protection for our technology or that the patents that we do obtain will not be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or declared invalid or unenforceable. If we are unable to successfully protect our intellectual property, our ability to compete will be adversely affected. We manufacture our products based on our estimates of customer demand, and if our estimates are incorrect our financial results could be negatively impacted. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders, and we do not have long-term contracts with our distributors and other customers. In addition, our customers may cancel purchase orders or defer the shipments of our products. Due to the lead time to build a product, we manufacture our products according to our estimates of customer demand in advance of receiving specific purchase orders. This process requires us to make multiple demand forecast assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. If we overestimate customer demand, we may manufacture products that we may not be able to sell. As a result, we would have excess inventory, which would harm our results of operations. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if sufficient manufacturing capacity were unavailable, we would forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. If we cannot compete successfully in our industry, our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our markets are highly competitive and we face significant competition. We compete with global analog semiconductor providers, such as Advanced Analog Technology, Inc.; Diodes, Incorporated; Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc.; Global Mixed-Mode Technology Inc.; Micrel, Inc.; Monolithic Power Systems, Inc.; National Semiconductor Corporation; O2Micro International Limited; ON Semiconductor Corporation; Rohm Co., Ltd.; Power Integrations, Inc.; Richtek Technology Corporation; On-Bright Electronics Co., Ltd.; STMicroelectronics N.V. and Texas Instruments Incorporated. Some of these companies have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and management resources than we have. As a result, these companies may be able to compete more successfully over a longer period of time than we can. Price is a crucial area of competition and intense competition can at times lead to significant pricing pressure that may cause unexpected declines in our average selling prices. In addition, our ability to compete successfully depends to some extent upon factors outside of our control, including import and export controls, exchange controls, exchange rate fluctuations, interest rate fluctuations and political developments. If we cannot compete successfully, our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry. Our industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, uncertain product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has, from time to time, experienced significant and sometimes prolonged, downturns. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any future downturns in the semiconductor industry may reduce our revenue and result in us having excess inventory. If we are unable to put the wafer manufacturing facilities we were contractually committed to build in operation within a certain period of time, we may lose certain assets and suffer other adverse consequences, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In August 2010, two of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, BCD Shanghai and BCD (Shanghai) Micro-Electronics Ltd., or BCD (Shanghai) ME, entered into an investment agreement with ZiZhu Development to construct wafer manufacturing facilities in the Shanghai ZiZhu Science-based Industrial Park, or ZiZhu Science Park. In accordance with the agreement, BCD (Shanghai) ME is required to start construction before the end of 2010, and finish all construction and formally put the facilities into operation by the end of 2012. Furthermore, all parties agreed that the investment scale of BCD (Shanghai) ME will be determined based on its registered capital and occupied property. We entered into an agreement for the construction of our second fab and began construction of our second fab in November 2010. We expect to complete construction of our second fab in the first half of 2012. If we fail to put the wafer manufacturing facilities we constructed in operation within the timeframe mentioned above, we may be subject to a number of significant adverse consequences including, but not limited to, loss of eligibility for all favorable tax rebates and other incentives enjoyed by us under our investment agreement with ZiZhu Development and return of favorable tax rebates and other incentives. Furthermore, ZiZhu Development may repossess any land that is not developed by the end of 2012. If these consequences were to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. If we fail to consistently anticipate trends in technology development, we may be unable to maintain or increase our revenue and operating margins. If we are unable to anticipate the trends in technology development in our industry and rapidly develop and implement new and innovative technology, we may not be able to produce sufficiently advanced products at competitive prices and in a timely manner. In addition to innovation at the IC level, our business is also characterized by a requirement to innovate with respect to process technology to deliver optimal product performance at a low cost. If we are unable to keep pace with advances in process technology, our products may not perform at levels comparable to competitive offerings. As the life cycle for a particular technology matures, the average selling price falls. Accordingly, unless we continually produce sufficiently advanced products at competitive prices, our customers may choose to purchase products from our competitors and the average selling prices of our products may fall, either of which would adversely affect our business and operating margins. We may be unable to make the research and development investments necessary to expand our business and meet our strategic objectives. We must continue to make investments in research and development in order to develop and bring to market new and enhanced technologies and products and, in particular, to create more sophisticated and differentiated products which carry higher gross margins. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is necessary to remain competitive and deliver products to satisfy demand. If we are unable to effectively manage our resources in anticipation of the expected seasonality of our revenue, our quarterly results of operations may suffer. Because we provide power management ICs to the consumer electronics market, our business is subject to seasonality. We typically experience decreased revenue, fab utilization and gross margins in the first quarter and, to a lesser extent, in the fourth quarter of each year. If we or our customers are left with excess inventory due to seasonality, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. 10 Table of Contents Our sales cycles can be long, which could result in uncertainty and delays in generating revenue. Our sales cycles vary substantially and can range from three months to two years. In addition, even after we make an initial product shipment, it may take our end customer several more months to reach full production of its product. As a result of these long sales cycles, we may be required to invest substantial time and incur significant expenses in advance of the receipt of any product order and related revenue. As a result, orders ultimately received may not meet our expectations with respect to timing, product, volume, price or other terms, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and cause our actual results to vary from our forecasts. Defects and poor performance in our products could lead to an increase in our costs, a loss of customers or a delay in market acceptance of our products. Our analog products are complex and may contain undetected errors or failures, especially when first introduced or as new versions are released. These errors could cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts and cause significant customer relations and business reputation problems. If we deliver products with errors, defects or bugs, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be adversely affected. Furthermore, errors or defects may arise from raw materials supplied by third parties that are beyond our detection or control, which could lead to additional customer returns or product warranty claims. Defects could also lead to liability for defective products as a result of lawsuits against us or against our customers. A successful product liability claim could require us to make significant damage payments. OEMs and ODMs generally expect suppliers to provide warranties for their products and look to them for contributions when faced with product liability claims or recalls. We generally provide such warranties to our OEMs and ODMs for product defects. A successful warranty or product liability claim against us, or a requirement that we participate in a product recall, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we lose one or more of our key personnel or if we are unable to recruit and retain skilled personnel, our operations could be disrupted and the growth of our business could be delayed or restricted. Our success depends on the continued service of our key executive officers and our design engineering staff. We do not carry key person insurance on any of our personnel. If we lose the services of any of our key executive officers, it could be difficult to find, relocate and integrate adequate replacement personnel into our operations. Furthermore, if we lose the services of key members of our engineering staff, it could be difficult to locate, hire and integrate design and process engineers with comparable analog design and process technology experience and educational background. Any such loss of personnel could adversely affect our operations and the growth of our business. We will need to hire an increased number of experienced executives, engineers and other skilled employees in the future to implement our growth plans. There is intense competition for the services of these personnel in the semiconductor industry. In addition, we expect demand for skilled and experienced personnel in China to increase in the future as new analog design and wafer fabrication facilities and other similar high technology businesses are established there. Furthermore, analog engineers are in great demand and short supply worldwide. If we are unable to retain our existing personnel, particularly our design engineers, or attract, assimilate and retain new experienced personnel in the future, our operations could become disrupted and the growth of our business could be delayed or restricted. Our rapid growth has presented significant challenges to our management and administrative systems and resources, and we may experience difficulties managing our operations, particularly as we take on additional responsibilities as a public company in the United States, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our revenue grew from $69.7 million in 2006 to $139.9 million in 2011. On December 31, 2006, we had 826 employees and on December 31, 2011 we had 1,287 employees. During this time, we enhanced and upgraded our fab, assembled our design and management teams, developed our distributor relationships and developed outsourcing relationships with foundries. This expansion has presented, and continues to present, significant challenges for our management and administrative systems and resources. If we fail to develop and maintain management and administrative systems and resources sufficient to keep pace with our planned growth or to handle the additional responsibilities associated with our being a public company in the United States, we may experience difficulties managing our growth and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Acquisitions that we may pursue and consummate and strategic alliances that we may enter into may harm our results of operations, cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities or dilute our shareholders. We may in the future acquire, invest in, or enter into strategic alliances relating to other businesses, products or technologies. Successful acquisitions and alliances in the semiconductor industry are difficult to accomplish because they require, among other things, efficient integration and alignment of product offerings and manufacturing operations and coordination of selling and marketing and research and development efforts. The difficulties of integration and alignment may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, the complexity of the technologies being integrated and aligned and the necessity of integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. The integration and alignment of operations following an acquisition or alliance requires the dedication of management resources that may distract attention from day-to-day operations, and may disrupt key research and development, marketing or sales efforts. In addition, we may issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions or alliances, which could be dilutive to existing shareholders. We may also incur debt or assume contingent liabilities in connection with acquisitions and alliances, which could harm our results of operations. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company, diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have no direct or limited prior experience, the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company, unanticipated costs and, in the case of the acquisition of financially troubled businesses, challenges as to the validity of such acquisitions from third party creditors of such businesses. The dissolution of BCD Shanghai, one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, may result in the occurrence of material liabilities and other adverse consequences that would affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because of changes in our strategy and business needs, we filed documents with the relevant PRC authorities to dissolve BCD Shanghai starting in August 2010, but the dissolution process has not been completed as of the date of this Annual Report. During the process of dissolution, BCD Shanghai must pay off all of its liabilities, including, but not limited to, its debts, taxes due, outstanding compensation owed to employees and damages. If BCD Shanghai fails to meet the entirety of its liabilities prior to dissolution, we, BCD Shanghai’s sole shareholder, will be required to meet all of its outstanding liabilities prior to dissolution on behalf of BCD Shanghai. In October 2010, BCD Shanghai obtained the approval for its dissolution from the Shanghai Municipal Commission of Commerce, which was delegated the power to approve and manage foreign-invested enterprises, including the establishment and dissolution of semiconductor companies, by the Ministry of Commerce of the PRC under the Notice on Delegating the Examination and Approval Power for Foreign Investment promulgated on June 10, 2010. As of December 31, 2011, the dissolution of BCD Shanghai was near completion, pending approval by the State Administration of Foreign Exchange for the remittance of the paid-in capital of BCD Shanghai to us. Global or regional economic, political and social conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. External factors such as potential terrorist attacks, acts of war, financial crises, trade friction or geopolitical and social turmoil in those parts of the world that serve as markets for our products, such as China, Taiwan or South Korea, or elsewhere could significantly adversely affect our business and results of operations. These uncertainties could make it difficult for our customers and us to accurately plan future business activities. More generally, these geopolitical, social and economic conditions could result in increased volatility in worldwide financial markets and economies that could adversely impact our sales. We are not insured for losses or interruptions caused by terrorist acts or acts of war. The occurrence of any of these events or circumstances could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our operations and business could be significantly harmed by natural disasters. Our fab, and the third party foundry fab facilities that we currently make use of, are located in China and Taiwan, which are located near seismically active regions where earthquakes and other natural disasters, such as floods and typhoons may occur. We cannot be certain that the precautions we have taken will be adequate to protect our facilities in the event of a major earthquake, flood, typhoon or other natural disaster, and any resulting damage could seriously disrupt our production and result in reduced revenue. In addition, many of our customers and suppliers are also located in China and other regions susceptible to natural disasters, such as the magnitude-9.0 earthquake and resulting tsunami in Japan in March 2011 that caused significant property damage and loss of life. A natural disaster could cause production delays due to supply interruptions, or a decline in the demand for our products by our customers. Although we maintain insurance for some of the damage that may be caused by natural disasters, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and would not cover us for lost business. As a result, a natural disaster in China could severely disrupt the operation of our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents As a public company, we are obligated to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the United States securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. These requirements apply to us for the first time in connection with this Annual Report. While our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2011, our management may later conclude that our internal control is not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes in the future that our internal control is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may disagree. If our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our internal control over financial reporting is designed, documented, operated or reviewed, or if the independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently from the way we do, then they may issue an adverse or qualified opinion. Any of these outcomes could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business, damage our reputation and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Prior to our IPO in February 2011, we were a privately-held company with limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures. We have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur significant expenses and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We face risks related to health epidemics and outbreaks of contagious diseases, including avian flu, SARS and H1N1 flu. There have been reports of outbreaks of avian flu and H1N1 flu, also known as swine flu, in certain regions of Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Africa in the past several years. An outbreak of avian flu or swine flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Additionally, a recurrence of SARS, similar to the occurrence in 2003, which affected China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam and certain other countries, would also have similar adverse effects. Since substantially all of our operations and substantially all of our customers and suppliers are currently based in Asia, an outbreak of avian flu, SARS, swine flu or other contagious diseases in Asia or elsewhere, or the perception that such an outbreak could occur, and the measures taken by the governments of countries affected, including China, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Manufacturing Our manufacturing processes are complex and potentially vulnerable to impurities and other disruptions, which could significantly increase our costs and delay product shipments to our customers. Our manufacturing processes are complex and demand a high degree of precision. We may experience difficulties in the fabrication process, such as dust and other impurities or defects with respect to the equipment or facilities used, our yields may be lower, our product quality could suffer, production could be interrupted or we could lose products in process. If any of these events was to occur, our manufacturing capacity utilization rates may decrease, our costs may significantly increase and we may face delays in shipping our products. We may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, manufacturing capacity constraints, fab construction delays, transferring production to our other facilities, upgrading or expanding existing manufacturing facilities or changing our manufacturing technologies, any of which could result in a loss of future revenue or increased costs. If our fab utilization declines, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our capacity utilization affects our results of operations because a certain percentage of our costs are fixed. Accordingly, if our fab is not fully utilized, we have less revenue for each fixed dollar of costs, which impacts our gross margins and harms our results of operations. We rely on subcontractors for packaging and testing, which may adversely affect our results of operations. The packaging and testing of semiconductors are complex processes requiring, among other things, a high degree of technical skill and advanced equipment. We primarily outsource our semiconductor packaging and testing to subcontractors, which are located in China. We depend on these subcontractors to package and test our products with acceptable quality and yield levels. If our subcontractors experience problems in packaging and testing our products or experience prolonged quality or yield problems, our results of operations would be adversely affected. If we lose the services of a particular subcontractor that packages or tests a significant portion of our products or if that subcontractor raises prices to an unacceptable level, we will be required to qualify other subcontractors, which would be time consuming and cause us to incur additional costs. In addition, even if we qualify alternate subcontractors, those subcontractors may not be able to meet our delivery, quality or yield requirements, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to obtain raw materials and spare parts in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost, our production schedules could be delayed and our costs could increase. We depend on suppliers of raw materials, such as silicon wafers, gases, chemicals and spare parts, in order to maintain our fabrication processes. To maintain operations, we must obtain from our suppliers sufficient quantities of quality raw materials and spare parts at acceptable prices and in a timely manner. The most important raw material used in our production processes is silicon in the form of raw wafers. In 2011, we purchased all of our raw wafers from six suppliers. A significant portion of our wafers are sourced directly or indirectly from outside of China. From time to time, we may need to reject raw materials and parts that do not meet our specifications, resulting in potential delays or declines in output. Furthermore, problems with our raw materials may give rise to compatibility or performance issues in our products, which could lead to an increase in customer returns or product warranty claims. If the supply of raw materials and necessary spare parts is substantially reduced or if there are significant increases in their prices, we may incur additional costs to acquire sufficient quantities of these materials and parts to maintain our production schedules and commitments to customers. 14 Table of Contents We depend on independent foundries to manufacture some of our products and any failure to obtain sufficient foundry capacity could significantly delay our ability to ship our products and damage our customer relationships. We depend on independent foundries to manufacture some of our products. Because we outsource a portion of our manufacturing, we face several significant risks, including: • lack of internal manufacturing capacity for certain of our products; • limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and control, manufacturing yields and production costs; • the unavailability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies; • a lack of a guaranteed level of production capacity with our foundries; and • the inability of the independent foundries to successfully implement proprietary elements of our technology in their fabs. We have not entered into a long-term agreement with our independent foundries and we place our orders on a purchase order basis. As a result, if our independent foundries raise their prices or are not able to meet our required capacity for various reasons, including shortages or delays in shipment of semiconductor equipment or materials used by our independent foundries to manufacture our semiconductors, or if our business relationship with our independent foundries deteriorates, we may not be able to obtain the required capacity from our independent foundries. In that case, we may be required to seek alternative foundries, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or which may expose us to risks associated with qualifying new foundries. Further, these foundries are not interchangeable as we use each foundry for different manufacturing processes. Using foundries with which we have no established relationships could expose us to potentially unfavorable pricing, unsatisfactory quality or insufficient capacity allocation. Also, qualifying new foundries would be time consuming and cause us to incur additional costs. Our independent foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that our independent foundries may provide preferential treatment in terms of capacity allocation to their other customers with long-term contracts or who are larger than us. Reallocation of capacity by our independent foundries to their other customers could impair our ability to secure the supply of semiconductors that we need, which could significantly delay our ability to ship our products, causing a loss of revenue and damage to our customer relationships. In addition, if we do not accurately forecast our capacity needs, the independent foundries may not have available capacity to meet our immediate needs or we may be required to pay higher costs to fulfill those needs, either of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We plan to reduce our reliance on independent foundries in 2012 as we expect our second fab will be put into operation in the second half of 2012. However, there can be no assurance that our second fab will become operational on that timeline or that we will not face additional risks with our independent foundries due to any reduction in our orders resulting from the use of our second fab. We may be unable to obtain the manufacturing equipment necessary for our business in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost and, therefore, may be unable to achieve our expansion plans or meet our customers’ orders, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends upon our ability to obtain required equipment in a timely manner and at acceptable prices. Shortages of equipment could result in an increase in equipment prices and longer delivery times. If we are unable to obtain equipment in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost, we may be unable to achieve our expansion plans or meet our customers’ orders, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The maintenance of our existing fab and our second fab as it becomes operational is subject to risks that could result in delays or cost overruns, which could require us to expend additional capital and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We regularly maintain and enhance our fab, and expect to maintain and enhance our second fab once it becomes operational, to expand our manufacturing capabilities in order to meet customer and market demands. There are, however, a number of events that could delay maintenance and enhancements of our existing fab and our second fab as it becomes operational. Such potential events include, but are not limited to: • shortages and late delivery of facility equipment; • the unavailability of equipment, whether new or previously owned, at acceptable terms and prices; • delays in installation, commissioning and qualification of our manufacturing equipment; • labor disputes; • design changes with respect to equipment layout; and • delays in securing any necessary governmental approvals. As a result, our projections relating to capacity, manufacturing technology capabilities or technology developments may significantly differ from actual capacity, manufacturing technology capabilities or technology developments. Delays in maintaining or enhancing our existing fab and our second fab as it becomes operational could result in the loss or delayed receipt of earnings, an increase in financing costs or the failure to meet profit and earnings projections, any of which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our production may be interrupted, limited or delayed if we cannot maintain sufficient sources of fresh water and electricity, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The semiconductor fabrication process requires extensive amounts of fresh water and a stable source of electricity. As our production capabilities increase and our business grows, our requirements will grow substantially. While we have not, to date, experienced any instances of lack of sufficient supplies of water or material disruptions in the electricity supply to our fab, we may not have access to sufficient supplies of water and electricity to accommodate our planned growth. Droughts, pipeline interruptions, power interruptions, electricity shortages or government intervention, particularly in the form of rationing, are factors that could restrict our access to these utilities in the areas in which our fab is located. If there is an insufficient supply of fresh water or electricity to satisfy our requirements, we may need to limit or delay our production, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, a power outage, even of very limited duration, could result in a loss of wafers in production and a deterioration in yield. We are subject to the risk of damage due to fires or explosions because some of the materials we use in our manufacturing processes are highly flammable. Such damage could significantly reduce our manufacturing capacity, thereby adversely affecting our business and results of operations. We use highly flammable materials such as silane and hydrogen in our manufacturing processes and are therefore subject to the risk of loss and damages arising from explosions and fires. While we have not experienced any explosions or fires to date, the risk of explosion and fire associated with these materials cannot be eliminated. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses due to an explosion or fire and would not cover any lost business we would experience. In addition, if there is a fire or explosion, our employees may be injured. If our fab were to be damaged or cease operations as a result of an explosion or fire, it would significantly reduce our manufacturing capacity and also harm our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our operations may be delayed or interrupted and our business could be adversely affected as a result of our efforts to comply with environmental regulations. We are subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the use, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in our production processes. Any failure, or any claim that we have failed, to comply with these regulations could cause delays in our production and capacity expansion and affect our public image, either of which could harm our business. In addition, any failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to substantial fines or other liabilities or require us to suspend or adversely modify our operations. Compliance with environmental regulations could require us to acquire expensive pollution control equipment or to incur other substantial expenses, or otherwise harm our results of operations. We could also be required to incur costs associated with the investigation and remediation of contamination at currently operated or used sites, future sites in which we conduct operations, or at sites at which our hazardous waste was disposed. Any failure by us to control the use, disposal, removal or storage of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, or assist in the cleanup of, hazardous or toxic substances, could subject us to significant liabilities. The imposition of these liabilities could significantly harm our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Uncertainties with respect to China’s economic, political and social condition, as well as government policies, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. A significant portion of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various economic and political policies and laws and regulations to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Any adverse changes to these policies of the PRC government or the laws and regulations of the PRC, or other factors detrimental to China’s economic development, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. For example, from time to time, the PRC government implements monetary, credit and other policies or otherwise makes efforts to slow the pace of growth of the PRC economy, which could result in decreased capital expenditures by our end customers in China and reduce their demand for our products. In particular, our growth strategy is based in part upon the assumption that demand in China for electronics products that use semiconductors will continue to grow. Therefore, any slowdown in the growth of consumer demand in China for products that use semiconductors, such as computers, mobile phones or other consumer electronics, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our business model assumes that an increasing number of global electronics manufacturers and systems companies will establish operations in China and require the use of products developed and manufactured in China. Any decline in the rate of migration to China of companies that require semiconductors as components for their products could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Our business is subject to government regulation and benefits from certain government incentives, and changes in these regulations or incentives could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The PRC government has broad discretion and authority to regulate the technology industry in China. China’s government has also implemented policies from time to time to regulate economic expansion in China. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industrial development. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. New regulations or the readjustment of previously implemented regulations could require us to change our business model, increase our costs or limit our ability to sell products and conduct activities in China, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, the PRC government and provincial and municipal governments and other similar authorities have provided and may from time to time in the future provide various incentives to domestic companies in the semiconductor industry, including our company, in order to encourage development of the industry. Such incentives include tax rebates, reduced tax rates, favorable lending policies and other measures. Any of these incentives could be reduced or eliminated by governmental authorities at any time in the future. For example, BCD (Shanghai) ME is granted tax rebates and other incentives under its investment agreement with ZiZhu Development. Any such reduction or elimination of incentives currently provided to us could adversely affect our business and results of operations. See “Item 4.B Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations and Policies that Encourage the Development of Semiconductor Companies.” The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to us in the PRC or the imposition of any additional PRC taxes on us could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC adopted a new enterprise income tax law, or the Enterprise Income Tax Law, which provides a uniform enterprise income tax rate for PRC enterprises of 25% and provides a five-year transition period starting January 1, 2008 for those enterprises which were established before the promulgation date of the Enterprise Income Tax Law and which were entitled to a lower tax rate or tax holiday under the then effective tax laws or regulations. According to the Enterprise Income Tax Law and approval by local tax authorities, Shanghai SIM-BCD Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. Ltd., or SIM-BCD, was entitled to a full exemption from foreign-invested enterprise, or FIE, income tax for two years starting on January 1, 2008, and a 50% reduction in FIE income tax for the three years thereafter. According to the Enterprise Income Tax Law, a high and new technology enterprise, or HNTE, “specially supported” by the PRC government, would be eligible to a lower income tax rate of 15%. See “Item 4.B Business Overview—Regulation—Enterprise Income Tax Regulation.” SIM-BCD was recognized as an HNTE by Shanghai Science and Technology Commission, Shanghai Finance Bureau, Shanghai State and Local Tax Bureau on November 25, 2008 and subsequently renewed on October 20, 2011, and is entitled to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15%. HNTE status is effective for three years after the date of issuance of the HNTE Certificate, and SIM-BCD must submit an application for re-examination three months prior to the expiration of such period otherwise its qualification as an HNTE will automatically expire at the end of this period. However, we cannot assure you that SIM-BCD will continue to qualify as an HNTE or that our other PRC subsidiaries will be qualified as such and be “specially supported” by the PRC government in the future. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatments currently available to our wholly-owned subsidiaries will cause our effective tax rate to increase, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Preferential treatment as an HNTE business will only affect the rate of enterprise income tax to which our subsidiaries are subject. It will not affect the determination of whether we are treated as a PRC resident enterprise. See “Item 3.D Key Information—Risk Factors—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, which may subject us to PRC income tax on our worldwide income and PRC income tax withholding for any dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders.” Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently-enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 17 Table of Contents The PRC government has enacted some laws and regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, the PRC government’s experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is unpredictable. The resolution of these matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the PRC government, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Any rights we may have to specific performance or to seek an injunction under PRC law are severely limited, and without a means of recourse by virtue of the PRC legal system, we may be unable to prevent these situations from occurring. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our subsidiaries in China are subject to restrictions on dividend payments, making other payments to us or any other affiliated company and borrowing or allocating tax losses among our subsidiaries. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries in China to pay dividends only out of their accumulated distributable profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations and their articles of association subject to certain statutory requirements. In addition, our subsidiaries in China are required to set aside at least 10% of their after-tax profit each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds until such reserves have reached at least 50% of their respective registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash loans, advances or dividends. In addition, current PRC regulations prohibit inter-company borrowings or allocation of tax losses among subsidiaries in China. Further, if one or more of our subsidiaries in China incur debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us, which would limit our access to capital from our operating subsidiaries. Limitations on our ability to transfer funds to our PRC subsidiaries could adversely affect our ability to expand our operations, make investments that could benefit our business and otherwise fund and conduct our business. The transfer of funds from us to our PRC subsidiaries, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration with or approval by the PRC governmental authorities, including relevant branches of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, or the relevant examination and approval authority. Our subsidiaries may also experience difficulties in converting our capital contributions made in foreign currencies into RMB due to changes in the PRC’s foreign exchange control policies. Therefore, it may be difficult to change capital expenditure plans once the relevant funds have been remitted from us to our PRC subsidiaries. These limitations and the difficulties our PRC subsidiaries may experience on the free flow of funds between us and our PRC subsidiaries could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market situations in a timely manner. PRC regulatory authorities may impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. Existing restrictions and any additional restrictions imposed in the future could have an adverse effect on our ability to utilize the cash we generate from our operations, which could slow our growth. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC shareholders or our PRC subsidiaries to liability or penalties, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005 requiring PRC residents to register with their local branch of SAFE before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company.” We may be deemed to be an offshore special purpose company. PRC residents who are beneficial owners of offshore special purpose companies that have completed round trip investments and did not make foreign exchange registrations for overseas investments before November 1, 2005 were retroactively required to register with the local branch of SAFE before March 31, 2006. PRC residents who are beneficial owners of offshore special purpose companies are also required to update their registration with the local branch of SAFE regarding any material changes with respect to their offshore company within 30 days of the occurrence of such change, including round-trip investments, changes in share capital, transfers or swaps of shares, mergers, divisions, long-term equity or debt investments or creation of any security interest. See “Item 4.B Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Foreign Exchange Registration of Offshore Investment by PRC Residents.” We have notified our shareholders who are PRC residents (as determined under the SAFE regulations) to register with the local SAFE branch as required under the SAFE regulations. However, we cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents have complied with or will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with the required PRC registration procedures may subject our PRC subsidiaries to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to, or obtain foreign-exchange denominated loans from, us. 18 Table of Contents As it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject us or our PRC employees who are granted or exercise stock options to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. In December 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, which set forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by PRC individuals under current account transactions and capital account transactions. In January 2007, SAFE promulgated the Implementing Rules of Measures for the Administration of Individual Foreign Exchange, or the Implementation Rules. In March 2007, SAFE issued the Processing Guidance on Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in an Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of an Overseas-Listed Company, or the Share Option Rule. In February 2012, SAFE promulgated the Circular on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of an Overseas-Listed Company, or Circular 7, to replace the Share Option Rule. Under these rules, PRC citizens and foreign nationals who have lived in China for more than a year, who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our PRC employees who have been granted stock options became subject to the Implementation Rules when our company became a non-PRC publicly-listed company. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions and may become subject to more stringent review and approval processes with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as receiving dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries or obtaining foreign currency loans, all of which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. See “Item 4.B Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Employee Share Options.” Several of our PRC employees have exercised their stock options prior to 2005, which is prior to our becoming an overseas publicly-listed company. Since there is not yet a clear regulation on how and whether PRC employees can exercise their stock options granted by overseas private companies, it is unclear whether such exercises are permissible by PRC laws and it is uncertain how SAFE or other government authorities will interpret or administrate such regulations. We cannot predict how such exercises will affect our business or operations, but we may be subject to more stringent review and approval processes with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may affect our results of operations and financial condition. PRC regulations establish more complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by foreign investors which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, or SASAC, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the CSRC, and SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The M&A Rule established new procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. On February 3, 2011, the General Office of the State Council promulgated the Notice on Launching the Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Security Review Notice, which became effective on March 6, 2011. The M&A Security Review Notice provides for certain circumstances under which foreign investors’ acquisition of domestic enterprises shall be subject to the security review of the PRC governments. The security review assesses such acquisition’s impact on national security, stable operation of national economy, basic living of the people, and research and development capacity for key technologies related to the national security. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rule and the M&A Security Review Notice to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Limits placed on exports into China by other countries could substantially harm our business and results of operations. The growth of our business will depend on the ability of our suppliers to export, and our ability to import, equipment, materials, spare parts, process know-how and other technologies and hardware into China. Any restrictions placed on the import and export of these products and technologies could adversely impact our growth and substantially harm our business. In particular, the United States requires our suppliers and us to obtain licenses to export certain products, equipment, materials, spare parts and technologies from the United States. If we or our suppliers are unable to obtain export licenses in a timely manner, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Licenses may be required for certain shipments to China as a result of the technical specifications of the item exported, the end use of the item exported, or the end user of the item exported. These licensing requirements are the result of both multilateral restrictions, such as the Wassenaar Arrangement on Export Controls for Conventional Arms and Dual Use Goods and Technologies, which currently has 40 participating countries, as well as unilateral sanctions imposed by the United States. To the extent that technology, equipment, materials or spare parts used in our manufacturing processes are or become subject to the restrictions of the arrangement, our ability to procure these products and technology could be impaired, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. There could also be a change in the export license regulatory regime in the countries from which we purchase our equipment, materials and spare parts that could delay our ability to obtain export licenses for the equipment, materials, spare parts and technology we require to conduct our business. If the PRC government determines that we failed to obtain requisite PRC governmental approvals for, or register with the PRC government, our current and past import and export of technologies, we could be subject to sanctions. China imposes controls on technology import and export. The term “technology import and export” is broadly defined to include the transfer or license of patents, software and know-how, and the provision of services in relation to technology. Depending on the nature of the relevant technology, the import and export of technology require either approval by, or registration with, the relevant PRC governmental authorities. If any of our PRC subsidiaries are found to be, or has been, in violation of PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including, but not limited to, issuing a warning, levying fines, restricting us from remitting royalties or any other fees, if any, relating to these technologies outside of China, confiscating our earnings generated from the import or export of such technology or even restricting our future export and import of any technology. Even if our PRC subsidiaries successfully obtain such approval or complete such registration, if the PRC government determines that our past import and export of technology were inconsistent with, or insufficient for, the proper operation of our business, we could be subject to similar sanctions. Any of these or similar sanctions could cause significant disruption to our business operations or render us unable to conduct a substantial portion of our business operations and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are obligated to withhold and pay PRC individual income tax on behalf of our employees who have exercised stock options. Prior to our IPO, we did not withhold or pay such individual income tax in accordance with applicable PRC regulations with regard to certain such employees and, as a result, we may be required to pay the related tax deficiencies and may be subject to penalties under PRC laws. The State Administration of Taxation has issued several circulars concerning employee stock options. Under these circulars, our employees working in China (which could include both PRC employees and expatriate employees subject to PRC individual income tax) who exercise stock options will be subject to PRC individual income tax. Our PRC subsidiaries have the obligation to file documents related to employee stock options with relevant tax authorities and withhold and pay individual income taxes for those employees who exercise their stock options. However, the relevant tax authority has orally advised us that due to the difficulty in determining the fair market value of our shares as a private company, we need not withhold and pay the individual income tax for the exercises until after we become a publicly traded company. Thus we did not withhold or pay the individual income tax for those option exercises. However, we cannot assure you that the tax authority will not act otherwise and request us to withhold and pay the individual income tax immediately and impose sanctions on us. Relations between Taiwan and China could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and therefore the market value and liquidity of your investment. China does not recognize the sovereignty of Taiwan and the relations between China and Taiwan have often been strained. A number of our key customers and our primary foundry service provider are located in Taiwan. Therefore, factors affecting military, political or economic conditions in Taiwan could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, which may subject us to PRC income tax on our worldwide income and PRC income tax withholding for any dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders. 20 Table of Contents Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, all domestic and foreign investment companies will be subject to a uniform enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% and dividends from PRC enterprises to their foreign shareholders will be subject to a withholding tax at a rate of 10%, if the foreign investors are considered as non-resident enterprises without any establishment or place within China or if the dividends payable have no connection with the establishment or place of the foreign investors within China, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. However, under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, enterprises established under the laws of non-PRC jurisdictions, but whose “de facto management body” is located in the PRC are treated as resident enterprises for PRC tax purposes. Under the Implementation Rules of Enterprise Income Tax Law, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the business, personnel, accounts and properties of an enterprise. In April 2009, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated a circular to clarify the definition of “de facto management body” for enterprises incorporated overseas with controlling shareholders being PRC enterprises. However, since the relevant rules are relatively new and there are few precedents, it remains unclear how the tax authorities will treat for PRC tax purposes a company like us who is an overseas enterprise ultimately controlled by overseas enterprises or individuals. We are currently not treated as a PRC resident enterprise and as a result, we have not withheld PRC income taxes from our foreign investors. Nevertheless, a significant portion of our operations are currently based in the PRC and are likely to remain based in the PRC; therefore, we cannot assure you that we will not be considered a PRC resident enterprise in the future. If we are treated as a resident enterprise, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, but the dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to us are exempt income. If we were considered a PRC resident enterprise, it is also possible that the Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules would cause dividends paid by us to our non-PRC shareholders to be subject to a withholding tax, and would cause foreign shareholders and ADS holders to become subject to a 10% income tax on any gains they realize from the transfer of their shares or ADSs, if such income is regarded as income from sources within the PRC. The enforcement of the Labor Contract Law and other labor-related regulations in the PRC may adversely affect our business and our results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The Labor Contract Law established new restrictions and increased costs for employers to dismiss employees, including specific provisions related to fixed-term employment contracts, temporary employment, probation, consultation with the labor union and employee assembly, employment without a contract, dismissal of employees, compensation upon termination and overtime work, and collective bargaining. According to the Labor Contract Law, an employer is obliged to sign a labor contract with an unlimited term with an employee if the employer continues to hire the employee after the expiration of two consecutive fixed-term labor contracts subject to certain conditions or after the employee has worked for the employer for ten consecutive years. The employer also has to pay compensation to an employee if the employer terminates an unlimited-term labor contract. Such compensation is also required when the employer refuses to renew a labor contract that has expired, unless it is the employee who refuses to extend the expired contract. In addition, under the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which became effective on January 1, 2008 and its Implementation Rules on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which became effective on September 18, 2008, employees who have served more than one year for an employer are entitled to a paid vacation ranging from 5 to 15 days, depending on their length of service. Employers who fail to allow for such vacation time must compensate their employees three times their regular salaries for each vacation day disallowed, unless such employees waive their right to such vacation days in writing. See “Item 4.B Business Overview—Regulations—Regulations on Labor Protection.” We have limited business insurance coverage in China, which could harm our business. Our PRC subsidiaries currently have insurance policies covering losses and damages to their properties, as well as limited losses in gross profit due to such property losses or damages. Our PRC subsidiaries also have a limited amount of insurance on liabilities to the public arising from their operations. The amount we recover from these insurance policies, however, may be limited, and any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources against which we will not be protected. Risks Related to Ownership of Our ADSs, Our Trading Market Substantial future sales or the perception of sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Future sales by us or our existing shareholders or the possibility of future sales of substantial amounts of our ADSs, including ADSs issued upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants, in the public markets in the United States, could negatively impact the market price of our ADSs and our ability to raise equity capital in the future. Shares outstanding that were not sold in our IPO are eligible for conversion into ADSs and available for sale. In addition, certain holders of our ordinary shares have rights, under certain conditions, to cause us to register under the Securities Act the sale of certain of our ordinary shares following conversion into ADSs. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act or sales of shares under an exemption to the Securities Act rules will result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restrictions under the Securities Act. Sale of these shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. 21 Table of Contents The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors including, among others, the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • announcements regarding intellectual property litigation involving us or our competitors; • conditions in the semiconductor industry; • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of key personnel; • fluctuation of exchange rates between the RMB and the U.S. dollar; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares; and • general economic or political conditions as well as regulatory developments in China. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash, anticipated cash flow from operations and the net proceeds from our IPO will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs, including capital expenditures for the building of our second fab and otherwise, for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The laws of the Cayman Islands may not provide our shareholders with benefits comparable to those provided to shareholders of corporations incorporated in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, by the Companies Law (2011 Revision) of the Cayman Islands, and by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law in the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands and from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws relative to the United States. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. In addition, shareholders of Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. The Cayman Island courts are also unlikely to impose liability against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liabilities provisions of U.S. securities laws. Provisions of our articles of association may impede a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of the ADSs. Our memorandum and articles of association permit our board of directors to issue preference shares from time to time, with such rights and preferences as they consider appropriate. Our board of directors could authorize the issuance of preference shares with terms and conditions and under circumstances that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction. However, any such issuance of shares would have to be for a proper purpose. 22 Table of Contents It may be difficult for you to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against our company, which may limit the remedies otherwise available to our shareholders. Substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. Almost all of our current operations are conducted in China. Several of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and a substantial portion of their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these directors and officers in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. Moreover, the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. There is doubt as to whether the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands will, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, impose liabilities predicated upon the civil liability provisions of securities laws of the United States or any state of the United States, on the grounds that such provisions are penal in nature. There is uncertainty as to whether the courts of China would entertain original actions brought in China against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against us or our officers, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and as such we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States domestic public companies. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States domestic public companies. For example: • we are not required to provide as many Exchange Act reports, or as frequently, as a domestic public company; • we are not required to provide the same level of disclosure on certain issues, such as executive compensation; • for interim reporting, we are permitted to comply solely with our home country requirements, which are less rigorous than the rules that apply to domestic public companies; • we are not required to comply with the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; and • we are not required to comply with Section 16 of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction. We intend to file annual reports on Form 20-F and reports on Form 6-K, including reports containing our quarterly results. As a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act, we do not intend to file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, periodic reports on Form 8-K or proxy statements pursuant to Schedule 14A of the Exchange Act. As a result, our shareholders may not have access to certain information they may deem important. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and we will rely on exemptions from certain NASDAQ corporate governance rules applicable to United States domestic public companies, including the requirements regarding the determination of compensation for our executive officers and the nomination of our directors. This may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. The NASDAQ corporate governance rules require listed companies to have, among other things, the compensation of a company’s executive officers determined and director nominations made by either committees consisting solely of “independent directors,” as such term is used in the NASDAQ corporate governance rules, or by a majority of a company’s independent directors. However, as a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and we intend to follow home country corporate governance practices for the determination of executive officer compensation and director nominations instead of the NASDAQ corporate governance rules. Our compensation and our nominating and corporate governance committees of our board of directors are currently not comprised entirely of independent directors. The corporate governance practice in our home country, the Cayman Islands, however, does not require that all members of our compensation committee or our nominating and corporate governance committee be independent directors. 23 Table of Contents Although we may decide to have the compensation of our executive officers determined by and our directors nominated by a majority of our independent directors in compliance with the NASDAQ corporate governance rules in the future, we currently intend to rely upon the relevant home country exemption in lieu of the NASDAQ corporate governance rules and have our compensation committee determine the compensation of our executive officers and our nominating and corporate governance committee nominate our directors. As a result, the level of independent oversight over management of our company may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. We currently comply with all other NASDAQ corporate governance rules applicable to United States domestic issuers, including having a majority of independent directors serving on our board of directors and an audit committee consisting solely of independent directors. Being a public company has increased our administrative costs, which could adversely affect our business. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, which could be a few million dollars or more. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC, require certain corporate governance practices for public companies. In addition to these rules, the NASDAQ Global Select Market has certain corporate governance requirements for companies that are listed on NASDAQ. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, and to make some activities more time consuming and costly. As a public company, we have several board committees, have adopted internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures and have borne and will have to bear all of the internal and external costs of preparing and distributing periodic public reports. We also expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. Additionally, while we currently qualify as a foreign private issuer, we may cease to qualify as a foreign private issuer in the future. If we do not qualify as a foreign private issuer, we will be required to comply fully with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and we will incur significant additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we would not incur as a foreign private issuer. Insiders have substantial control over us, which could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. Our executive officers and directors, and their respective affiliates and our major shareholders, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 41.2% of our outstanding ordinary shares as of February 29, 2012. In addition, none is contractually prevented from acquiring additional ordinary shares. As a result, these shareholders will be able to exert significant control over all matters requiring shareholder approval. These matters include the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us. This concentration of ownership could also adversely affect the market price of our ADSs or lessen any premium over market price that an acquirer might otherwise pay. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our ADSs, our share price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our ADSs will depend in part on the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade us, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequence to U.S. holders. We do not believe that we were a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2011, and based on the current price of our ADSs and the composition of our income and assets, we do not expect to be a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2012 or for the immediate future years. However, a separate determination must be made each year as to whether we are a PFIC (after the close of each taxable year) and we cannot assure you that we were not a PFIC for our taxable year ended December 31, 2011 or that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2012 or any future taxable year. A non-United States corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) or least 50% of its assets (generally based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. PFIC status depends on the composition of our assets and income and the value of our assets (including, among others, a pro rata portion of the income and assets of each subsidiary in which we own, directly or indirectly, at least 25% (by value) of the equity interests) from time to time. Because we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash, which is generally treated as passive assets for this purpose, and, because the calculation of the value of our assets may be based in part on the value of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which is likely to fluctuate (and may fluctuate considerably given that market prices of technology companies historically have been especially volatile), we may be a PFIC for any taxable year. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a United States holder held an ADS or an ordinary share, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to the United States holder. 24 Table of Contents You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this Annual Report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. Upon our written request, the depositary will mail to you a shareholder meeting notice which contains, among other things, a statement as to the manner in which your voting instructions may be given, and may include an express indication that such instructions may be given or deemed given to the depositary to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us if no instructions are received by the depositary from you on or before the response date established by the depositary. However, no voting instruction shall be deemed given and no such discretionary proxy shall be given with respect to any matter as to which we inform the depositary that we do not wish such proxy given, substantial opposition exists, or such matter materially and adversely affects the rights of shareholders. If you do not instruct the depositary to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs, the depositary will not exercise any related voting rights and the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs will not be voted. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. We may list our ordinary shares on a foreign stock exchange, which may increase the liquidity for our ordinary shares and could increase the volatility of the market price for our ADSs. We may list our ordinary shares on a foreign stock exchange, which we currently do not have plans to do. Our outstanding ordinary shares may become more liquid after we list our ordinary shares on a foreign exchange. After that listing becomes effective, our existing shareholders may decide to sell their ordinary shares on the foreign exchange for tax or other reasons. Any sales of our ordinary shares on a foreign exchange could increase the volatility of the market price for our ADSs. 