ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors, among others, could cause USA Mobility’s actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. The rate of revenue erosion may not improve, or may deteriorate. USA Mobility and the paging industry continues to face intense competition for subscribers due to technological competition from the mobile phone and personal digital assistant service providers as they continue to lower device prices while adding functionality. A key factor in the Company’s ability to be profitable and produce net cash flow from operations is realizing improvement in the rate of revenue erosion from historical levels. USA Mobility is dependent on net cash provided by operations as its principal source of liquidity. If no improvement is realized, or if revenue erosion accelerates, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to be profitable and produce positive cash flow. 9 Table of Contents USA Mobility may fail to achieve the cost savings necessary to maintain positive cash flow from operations. USA Mobility expects its revenue to continue to decline substantially in the future, therefore maintaining positive cash flow is dependent on substantially reducing operating costs. To achieve cost reductions of the magnitude necessary requires the Company to continually rationalize its own internal costs, as well as continually negotiate lower costs from its outside vendors. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in reducing its costs to the level necessary to maintain positive net cash flow. If the Company is not successful at continuing to reduce operating costs it would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to be profitable and product positive cash flow. If the Company is unable to retain key management personnel, it might not be able to find suitable replacements on a timely basis or at all and the Company’s business could be disrupted. USA Mobility’s success will depend, to a significant extent, upon the continued service of a relatively small group of key executive and management personnel. USA Mobility has an employment agreement with its president and chief executive officer. The board of directors has implemented a long-term incentive plan for senior management utilizing the equity incentive program approved by the Company’s shareholders in connection with the merger. USA Mobility has issued restricted stock to its key executives that vests on January 1, 2007 and January 1, 2008. The loss or unavailability of one or more of the Company’s executive officers or the inability to attract or retain key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future operating results, financial position and cash flows. USA Mobility may be unable to find vendors willing to supply it with paging equipment based on future demands. The Company purchases paging equipment from third party vendors. This equipment is sold or leased to customers in order to provide wireless messaging services. The reduction in industry demand for paging equipment has caused various suppliers to cease manufacturing this equipment. USA Mobility believes that its current multiple vendor relationships, its current on-hand inventories of paging equipment and its repair and maintenance programs will ensure an adequate supply of paging equipment for the foreseeable future; however, the Company is unable to predict if the existing third party vendors will continue to supply paging equipment. A lack of paging equipment could impact the Company’s ability to provide certain wireless messaging services and could materially adversely affect its cash flows, results of operations, and ultimately, the value of USA Mobility’s common stock. Future changes in ownership of the Company’s stock could prevent USA Mobility from using its tax assets to offset future taxable income, which would materially reduce the Company’s expected after-tax net income and cash flows from operations. Actions available to the Company to preserve its consolidated tax assets could result in less liquidity for its common stock and/or depress the market value of its stock. If USA Mobility were to undergo an “ownership change”, as that term is defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “IRC”), the Company’s use of tax assets would be significantly restricted, which would reduce the Company’s after-tax net income and cash flow. This in turn could reduce the Company’s ability to fund its operations. Generally, an ownership change will occur if a cumulative shift in ownership of more than 50% of USA Mobility’s common stock occurs during a rolling three-year period. The cumulative shift in ownership is a measurement of the shift in ownership of the Company’s stock held by stockholders that own 5% or more of such stock. In general terms, it will equal the aggregate of any increases in the percentage of stock owned by each stockholder that owns 5% or more of USA Mobility stock at any time during the testing period over the lowest percentage of stock owned by each such shareholder during the testing period. The testing period generally is the prior three years, but begins no earlier than May 30, 2002, the day after Arch emerged from bankruptcy. As of December 31, 2005, the Company has undergone a combined cumulative change in ownership of approximately 36.2%. The determination of the Company’s percentage ownership change is dependent on provisions of the tax law that are subject to varying interpretations and on facts that are not precisely determinable 10 Table of Contents by USA Mobility at this time. Therefore, the Company’s cumulative shift in ownership may be more or less than approximately 36.2% and, in any event, may increase by reason of subsequent transactions in the Company’s stock by stockholders who own 5% or more of such stock, and certain other transactions affecting the direct or indirect ownership of stock. There are transfer restrictions available to the Company in its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation that permit it to generally restrict transfers by or to any 5% shareholder of USA Mobility common stock or any transfer that would cause a person or group of persons to become a 5% shareholder of USA Mobility common stock. The Company intends to enforce these restrictions in order to preserve its consolidated tax assets, and such enforcement may result in less liquidity for the Company’s common stock and/or depress the market price for USA Mobility shares. Please refer to Item 5, Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, for a description of the transfer restrictions that are available to the Company in its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation which permit USA Mobility to restrict transfers by or to any 5% shareholder of its common stock or any transfer that would cause a person or group of persons to become a 5% shareholder of its common stock. USA Mobility intends to enforce these restrictions in order to preserve its tax assets, and such enforcement may result in less liquidity for the Company’s common stock and/or depress the market price for USA Mobility shares. USA Mobility has material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and can provide no assurance that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in the financial statements. Management has identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that affected USA Mobility’s financial statements for the periods ended December 31, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005 and the first three quarters of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005. See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.” The material weaknesses in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the periods related to ineffective controls over the accuracy and valuation of income taxes and related deferred income tax balances; over the completeness and accuracy of transactional taxes, over the completeness and accuracy of depreciation expense and accumulated depreciation, and over the completeness, accuracy and valuation of asset retirement costs, asset retirement obligation liabilities and the related depreciation, amortization and accretion expense. We can provide no assurance that additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties that may be encountered in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses, cause the Company to fail to meet its periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in the Company’s financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor reports regarding the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated under Section 404. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS The Company had no unresolved staff comments as of May 19, 2006. 