1A. Risk FactorsYou should carefully consider the risks described below and all of the other information included in this Form 10-K when deciding whether to invest in our common stock or otherwise evaluating our business. If any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition, or operating results could suffer. In this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.Our investment advisory operations may subject us to liability for any losses that result from a breach of our fiduciary duties.Three of our subsidiaries, Ibbotson Associates, Inc., Morningstar Associates, LLC, and Morningstar Investment Services, Inc. are registered as investment advisors with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (Advisers Act). As registered investment advisors, these companies are subject to the requirements and regulations of the Advisers Act. Such requirements relate to, among other things, record-keeping, reporting, and standards of care, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. As registered investment advisors, all three subsidiaries are subject to on-site examination by the SEC.In addition, because these three subsidiaries provide investment advisory services to retirement plans and their participants, they may be acting as fiduciaries under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). As fiduciaries under ERISA, they have obligations to act in the best interest of their clients. They also have duties of loyalty and prudence, as well as duties to diversify investments and to follow plan documents to comply with the applicable portions of ERISA.Our subsidiaries outside the United States that have investment advisory operations are subject to similar requirements.We may face liabilities for actual or claimed breaches of our fiduciary duties, particularly in areas where we provide retirement advice and managed retirement accounts. We may not be able to prevent clients from taking legal action against us for an actual or claimed breach of a fiduciary duty. Because we provided investment advisory and management services on more than $180.8 billion in assets as of December 31, 2011, we could face substantial liabilities if we breach our fiduciary duties.In addition, we may face other legal liabilities based on the quality and outcome of our investment advisory recommendations, even in the absence of an actual or claimed breach of fiduciary duty.Downturns in the financial sector, global financial markets, and global economy may adversely impact our business.We believe ongoing economic weakness continues to cause uncertainty and pressure on consumer discretionary spending. The financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, as well as more recent financial and economic uncertainty, has led to spending cutbacks among asset management firms and other financial services companies, which make up a large percentage of our client base. Some institutional clients also implemented additional review processes for new contracts or began to provide certain services, particularly investment advisory services, in-house rather than hiring external service providers. Some institutional clients have also reduced the scope of their operations. For example, several large insurers withdrew from the variable annuity market during 2011, while others curtailed their new sales efforts. This has had a negative effect on the services we provide to institutional clients that offer variable annuities. In 2010 and 2011, rising government debt levels around the world as well as downgrades in sovereign debt issues for some European countries led to market fears about a potential crisis in global sovereign debt. Some European countries have been unable to successfully refinance their debts, leading European finance officials to take measures during 2010 and 2011 to stabilize financial conditions across Europe. 28Table of ContentsAlthough sovereign debt problems have been most severe in countries such as Greece, Ireland, and Portugal, concerns have also grown about the stability of Europe as a whole and the future of the euro currency. In 2011, approximately 16.3% of our consolidated revenue was from Europe, including 7.8% in Continental Europe and 8.5% in the United Kingdom. Our European operations are also subject to currency risk related to the euro, which accounted for approximately 6.1% of our consolidated revenue in 2011 and approximately 9.2% of our cash and cash equivalents balance as of December 31, 2011. We don't engage in currency hedging or have any positions in derivative instruments to hedge our currency risk. Our reported revenue could suffer if the euro declines relative to the U.S. dollar.In addition, If financial markets around the world experience negative performance and volatility, demand for our products and services may decline, and our revenue, operating income, and other financial results could suffer. Our business results may also be impacted by negative trends in Internet advertising sales. The financial markets and many businesses operating in the financial services industry are highly volatile and are affected by factors, such as U.S. and foreign economic conditions and general trends in business and finance, that are beyond our control.Changes in laws applicable to our investment advisory or credit rating operations, compliance failures, or regulatory action could adversely affect our business.Our investment advisory operations are a growing part of our overall business. Our acquisitions of Ibbotson Associates in 2006 and Intech Pty Ltd (now known as Ibbotson Associates Australia) in 2009 substantially increased our business in this area. We also expanded our investment advisory operations with our 2010 acquisitions of Old Broad Street Research Ltd. in the United Kingdom and Seeds Group in France. The securities laws and other laws that govern our activities as a registered investment advisor are complex. The activities of our investment advisory operations are primarily subject to provisions of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the Advisers Act) and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). In addition, our investment management business is conducted through a broker-dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) and is subject to the rules of FINRA. We also provide investment advisory services in other areas around the world, and our operations may be subject to additional regulations in markets outside the United States.Over the past several years, we have also made significant investments in our credit rating business. We began publishing credit ratings and associated research on corporate debt issuers in 2009. Although our corporate credit rating business is not currently regulated as a Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization (NRSRO), credit rating and research providers have been under increasing regulatory scrutiny. We cannot predict the future impact of potential future regulatory changes on our corporate credit rating business.We also expanded our credit rating business operations with our May 2010 acquisition of Realpoint (now known as Morningstar Credit Ratings, LLC), an NRSRO that specializes in structured finance. As an NRSRO, Morningstar Credit Ratings is subject to the requirements and regulations under the Exchange Act. Such requirements relate to, among other things, record-keeping, reporting, governance, and conflicts of interest. As of result of its NRSRO registration, Morningstar Credit Ratings is subject to annual examinations by the SEC.29Table of ContentsIt is difficult to predict the future effect of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our business. The laws, rules, and regulations applicable to our business may change in the future, and we may not be able to comply with any such changes. If we fail to comply with any applicable law, rule, or regulation, we could be fined, sanctioned, or barred from providing investment advisory services in the future, which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition.Our revenue from asset-based fees may be adversely affected by market declines as well as the effect of cash outflows from portfolios that we help manage.In 2011, revenue from asset-based fees made up approximately 13% of our consolidated revenue and a greater percentage of our operating income. The amount of revenue we earn from asset-based fees depends on the value of assets on which we provide advisory services, and the size of our asset base can increase or decrease along with trends in market performance. The value of assets under advisement may show substantial declines during periods of significant market volatility. The size of these portfolios can also be affected if net inflows into the portfolios on which we provide investment advisory services drop or if these portfolios experience redemptions. If the level of assets on which we provide investment advisory services goes down, we expect our fee-based revenue to show a corresponding decline.We could face liability related to our storage of personal information about our users.Customers routinely input personal investment and financial information, including portfolio holdings and credit card information, on our websites. We also handle an increasing volume of personally sensitive information through our Portfolio Management Service, Enterprise Data Management, managed retirement accounts, and other areas of our business. We could be subject to liability if we were to inappropriately disclose any user's personal information or if third parties were able to penetrate our network security or otherwise gain access to any user's name, address, portfolio holdings, or credit card information. An outage of our database and network facilities could result in reduced revenue and the loss of customers.The success of our business depends upon our ability to deliver time-sensitive, up-to-date data and information. We rely on our computer equipment, database storage facilities, and other office equipment, much of which is geographically concentrated in our Chicago headquarters or elsewhere in the Chicago area. We also have extensive information systems outside the United States. Our mission-critical databases and networks are increasingly complex and interdependent. Our operations and those of our suppliers and customers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, wars, Internet failures or disruptions, computer viruses, and other events beyond our control. Our database and network facilities may also be vulnerable to external attacks that misappropriate our data, corrupt our databases, or limit access to our information systems. We maintain off-site back-up facilities for our database and network equipment, but these facilities could be subject to the same interruptions that may affect our headquarters. We may not be able to fully recover data or information lost during a database or network facility outage. Any losses, service disruption, or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition.Our business relies heavily on electronic delivery systems and the Internet. Any failures or disruptions could result in reduced revenue and the loss of customers.Most of our products and services depend heavily on our electronic delivery systems and the Internet. Our ability to deliver information using the Internet may be impaired because of infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party Internet providers, malicious attacks, or increased government regulation. If disruptions, failures, or slowdowns of our electronic delivery systems or the Internet occur, our ability to distribute our products and services effectively and to serve our customers may be impaired.30Table of ContentsFailing to differentiate our products and continuously create innovative, proprietary research tools may harm our competitive position and business results.We attribute much of our company's success over the past 28 years to our ability to develop innovative, proprietary research tools, such as the Morningstar Rating, Morningstar Style Box, Ownership Zone, and Portfolio X-Ray. We believe these proprietary tools continue to provide us with a competitive advantage, but if tools similar to them become more broadly available through other channels, our competitive position and business results may suffer. Our competitive position and business results may also suffer if other companies are able to successfully introduce innovative, proprietary research tools that gain a wide following. Because of lower technology costs and the growth of open software platforms, we believe the barriers to entry for new competitors have declined, making it easier for new players to enter the market. Smaller companies may also be able to introduce new research tools that gain a wide following. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to successfully develop new product features and tools that differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors. Failing to respond to technological change, keep pace with new technology developments, or adopt a successful technology strategy may negatively affect our competitive position and business results.We believe the technology landscape has been changing at an accelerating rate over the past several years. Changes in technology are fundamentally impacting the ways investors access data and content. Examples include the shift from local network to computing to cloud-based systems, the proliferation of wireless mobile devices, and rapid acceleration in the use of social media platforms. While some of these changes may offer business opportunities for Morningstar, we cannot guarantee that we will successfully adapt our product offerings to meet the rapidly changing technology landscape. We believe our history of rapid technological innovation and expertise in technology have historically given us a competitive advantage. As mentioned above, though, we believe that lower technology costs and growth in open software platforms have lowered barriers to entry for new competitors. Our competitive position and business results may suffer if we fail to develop new technologies to meet client demands, or if we adopt a technology strategy that doesn't align with changes in the market. Increases in our cost structure related to hiring, benefit costs, salary levels, bonus expense, and other factors may reduce growth in operating income and prevent our operating margin from reaching higher levels. We have made significant investments in our employee base in recent years. Our total number of employees has increased to 3,465 as of December 31, 2011—more than double the total as of five years ago. We have also made adjustments to some employee salaries to remain competitive, and benefit costs have also increased. As a result, total compensation-related expense increased to 44.2% of revenue in 2011, up from 42.6% of revenue in 2010. In addition to higher compensation-related expense, we have also had additional operating expense from acquired operations, including amortization of intangible assets. At the same time, some of the higher-margin projects we previously benefited from have not recurred. For example, the period covered by the Global Analyst Research Settlement ended in July 2009, and two of our larger consulting clients elected not to renew when their contract periods expired in 2008 and 2009. As a result, our operating margin declined to 21.9% for the year ending December 31, 2011, down from a peak of 27.6% in 2008. We cannot predict whether our operating margin will be able to reach similar levels in the future. Competition could reduce our share of the investment research market and hurt our financial performance.We operate in a highly competitive industry, with many investment research providers competing for business from individual investors, financial advisors, and institutional clients. We compete with many different types of companies that vary in size, product scope, and media focus, including large and well-established distributors of financial information, such as Bloomberg; Standard & Poor's, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies; Thomson Reuters; and Yahoo!. We compete with a variety of other companies in different areas of our business, which we discuss in greater detail in the Business Segments, Products, and Services section in Item 1-Business.31Table of ContentsMany of our competitors have larger customer bases and significantly greater resources than we do. This may allow them to respond more quickly to new technologies and changes in demand for products and services, devote greater resources to developing and promoting their services, and make more attractive offers to potential clients, subscribers, and strategic partners. Industry consolidation may also lead to more intense competition. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins, or loss of market share, any of which could hurt our business, operating results, or financial condition.The investment information industry is dominated by a few large players, and industry consolidation has increased in the past several years. If providers of data and investment analysis continue to consolidate, our competitive position may suffer.Our results could suffer if the mutual fund industry continues to experience slower growth, or if actively managed equity funds continue to attract less investor attention. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from products and services related to mutual funds. The mutual fund industry has experienced substantial growth over the past 30 years, but suffered along with the market downturn in 2008 and early 2009. Global mutual fund assets declined to about $23.1 trillion as of September 30, 2011, down from a peak of $26.1 trillion in 2007. The worldwide fund industry continued to suffer from general uncertainty and volatility in the capital markets. Preliminary figures for December indicate that long-term mutual funds suffered approximately $160 billion in outflows in 2011. Despite positive returns for stocks overall during 2011, equity-focused funds have continued to experience net cash outflows, suggesting that investors remain cautious about equity-related assets. While fixed-income funds had approximately $70 billion in net inflows during 2011, equity funds had net outflows of about $225 billion. A significant portion of our fund research has historically focused on equity-related funds. In addition, Morningstar is best known for our data and analyst research on actively managed equity funds. Over the past several years, passively managed index funds have seen strong investor interest. This trend continued in 2011, as passively managed vehicles had nearly $200 billion in net inflows, compared with $7 billion of net outflows for active products (both mutual funds and ETFs). This increased the market share of passively managed products by 2% to 25%, suggesting less demand for research on active managers. Continued downturns or volatility in the financial markets, increased investor interest in other investment vehicles, or a lack of investor confidence could reduce investor interest and investment activity in this area. A slower growth rate or downturn in mutual fund assets—or a continued lessening of investor interest in actively managed equity funds—could decrease demand for our products.Our operations outside of the United States are expanding and involve additional challenges that we may not be able to meet.Our operations outside of the United States have expanded to $184.9 million in revenue in 2011 from $157.1 million million in 2010. Several of our recent acquisitions have added to our business operations in Europe, Australia, and other areas outside the United States, and we recently established a business presence in Latin America. There are risks inherent in doing business outside the United States, including challenges in reaching new markets because of established competitors and limited brand recognition; difficulties in staffing, managing, and integrating non-U.S. operations; difficulties in coordinating and sharing information globally; differences in laws and policies from country to country; exposure to varying legal standards, including intellectual property protection laws; potential tax exposure related to transfer pricing and other issues; heightened risk of fraud and noncompliance; and currency exchange rates and exchange controls. These risks could hamper our ability to expand around the world, which may hurt our financial performance and ability to grow.As our non-U.S. revenue increases as a percentage of consolidated revenue, fluctuations in foreign currencies present a greater potential risk. We don't engage in currency hedging or have any positions in derivative instruments to hedge our currency risk. Our reported revenue could suffer if certain foreign currencies decline relative to the U.S. dollar, although the impact on operating income may be offset by an opposing currency impact on locally based operating expense. In addition, because we use the local currency of our subsidiaries as the functional currency, our financial results are affected by the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars.32Table of ContentsThe increasing concentration of data and development work carried out at our offshore facilities may have a negative impact on our business operations, products, and services.We now have approximately 900 employees working in our data and technology development center in Shenzhen, China, or about one-fourth of our total workforce. Over the past several years, we have moved a significant percentage of our data collection and development operations to this location. Because China has a restrictive government under centralized control, we cannot predict the level of political and regulatory risk that may affect our operations. The concentration of development and data work carried out at this facility also involves operational risks for our network infrastructure. Any difficulties that we face in successfully maintaining our development center in China may harm our business and have a negative impact on the products and services we provide, particularly because of our increasing reliance on this facility.We have approximately 315 employees who work at our data collection facilities in Mumbai and New Delhi, India, which may also be subject to regulatory and political risk (including potential terrorist acts). Like the Shenzhen operation, these facilities also involve operational risks for our network infrastructure.We could face liability for the information we publish, including information based on data we obtain from other parties.We may be subject to claims for securities law violations, defamation (including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information we publish, including our research and ratings on corporate credit issuers. For example, investors may take legal action against us if they rely on published information that contains an error, or a company may claim that we have made a defamatory statement about it or its employees. We could also be subject to claims based upon the content that is accessible from our website through links to other websites. We rely on a variety of outside parties as the original sources for the information we use in our published data. These sources include securities exchanges, fund companies, transfer agents, and other data providers. Accordingly, in addition to possible exposure for publishing incorrect information that results directly from our own errors, we could face liability based on inaccurate data provided to us by others.Defending claims based on the information we publish could be expensive and time-consuming and could adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition.We may be unable to generate adequate returns on our cash and investment balance if we cannot identify attractive investment opportunities.We held a total of $470.2 million in cash, cash equivalents, and investments as of December 31, 2011. Because of generally low prevailing interest rates on high-quality fixed-income securities, the rate of return we can generate with our cash and investment balance is relatively low. We have used portions of our cash and investment balance to finance acquisitions over the past several years. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to find suitable acquisition opportunities in the future. We may also fail to generate enough revenue or profits from an acquisition to earn a return on the associated purchase price.The availability of free or low-cost investment information could lead to lower demand for our products and adversely affect our financial results.Investment research and information relating to publicly traded companies and mutual funds is widely available for little or no cost from various sources, including the Internet and public libraries. Investors can also access information directly from publicly traded companies and mutual funds. The SEC website provides real-time access to SEC filings, including annual, semi-annual, and quarterly reports. Financial information and data is also widely available in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language), and many brokerage firms provide financial and investment research to their clients. The widespread availability of free or low-cost investment information may make it difficult for us to maintain or increase the prices we charge for our publications and services and could lead to a lower demand for our products. A loss of a significant number of customers would hurt our financial results.33Table of ContentsOur future success depends on our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees.We experience competition for analysts and other employees from financial institutions and financial services organizations. These organizations generally have greater resources than we do and therefore may be able to offer significantly more attractive compensation packages to potential employees. Competition for these employees is intense, and we may not be able to retain our existing employees or be able to recruit and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future.Our future success also depends on the continued service of our executive officers, including Joe Mansueto, our chairman, chief executive officer, and controlling shareholder. Joe is heavily involved in our day-to-day operations, business strategy, and overall company direction. The loss of Joe or other executive officers could hurt our business, operating results, or financial condition. We do not have employment agreements, non-compete agreements, or life insurance policies in place with any of our executive officers. They may leave us and work for our competitors or start their own competing businesses.Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our brand and ability to compete effectively.The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate to safeguard our proprietary information. Further, effective trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our services. Our continued ability to market one or more of our products under their current names could be adversely affected in those jurisdictions where another person registers, or has a pre-existing registration on one or more of them. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could harm our brand, devalue our proprietary content, and affect our ability to compete in the marketplace.From time to time, we encounter jurisdictions in which one or more third parties have a pre-existing trademark registration in certain relevant international classes that may prevent us from registering our own marks in those jurisdictions. It is possible that our continued ability to use the “Morningstar” name or logo, either on a stand-alone basis or in association with certain products or services, could be compromised in those jurisdictions because of these pre-existing registrations. Similarly, from time to time, we encounter situations in certain jurisdictions where one or more third parties are already using the Morningstar name, either as part of a registered corporate name, a registered domain name or otherwise. Our ability to effectively market certain products and/or services in those locations could be adversely affected by these pre-existing usages.Failing to maintain and protect our brand, independence, and reputation may harm our business. Our reputation and business may also be harmed by allegations made about possible conflicts of interest. We believe that independence is at the core of our business, and our reputation is our greatest corporate asset. We offer products and services to our institutional clients, which include banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, mutual fund companies, media outlets, and retirement plan providers and sponsors. Our institutional clients have generated a significant percentage of our consolidated revenue in recent years. We provide ratings, analyst research, and investment recommendations on mutual funds and other investment products offered and securities issued by our institutional clients. We also provide investment advisory and investment management services. The fact that our institutional clients pay us for certain products and services, as well as the fact that in some cases we make investment recommendations within the framework of client constraints, may create the perception that our ratings, research, and recommendations are not impartial.This perception may undermine the confidence of our customers and potential customers in our reputation as a provider of independent research. Any such loss of confidence or damage to our reputation could hurt our business.Any failure to uphold our high ethical standards and ensure that our customers have a consistently positive experience with us (either intentionally or inadvertently) could damage our reputation as an objective, honest, and credible source for investment research and information.Our reputation may also be harmed by factors outside of our control, such as news reports about our clients or adverse publicity about certain investment products.34Table of ContentsControl by a principal shareholder could adversely affect our other shareholders.As of December 31, 2011, Joe Mansueto, our chairman and chief executive officer, owned approximately 50% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, he has the ability to control substantially all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation, or sale of our assets. He also has the ability to control our management and affairs. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control; impede a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving us; discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us; or result in actions that may be opposed by other shareholders.Fluctuations in our operating results may negatively affect our stock price.We believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnify the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. As a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a larger decline in operating income. A substantial portion of our operating expense is related to personnel costs, marketing programs, office leases, and other infrastructure spending, which generally cannot be adjusted quickly. Our operating expense levels are based on our expectations for future revenue. If actual revenue falls below our expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, our operating results would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we do not provide earnings guidance or hold one-on-one meetings with institutional investors and research analysts. Because of this policy and limited analyst coverage on our stock, our stock price may be volatile. If our operating results or other operating metrics fail to meet the expectations of outside research analysts and investors, the market price of our common stock may decline.The future sale of shares of our common stock may negatively affect our stock price.If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could fall. A reduction in ownership by Joe Mansueto or any other large shareholder could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. In addition, the average daily trading volume in our stock is relatively low. The lack of trading activity in our stock may lead to greater fluctuations in our stock price. Low trading volume may also make it difficult for shareholders to make transactions in a timely fashion.Our shareholders may experience dilution in their ownership positions.In the past, we've granted options to employees as a significant part of their overall compensation package. In 2006, we began granting restricted stock units to our employees and non-employee directors. As of December 31, 2011, our employees and non-employee directors held options to acquire 1,217,411 shares of common stock, 1,125,210 of which were exercisable at a weighted average price of approximately $18.84 per share. As of December 31, 2011, there were 761,119 restricted stock units outstanding, which have an average remaining vesting period of 32 months. Generally speaking, the company issues a share of stock when a restricted stock unit vests. To the extent that option holders exercise outstanding options to purchase common stock and shares are issued when restricted stock units vest, there will be further dilution. Future grants of stock options or restricted stock units may also result in dilution. We may raise additional funds through future sales of our common stock. Any such financing would result in additional dilution to our shareholders.Stock option exercises, share repurchases, and other factors may create volatility in our cash flows.Part of our cash provided by financing activities consists of proceeds from stock option exercises and excess tax benefits related to stock option exercises and vesting of restricted stock units. Excess tax benefits occur at the time a stock option is exercised if the intrinsic value of the option (the difference between the exercise price of the option and the fair value of our stock on the date of exercise) exceeds the fair value of the option at the time of grant. Similarly, excess tax benefits are generated upon vesting of restricted stock units when the market value of our common stock at vesting is greater than the grant price of the restricted stock units. These excess tax benefits reduce the cash we pay for income taxes in the year they are recognized. It is not possible to predict the timing of stock option exercises or the intrinsic value that will be realized. Because of this uncertainty, there may be additional volatility in our cash flows from financing activities.35Table of ContentsIn addition, our board of directors has authorized a share repurchase program allowing for the repurchase of up to $300 million of our outstanding common stock. We may repurchase shares from time to time at prevailing market prices on the open market or in private transactions in amounts that management deems appropriate. Changes in the amount of repurchase activity from period to period may also cause volatility in our cash flows.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsWe do not have any unresolved comments from the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act.