D. RISK FACTORS Our assets are primarily engaged in transporting crude oil and oil products, drybulk and containerized cargos, and in offshore drilling and related activities. The following summarizes the risks that may materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Unless otherwise indicated in this annual report on Form 20-F, all information concerning our business and our assets is as of April 17, 2012. 2 Risks Relating to Our Industry The seaborne transportation industry is cyclical and volatile, and this may lead to reductions in our charter rates, vessel values and results of operations. The international seaborne transportation industry is both cyclical and volatile in terms of charter rates and profitability. The degree of charter rate volatility for vessels has varied widely. Fluctuations in charter rates result from changes in the supply and demand for vessel capacity and changes in the supply and demand for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products internationally carried at sea. If we enter into a charter when charterhire rates are low, our revenues and earnings will be adversely affected. In addition, a decline in charterhire rates is likely to cause the value of our vessels to decline. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew our existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably, meet our obligations or pay dividends to our shareholders. The factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: · supply and demand for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; · changes in the exploration for and production of energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; · the location of regional and global production and manufacturing facilities; · the location of consuming regions for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; · the globalization of production and manufacturing; · global and regional economic and political conditions, including armed conflicts, terrorist activities, embargoes and strikes; · developments in international trade; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including the distance cargo is transported by sea; · environmental and other regulatory developments; · currency exchange rates; and · weather and natural disasters. Factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · the price of steel and vessel equipment; · changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of vessels; · vessel casualties; · the number of vessels that are out of service; and · port or canal congestion. Demand for our vessels and charter rates are dependent upon, among other things, seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes to the capacity of the world fleet. We believe the capacity of the world fleet is likely to increase, and there can be no assurance that global economic growth will be at a rate sufficient to utilize this new capacity. Continued adverse economic, political or social conditions or other developments could further negatively impact charter rates, and therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. 3 Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States, Europe and in other parts of the world could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. In recent years the United States, Europe and other parts of the world have experienced, and are continuing to experience, weakened economic conditions. For example, the credit markets in these areas have experienced significant contraction, de-leveraging and reduced liquidity, and the U.S. federal government and state governments, the European Union, and other foreign governments have implemented and are considering a broad variety of governmental actions and/or new regulations for the financial markets. Securities markets, futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges may take extraordinary actions, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. The uncertainty surrounding the future of the credit markets in the United States, Europe and the rest of the world has resulted in reduced access to credit worldwide. As of December 31, 2011, we had total outstanding indebtedness of $3.3 billion under our various credit facilities, including our equity-accounted subsidiaries. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world, among other factors. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the United States, Europe and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our credit facilities or any future financial arrangements. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and governmental factors, together with the concurrent decline in charter rates and vessel values, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, and may cause the price of our common shares to decline. The instability of the euro or the inability of countries to refinance their debts could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial position. As a result of the credit crisis in Europe, in particular in Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, the European Commission created the European Financial Stability Facility, or the EFSF, and the European Financial Stability Mechanism, or the EFSM, to provide funding to Eurozone countries in financial difficulties that seek such support. In March 2011, the European Council agreed on the need for Eurozone countries to establish a permanent stability mechanism, the European Stability Mechanism, or the ESM, to assume the role of the EFSF and the EFSM in providing external financial assistance to Eurozone countries. The launch of the ESM, which is expected in July 2012, is conditioned upon its ratification by EU member states representing 90% of the capital commitments. Despite these measures, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations and the overall stability of the euro. An extended period of adverse development in the outlook for European countries could reduce the overall demand for oil and gas and for our services. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. 4 If economic conditions throughout the world do not improve, it will impede our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our common shares to further decline. Negative trends in the global economy that emerged in 2008 continue to adversely affect global economic conditions. In addition, the world economy is currently facing a number of new challenges, including the recent turmoil and hostilities in the Middle East, North Africa and other geographic areas and countries. The deterioration in the global economy has caused, and may continue to cause, a decrease in worldwide demand for certain goods and, thus, shipping. Continuing economic instability could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy. A continued economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region, especially in Japan and China, may exacerbate the effect on us of the recent slowdown in the rest of the world. Since the global economic financial crisis that began in 2008, China's growth rate as determined by changes in its gross domestic product, or GDP, has been decreasing. The growth rate of China's GDP decreased to approximately 9.5% for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to approximately 10.3% for the year ended December 31, 2010, and continues to remain below pre-2008 levels. China has imposed measures to restrain lending, which may further contribute to a slowdown in its economic growth. China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region may continue to experience slower economic growth in the near future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our results of operations and ability to grow our fleet would be impeded by a continuing or worsening economic downturn in any of these countries. Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in certain respects, such as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation, and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five-year state plans are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through state plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management, and a gradual shift in emphasis to a "market economy" and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms have been undertaken with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform, the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 5 Loss of our flag state extensions of the deadlines for prohibiting the trading of our non-double hull tankers could adversely affect our operations. The United States, the European Union and the International Maritime Organization, or the IMO, have all imposed limits or prohibitions on the use of non-double hull tankers in specified markets after certain target dates, depending on certain factors such as the size of the vessel and the type of cargo. In the case of our non-double hull tankers, these phase out dates range from 2010 to 2018. The Marine Environmental Protection Committee of the IMO, or MEPC, has amended the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships to accelerate the phase out of certain categories of non-double hull tankers, including the types of vessels in our fleet, from 2015 to 2010 unless the relevant flag states extend the date. Our fleet includes two non-double hull tankers, the Titan Aries and the Ticen Ocean, which we have agreed to sell, with delivery to the new owner expected in the fourth quarter of 2012 and the third quarter of 2013, respectively. Although we have obtained flag state extensions to continue operating our non-double hull tankers until 2015, such flag state extensions may be revoked for any reason prior to such time. Our non-double hull tankers will be unable to trade in many markets due to the passing of the phase-out date in 2010. In addition, non-double hull tankers are likely to be chartered less frequently and at lower rates. Additional regulations may be adopted in the future that could further adversely affect the useful lives of our non-double hull tankers, as well as our ability to generate income from them. Safety, environmental and other governmental and other requirements expose us to liability, and compliance with current and future regulations could require significant additional expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national, state and local laws, regulations, treaties, conventions and standards in force in international waters, the jurisdictions in which our tankers and other vessels operate, and the country or countries in which such vessels are registered, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of oil spills and other contamination, air emissions, and water discharges and ballast water management. These regulations include the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or the OPA, the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, the U.S. Clean Water Act, the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 and regulations of the IMO, including the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1975, the International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, and the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966. In addition, vessel classification societies and the requirements set forth in the IMO's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention, or the ISM Code, also impose significant safety and other requirements on our vessels. In complying with current and future environmental requirements, vessel owners and operators may also incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become stricter in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution, and our compliance with these requirements can be costly. These requirements can also affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require reductions in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in certain ports. 6 Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, natural resource damages and third-party claims for personal injury or property damages, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our current or historic operations. We could also incur substantial penalties, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions, including in certain instances seizure or detention of our vessels, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws, regulations and other requirements. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. For example, OPA affects all vessel owners shipping oil to, from or within the United States. Under OPA, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil in U.S. waters, including the 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. Similarly the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, or the CLC, which has been adopted by most countries outside of the United States, imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. OPA expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries, provided they accept, at a minimum, the levels of liability established under OPA. Coastal states in the United States have enacted pollution prevention liability and response laws, many providing for unlimited liability. Furthermore, the 2010 explosion of the drilling rig Deepwater Horizon, which is unrelated to Ship Finance, and the subsequent release of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, or other events, may result in further regulation of the shipping and offshore industries and modifications to statutory liability schemes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An oil spill could also result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other international and U.S. federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages, and could harm our reputation with current or potential charterers of our vessels. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although we have arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and available cash. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Indian Ocean and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Although sea piracy worldwide decreased slightly in 2011 for the first time in five years, throughout 2008, 2009 and 2010, the frequency of piracy incidents increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia, with drybulk vessels and tankers particularly vulnerable to such attacks. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized as "war risk" zones by insurers, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, or Joint War Committee "war and strikes" listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including those due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Our vessels may call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments, which could adversely affect our business. We have not entered into, nor do we have any future plans to enter into, any contracts, agreements or other arrangements with countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism, such as Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria. From time to time, however, on charterers' instructions, our vessels may call on ports located in, or our drilling units may be located offshore of, countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. We do not consider the revenues received from these charters to be material to our results of operations. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act, or CISADA, which expanded the scope of the Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to companies such as ours, and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our company. Additionally, some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our company simply because we do business with companies that do business in sanctioned countries. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Investor perception of the value of our company may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. In the highly competitive international seaborne transportation industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources, and as a result we may be unable to employ our vessels profitably. We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented, and competition arises primarily from other vessel owners. Competition for seaborne transportation of goods and products is intense and depends on charter rate, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could operate larger fleets than we may operate and thus be able to offer lower charter rates and higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. If this were to occur, we may be unable to retain or attract new charterers on attractive terms or at all, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An over-supply of vessel capacity may lead to further reductions in charter hire rates and profitability. The supply of vessels generally increases with deliveries of new vessels and decreases with the scrapping of older vessels, conversion of vessels to other uses, such as floating production and storage facilities, and loss of tonnage as a result of casualties. Currently, there is significant newbuilding activity with respect to virtually all sizes and classes of vessels. An over-supply of vessel capacity, combined with a decline in the demand for such vessels, may result in a further reduction of charter hire rates. If such a reduction continues in the future, upon the expiration or termination of our vessels' current charters, we may only be able to re-charter our vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to charter our vessels at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. 8 Increased inspection procedures, tighter import and export controls and new security regulations could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin, destination and trans-shipment points. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of the contents of our vessels, delays in loading, offloading or delivery, and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. For example, since the events of September 11, 2001, U.S. authorities have significantly increased the levels of inspection for all imported containers. Government investment in non-intrusive container scanning technology has grown, and there is interest in electronic monitoring technology, including so-called "e-seals" and "smart" containers that would enable remote, centralized monitoring of containers during shipment to identify tampering with or opening of the containers, along with potentially measuring other characteristics such as temperature, air pressure, motion, chemicals, biological agents and radiation. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The offshore drilling sector depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by, among other things, volatile oil and gas prices, and may be materially and adversely affected by a decline in the offshore oil and gas industry. The offshore contract drilling industry is cyclical and volatile, and depends on the level of activity in oil and gas exploration and development and production in offshore areas worldwide. The availability of quality drilling prospects, exploration success, relative production costs, the stage of reservoir development and political and regulatory environments affect our customers' drilling campaigns. Oil and gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in these prices, also significantly affect the level of activity and demand for drilling units. Any decrease in exploration, development or production expenditures by oil and gas companies could materially and adversely affect the business of the charterers of our drilling units, and their ability to perform under their existing charters with us. Also, increased competition for our customers' drilling budgets could come from, among other areas, land-based energy markets in Africa, Russia, other former Soviet Union states, the Middle East and Alaska. Worldwide military, political and economic events have contributed to oil and gas price volatility and are likely to do so in the future. Oil and gas prices are extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors, including the following: · worldwide production and demand for oil and gas; · the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and gas; · expectations regarding future energy prices; · advances in exploration, development and production technology; · the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to set and maintain production levels and pricing; · the level of production in non-OPEC countries; · government regulations; · local and international political, economic and weather conditions; · domestic and foreign tax policies; 9 · the development and implementation of policies to increase the use of renewable energy; · the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves; and · the worldwide military and political environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities, insurrection, or other crises in the Middle East or other geographic areas, or further acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere. Declines in oil and gas prices for an extended period, or market expectations of potential decreases in these prices, could negatively affect the offshore drilling sector. Sustained periods of low oil prices typically result in reduced exploration and drilling, because oil and gas companies' capital expenditure budgets are subject to their cash flows and are therefore sensitive to changes in energy prices. These changes in commodity prices can have a dramatic effect on the demand for drilling units, and periods of low demand can cause an excess supply of drilling units and intensify competition in the industry, which often results in drilling units, particularly older and lower specification drilling units, being idle for long periods of time. We cannot predict the future level of demand for drilling units or future conditions of the oil and gas industry. In addition to oil and gas prices, the offshore drilling industry is influenced by additional factors, including: · the availability of competing offshore drilling units; · the level of costs for associated offshore oilfield and construction services; · oil and gas transportation costs; · the discovery of new oil and gas reserves; · the cost of non-conventional hydrocarbons, such as the exploitation of oil sands; and · regulatory restrictions on offshore drilling. An over-supply of drilling units may lead to a reduction in day-rates and therefore may adversely affect the ability of certain of our rig charterers to make charterhire payments to us. We have chartered three of our drilling units to three subsidiaries of Seadrill Limited, or Seadrill, namely Seadrill Deepwater Charterer Ltd., or Seadrill Deepwater, Seadrill Offshore AS, or Seadrill Offshore, and Seadrill Polaris Ltd., or Seadrill Polaris, which we refer to collectively as the "Seadrill Charterers". In addition, we have chartered one drilling unit to Apexindo Offshore Pte. Ltd., or Apexindo. The Seadrill Charterers and Apexindo are collectively referred to as the "Rig Charterers". Following the 2008 peak in the oil price of around $140 per barrel, there was a period of high utilization and high dayrates, which prompted industry participants to increase the supply of drilling units by ordering the construction of new drilling units. According to industry sources, the worldwide fleet of drilling rigs increased from 622 units at the end of 2008 to 727 units at the end of 2011, and significant further deliveries of new units are projected. A relatively large number of the drilling units currently under construction have not been contracted for future work, which may intensify price competition as scheduled delivery dates occur and lead to a reduction in day-rates as the active fleet grows. In addition, the new construction of high-specification rigs, as well as changes in the Rig Charterers' competitors' drilling rig fleets, could cause our drilling units to become less competitive. Lower utilization and dayrates could adversely affect the Rig Charterers' ability to secure drilling contracts and, therefore, their ability to make charterhire payments to us, and may cause them to terminate or renegotiate their charter agreements to our detriment. 10 Consolidation of suppliers may limit the ability of the Rig Charterers to obtain supplies and services for their offshore drilling operations at an acceptable cost, on schedule or at all, which may have a material adverse effect on their ability to make charterhire payments to us. The Rig Charterers may rely on certain third parties to provide supplies and services necessary for their offshore drilling operations, including but not limited to drilling equipment suppliers, catering and machinery suppliers. Recent mergers have reduced the number of available suppliers, resulting in fewer alternatives for sourcing key supplies. The Rig Charterers may not be able to obtain supplies and services at an acceptable cost, at the times they need them or at all. Such consolidation, combined with a high volume of drilling units under construction, may result in a shortage of supplies and services thereby potentially inhibiting the ability of suppliers to deliver on time. These cost increases or delays could have a material adverse affect on the Rig Charterers' results of operations and financial condition, and may adversely affect their ability to make charterhire payments to us. Governmental laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, may add to the costs of the Rig Charterers or limit their drilling activity, and may adversely affect their ability to make charterhire payments to us. The Rig Charterers' business in the offshore drilling industry is affected by public policy and laws and regulations relating to the energy industry and the environment in the geographic areas where they operate. The offshore drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration and production industry, and accordingly the Rig Charterers are directly affected by the adoption of laws and regulations that for economic, environmental or other policy reasons curtail exploration and development drilling for oil and gas. The Rig Charterers may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. It is also possible that these laws and regulations may in the future add significantly to the Rig Charterers' operating costs or significantly limit drilling activity. Governments in some countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas, and other aspects of the oil and gas industries. In recent years, increased concern has been raised over protection of the environment. Offshore drilling in certain areas has been opposed by environmental groups, and has in certain cases been restricted. In certain jurisdictions there are or may be imposed restrictions or limitations on the operation of foreign flag vessels and rigs, and these restrictions may prevent us or our charterers from operating our assets as intended. We can not guarantee that we or our charterers will be able to accommodate such restrictions or limitations, nor that we or our charterers can relocate the assets to other jurisdictions where such restrictions or limitations do not apply. A violation of such restrictions, or expropriation in particular, could result in the total loss of our investments and/or financial loss for our charterers, and we can not guarantee that we have sufficient insurance coverage to compensate for such loss. This may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. To the extent that new laws are enacted or other governmental actions are taken that prohibit or restrict offshore drilling or impose additional environmental protection requirements that result in increased costs to the oil and gas industry in general or the offshore drilling industry in particular, the Rig Charterers' business or prospects could be materially adversely affected. The operation of our drilling units will require certain governmental approvals, the number and prerequisites of which cannot be determined until the Rig Charterers identify the jurisdictions in which they will operate upon securing contracts for the drilling units. Depending on the jurisdiction, these governmental approvals may involve public hearings and costly undertakings on the part of the Rig Charterers. The Rig Charterers may not obtain such approvals, or such approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner. If the Rig Charterers fail to secure the necessary approvals or permits in a timely manner, their customers may have the right to terminate or seek to renegotiate their drilling services contracts to the Rig Charterers' detriment. The amendment or modification of existing laws and regulations, or the adoption of new laws and regulations curtailing or further regulating exploratory or development drilling and production of oil and gas, could have a material adverse effect on the Rig Charterers' business, operating results or financial condition. Future earnings of the Rig Charterers may be negatively affected by compliance with any such new legislation or regulations. In addition, the Rig Charterers may become subject to additional laws and regulations as a result of future rig operations or repositioning. These factors may adversely affect the ability of the Rig Charterers to make charterhire payments to us. 11 Acts of terrorism and political and social unrest could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Political and social unrest and terrorist attacks, such as those in New York on September 11, 2001, in London on July 7, 2005, and in Mumbai on November 26, 2008, and the continuing world-wide response to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks around the world, continue to cause uncertainty in the world's financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Continuing conflicts in North Africa and the Middle East and the presence of United States and other armed forces in Afghanistan, and various other regions, may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Insurance premiums could increase and coverage may be unavailable in the future. U.S. government regulations may effectively preclude us from actively engaging in business activities in certain countries, and such regulations could be amended to cover countries where we currently operate or where we may wish to operate in the future. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. Our business has inherent operational risks, which may not be adequately covered by insurance. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost, due to events such as marine disasters, bad weather, mechanical failures, human error, environmental accidents, war, terrorism, piracy, political circumstances and hostilities in foreign countries, labor strikes and boycotts, changes in tax rates or policies, and governmental expropriation of our vessels. Any of these events may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows to our customers, which could impair their ability to make payments to us under our charters. In the event of a casualty to a vessel or other catastrophic event, we will rely on our insurance to pay the insured value of the vessel or the damages incurred. Through the agreements with our vessel managers, we procure insurance for most of the vessels in our fleet employed under time charters against those risks that we believe the shipping industry commonly insures against. These insurances include marine hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which include pollution risks and crew insurances, and war risk insurance. Currently, the amount of coverage for liability for pollution, spillage and leakage available to us on commercially reasonable terms through protection and indemnity associations and providers of excess coverage is $1 billion per vessel per occurrence. We cannot assure you that we will be adequately insured against all risks. Our vessel managers may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our vessels in the future. For example, in the past more stringent environmental regulations have led to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. Additionally, our insurers may refuse to pay particular claims. For example, the circumstances of a spill, including non-compliance with environmental laws, could result in denial of coverage, protracted litigation, and delayed or diminished insurance recoveries or settlements. Any significant loss or liability for which we are not insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Under the terms of our bareboat charters, the charterer is responsible for procuring all insurances for the vessel. 12 Maritime claimants could arrest one or more of our vessels, which could interrupt our customers' or our cash flows. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against one or more of our vessels for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt the cash flow of the charterer and/or the Company and require us to pay a significant amount of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against vessels in our fleet managed by our vessel managers for claims relating to another vessel managed by that manager. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency without adequate compensation, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment could be materially less than the charterhire that would have been payable otherwise. In addition, we would bear all risk of loss or damage to a vessel under requisition for hire. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues and reduce the amount of dividends paid, if any, to our shareholders. As our fleet ages, the risks associated with older vessels could adversely affect our operations. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase as the vessel ages. Due to improvements in engine technology, older vessels are typically less fuel-efficient than more recently constructed vessels. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety, environmental or other equipment standards related to the age of tankers and other types of vessels may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our vessels to comply with safety or environmental laws or regulations that may be enacted in the future. These laws or regulations may also restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage or prohibit their operation in certain geographic regions. We cannot predict what alterations or modifications our vessels may be required to undergo as a result of requirements that may be promulgated in the future, or that as our vessels age market conditions will justify any required expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. 13 There are risks associated with the purchase and operation of second-hand vessels. Our current business strategy includes additional growth through the acquisition of both newbuildings and second-hand vessels. Although we generally inspect second-hand vessels prior to purchase, this does not normally provide us with the same knowledge about the vessels' condition that we would have had if such vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Therefore, our future operating results could be negatively affected if the vessels do not perform as we expect. Also, we do not receive the benefit of warranties from the builders if the vessels we buy are older than one year. Risks relating to our Company Changes in our dividend policy could adversely affect holders of our common shares. Any dividend that we declare is at the discretion of our Board of Directors. We cannot assure you that our dividend will not be reduced or eliminated in the future. Our profitability and corresponding ability to pay dividends is substantially affected by amounts we receive through charter hire and profit sharing payments from our charterers. Our entitlement to profit sharing payments, if any, is based on the financial performance of our vessels which is outside of our control. If our charter hire and profit sharing payments decrease substantially, we may not be able to continue to pay dividends at present levels, or at all. We are also subject to contractual limitations on our ability to pay dividends pursuant to certain debt agreements, and we may agree to additional limitations in the future. Additional factors that could affect our ability to pay dividends include statutory and contractual limitations on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us, including under current or future debt arrangements. We depend on our charterers and principally the Frontline Charterers and the Seadrill Charterers for our operating cash flows and for our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Most of the tanker vessels and oil/bulk/ore carriers, or OBOs, in our fleet are chartered to subsidiaries of Frontline Ltd, or Frontline, namely Frontline Shipping Limited, Frontline Shipping II Limited and Frontline Shipping III Limited, which we refer to collectively as the Frontline Charterers. In addition, we have chartered three of our drilling units to the Seadrill Charterers. Our other vessels that have charters attached to them are chartered to other customers under medium to long-term time and bareboat charters, except two, which are on short-term time charters until May and June 2012. The charter hire payments that we receive from our customers constitute substantially all of our operating cash flows. The Frontline Charterers have no business or sources of funds other than those related to the chartering of our tanker fleet to third parties. In December 2011, as a result of adverse conditions in the tanker market, Frontline completed a restructuring plan which included the transfer of certain of its assets and substantially all of its bank debt to a new company, Frontline 2012 Ltd. On December 30, 2011, our charter agreements with the Frontline Charterers, which all remain wholly-owned subsidiaries of Frontline, were amended and we agreed to temporarily reduce the charter rates payable on our double-hull tankers by $6,500 per day per vessel from 2012 through 2015. We received compensation payments from Frontline in the amount of $106 million in cash, including the release of $56 million restricted cash previously serving as security for their charter payments to us. Frontline continues to guarantee the payment of charterhire with respect to Frontline Shipping Limited, or Frontline Shipping, and Frontline Shipping II Limited, or Frontline Shipping II. The two vessels chartered to Frontline Shipping III Limited, or Frontline Shipping III, are non-double hull vessels on which the charters may be terminated at the option of Frontline Shipping III on giving 30 days notice. 14 Although there are restrictions on the Frontline Charterers' rights to use their cash to pay dividends or make other distributions, at any given time their available cash may be diminished or exhausted, and they may be unable to make charterhire payments to us without support from Frontline. The performance under the charters with the Seadrill Charterers is guaranteed by Seadrill. If the Frontline Charterers, the Seadrill Charterers or any of our other charterers are unable to make charterhire payments to us, our results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected and we may not have cash available to pay debt service or for distributions to our shareholders. The amount of the profit sharing payment we receive under our charters with the Frontline Charterers, if any, and our ability to pay our ordinary quarterly dividend, may depend on prevailing spot market rates, which are volatile. Most of our tanker vessels and our OBOs operate under time charters to the Frontline Charterers. These charter contracts provide for base charterhire and additional profit sharing payments when the Frontline Charterers' earnings from deploying our vessels exceed certain levels. The exception to this is our non-double hull tanker vessels, which have been excluded from the annual profit sharing payment calculation after reaching their anniversary dates in 2010, linked to the IMO phase-out regulations for non-double hull tankers. The majority of our vessels chartered to the Frontline Charterers are sub-chartered by the Frontline Charterers in the spot market, which is subject to greater volatility than the long-term time charter market, and the amount of future profit sharing payments that we receive, if any, will be primarily dependent on the strength of the spot market. Prior to December 31, 2011, the Frontline Charterers paid the Company a profit sharing rate of 20% of their earnings above average threshold charter rates on a time-charter equivalent basis from their use of the Company's fleet each fiscal year. Starting on January 1, 2012, the amendments to the charter agreements increased the profit sharing percentage to 25% for earnings above those threshold levels. Additionally, the amendments provide that during the four year period of the temporary reduction in charter rates, the Frontline Charterers will pay the Company 100% of any earnings on a time-charter equivalent basis above the temporarily reduced time charter rates, subject to a maximum of $6,500 per day. Under the terms of the amendments to the charter agreements, we received a compensation payment of $106 million, of which $50 million represents a non-refundable advance relating to the 25% profit sharing agreement. We cannot assure you that we will receive any profit sharing payments for any periods in the future. Furthermore, our future quarterly dividend may depend on us receiving profit sharing payments or require that we continue to expand our fleet, so that in either case we receive cash flows in addition to the cash flows we receive from our base charterhire from the Frontline Charterers and charter payments from other customers. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will continue to pay quarterly dividends. 15 The market values of our vessels and drilling units may decrease, which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow or trigger certain financial covenants under our current or future credit facilities and we may incur a loss if we sell vessels or drilling units following a decline in their market value. This could affect future dividend payments. During the period a vessel or drilling unit is subject to a charter, we will not be permitted to sell it to take advantage of increases in vessel or drilling unit values without the charterers' agreement. Conversely, if the charterers were to default under the charters due to adverse market conditions, causing a termination of the charters, it is likely that the fair market value of our vessels would also be depressed. The fair market values of our vessels and drilling units have generally experienced high volatility. According to shipbrokers, the market prices for secondhand drybulk carriers, for example, have decreased sharply from their recent historically high levels. The fair market value of our vessels and drilling units may increase and decrease depending on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the prevailing level of charter rates and dayrates, general economic and market conditions affecting the international shipping and offshore drilling industries, types, sizes and ages of vessels and drilling units, supply and demand for vessels and drilling units, availability of or developments in other modes of transportation, competition from other shipping companies, cost of newbuildings, governmental or other regulations and technological advances. In addition, as vessels and drilling units grow older, they generally decline in value. If the fair market value of our vessels and drilling units declines, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our credit facilities and we may not be able to refinance our debt, obtain additional financing or make distributions to our shareholders. Additionally, if we sell one or more of our vessels or drilling units at a time when vessel and drilling unit prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our consolidated financial statements, the sale price may be less than the vessel's or drilling unit's carrying value on our consolidated financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. Furthermore, if vessel and drilling unit values fall significantly, we may have to record an impairment adjustment in our financial statements, which could adversely affect our financial results and condition. We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. From time to time, we enter into, among other things, charter parties with our customers, newbuilding contracts with shipyards, credit facilities with banks, guarantees, interest rate swap agreements, currency swap agreements, total return bond swaps, and total return equity swaps. Such agreements subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the maritime and offshore industries, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, charter rates and dayrates received for specific types of vessels and drilling units, and various expenses. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our charterers and customers may no longer need a vessel or drilling unit that is currently under charter or contract, or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel or drilling unit at a lower rate. As a result, charterers and customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing charter parties and drilling contracts, or avoid their obligations under those contracts. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 Volatility in the international shipping and offshore markets may cause our customers to be unable to pay charterhire to us. Our customers are subject to volatility in the shipping and offshore markets that affects their ability to operate the vessels and rigs they charter from us at a profit. Our customers' successful operation of our vessels and rigs in the charter market will depend on, among other things, their ability to obtain profitable charters. We cannot assure you that future charters will be available to our customers at rates sufficient to enable them to meet their obligations to make charterhire payments to us. As a result, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected. These factors include: · global and regional economic and political conditions; · supply and demand for oil and refined petroleum products, which is affected by, among other things, competition from alternative sources of energy; · supply and demand for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; · developments in international trade; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances that cargoes are transported; · environmental concerns and regulations; · weather; · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · the phase-out of non-double hull tankers from certain markets pursuant to national and international laws and regulations; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; and · changes in production of crude oil, particularly by OPEC and other key producers. Tanker charter rates also tend to be subject to seasonal variations, with demand (and therefore charter rates) normally higher in winter months in the northern hemisphere. We depend on directors who are associated with affiliated companies which may create conflicts of interest. Our principal shareholders Hemen Holding Ltd. and Farahead Investment Inc., which we refer to jointly as Hemen, are indirectly controlled by trusts established by Mr. John Fredriksen for the benefit of his immediate family. Hemen also has significant shareholdings in Frontline, Seadrill, Golden Ocean Group Limited, or Golden Ocean, and Deep Sea Supply Plc, or Deep Sea, which are all our customers and/or suppliers. Currently, one of our directors, Kate Blankenship, is also a director of Frontline, Golden Ocean and Seadrill and another of our directors, Cecilie A. Fredriksen, the daughter of Mr. John Fredriksen, is also a director of Frontline and Golden Ocean. These two directors owe fiduciary duties to the shareholders of each company and may have conflicts of interest in matters involving or affecting us and our customers. In addition, due to any ownership they may have in common shares of Frontline, Golden Ocean, Deep Sea or Seadrill, they may have conflicts of interest when faced with decisions that could have different implications for Frontline, Golden Ocean, Deep Sea or Seadrill than they do for us. We cannot assure you that any of these conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. The agreements between us and affiliates of Hemen may be less favorable to us than agreements that we could obtain from unaffiliated third parties. The charters, management agreements, charter ancillary agreements and the other contractual agreements we have with companies affiliated with Hemen were made in the context of an affiliated relationship. Although every effort was made to ensure that such agreements were made on an arm's-length basis, the negotiation of these agreements may have resulted in prices and other terms that are less favorable to us than terms we might have obtained in arm's-length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties for similar services. 17 Hemen and its associated companies' business activities may conflict with ours. While Frontline has agreed to cause the Frontline Charterers to use their commercial best efforts to employ our vessels on market terms and not to give preferential treatment in the marketing of any other vessels owned or managed by Frontline or its other affiliates, it is possible that conflicts of interests in this regard will adversely affect us. Under our charter ancillary agreements with the Frontline Charterers and Frontline, we are entitled to receive annual profit sharing payments to the extent that the average daily time-charter equivalent, or TCE, rates realized by the Frontline Charterers exceed specified levels. Because Frontline also owns or manages other vessels in addition to our fleet, which are not included in the profit sharing calculation, conflicts of interest may arise between us and Frontline in the allocation of chartering opportunities that could limit our fleet's earnings and reduce the profit sharing payments or charterhire due under our charters. Our shareholders must rely on us to enforce our rights against our contract counterparties. Holders of our common shares and other securities have no direct right to enforce the obligations of the Frontline Charterers, Frontline Management (Bermuda) Ltd., or Frontline Management, Frontline, Golden Ocean, Deep Sea, the Seadrill Charterers and Seadrill or any of our other customers under the charters, or any of the other agreements to which we are a party. Accordingly, if any of those counterparties were to breach their obligations to us under any of these agreements, our shareholders would have to rely on us to pursue our remedies against those counterparties. There is a risk that U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company," which would have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income", but income from bareboat charters does constitute "passive income." U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Under these rules, if our income from our time charters is considered to be passive rental income, rather than income from the performance of services, we will be considered to be a PFIC. We believe that it is more likely than not that our income from time charters will not be treated as passive rental income for purposes of determining whether we are a PFIC. Correspondingly, we believe that the assets that we own and operate in the connection with the production of such income do not constitute passive assets for purposes of determining whether we are a PFIC. This position is principally based upon the positions that (1) our time charter income will constitute services income, rather than rental income and (2) Frontline Management, which provides services to most of our time-chartered vessels, will be respected as a separate entity from the Frontline Charterers, with which it is affiliated. Nevertheless, for the 2012 taxable year and future taxable years, depending upon the relative amounts of income we derive from our various assets as well as their relative fair market values, we may be treated as a PFIC. 18 We note that there is no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our current and expected method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a significant risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Furthermore, even if we would not be a PFIC under the foregoing tests, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if the nature and extent of our operations were to change. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. For example, U.S. non-corporate shareholders would not be eligible for the 15% maximum tax rate on dividends that we pay. We may have to pay tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States may be subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. We believe that we and each of our subsidiaries qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we will take this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income. For example, Hemen owned approximately 43% of our common shares as of December 31, 2011. There is therefore a risk that we could no longer qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code for a particular taxable year if other shareholders with a five percent or greater interest in our common shares were, in combination with Hemen, to own 50% or more of our outstanding common shares on more than half the days during the taxable year. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we, or our subsidiaries, are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, we, or our subsidiaries, could be subject for those years to an effective 2% U.S. federal income tax on the gross shipping income these companies derive during the year that is attributable to the transport of cargoes to or from the United States. The imposition of this tax would have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. If our long-term time or bareboat charters or management agreements with respect to our vessels employed on long-term time charters terminate, we could be exposed to increased volatility in our business and financial results, our revenues could significantly decrease and our operating expenses could significantly increase. If any of our charters terminate, we may not be able to re-charter those vessels on a long-term basis with terms similar to the terms of our existing charters, or at all. The terms of our current charters for our tanker vessels to the Frontline Charterers, excluding the two non-double hull tankers which are the subject of sales agreements, end between 2015 and 2027. 19 Apart from five containerships, for which charters are being sought, and two containerships on short-term charters due to expire in May 2012 and June 2012, respectively, the vessels in our fleet that have charters attached to them are generally contracted to expire between two and 15 years from now. However, we have granted some of our charterers purchase or early termination options that, if exercised, may effectively terminate our charters with these customers at an earlier date. One or more of the charters with respect to our vessels may also terminate in the event of a requisition for title or a loss of a vessel. In addition, under our vessel management agreements with Frontline Management, for a fixed management fee, Frontline Management is responsible for all of the technical and operational management of the vessels chartered by the Frontline Charterers, and will indemnify us against certain loss of hire and various other liabilities relating to the operation of these vessels. We may terminate our management agreements with Frontline Management for any reason at any time on 90 days' notice, or an agreement may be terminated if the relevant charter is terminated. We currently own seven containerships and ten drybulk carriers which operate, or are expected to be operated, under time charters, and have entered into agreements to acquire a further four containerships and two drybulk carriers which are scheduled to operate under time charters. The agreements for the technical and operational management of these vessels are not fixed price agreements, and we cannot assure you that any further vessels which we may acquire in the future will be operated under fixed price management agreements. Therefore, to the extent that we acquire additional vessels, our cash flow could be more volatile in the future and we could be exposed to increases in our vessel operating expenses, each of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and business. If the delivery of any of the vessels that we have agreed to acquire is delayed or they are delivered with significant defects, our earnings and financial condition could suffer. As at April 17, 2012, we have entered into agreements to acquire two additional drybulk carriers and four additional containerships. A delay in the delivery of any of these vessels or the failure of the contract counterparty to deliver any of these vessels could cause us to breach our obligations under related charter, financing and sales agreements that we have entered into, and could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. In addition, an acceptance of any of these vessels with substantial defects could have similar consequences Certain of our vessels are subject to purchase options held by the charterer of the vessel, which, if exercised, could reduce the size of our fleet and reduce our future revenues. The market values of our vessels are expected to change from time to time depending on a number of factors including general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry, competition, cost of vessel construction, governmental or other regulations, prevailing levels of charter rates and technological changes. We have granted fixed price purchase options to certain of our customers with respect to the vessels they have chartered from us, and these prices may be less than the respective vessel's market value at the time the option may be exercised. In addition, we may not be able to obtain a replacement vessel for the price at which we sell the vessel. In such a case, we could incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. A change in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. As of December 31, 2011, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries had approximately $1.5 billion in floating rate debt outstanding under our credit facilities, and a further $1.4 billion in unconsolidated wholly-owned subsidiaries accounted for under the equity method. Although we use interest rate swaps to manage our interest rate exposure and have interest rate adjustment clauses in some of our chartering agreements, we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates. For a portion of our floating rate debt, if interest rates rise, interest payments on our floating rate debt that we have not swapped into effectively fixed rates would increase. 20 As of December 31, 2011, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries have entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest on $1.1 billion of our outstanding indebtedness, and we have also entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest on $0.9 billion of the outstanding indebtedness of our equity-accounted subsidiaries. An increase in interest rates could cause us to incur additional costs associated with our debt service, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our maximum exposure to interest rate fluctuations on our outstanding debt at December 31, 2011, was approximately $883 million, including our equity-accounted subsidiaries. A one percentage change in interest rates would at most increase or decrease interest expense by approximately $9 million per year as of December 31, 2011. The maximum figure does not take into account that certain of our charter contracts include interest adjustment clauses, whereby the charter rate is adjusted to reflect the actual interest paid on a deemed outstanding debt related to the assets on charter. At December 31, 2011, $1.5 billion of our floating rate debt was subject to such interest adjustment clauses, including our equity-accounted subsidiaries. Of this amount, a total of $1.1 billion was subject to interest rate swaps and the balance of $421 million remained on a floating rate basis. The interest rate swaps that have been entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries are derivative financial instruments that effectively translate floating rate debt into fixed rate debt. US GAAP requires that these derivatives be valued at current market prices in our financial statements, with increases or decreases in valuations reflected in results of operations or, if the instrument is designated as a hedge, in other comprehensive income. Changes in interest rates give rise to changes in the valuations of interest rate swaps and could adversely affect results of operations and other comprehensive income. We may have difficulty managing our planned growth properly. Since our original acquisitions from Frontline, we have expanded and diversified our fleet, and we are performing certain administrative services through our wholly-owned subsidiaries Ship Finance Management AS and Ship Finance Management (Bermuda) Ltd. We intend to continue to expand our fleet. Our future growth will primarily depend on our ability to locate and acquire suitable vessels and drilling units, identify and consummate acquisitions or joint ventures, obtain required financing, integrate any acquired vessels and drilling units with our existing operations, enhance our customer base, and manage our expansion. The growth in the size and diversity of our fleet will continue to impose additional responsibilities on our management, and may present numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty in recruiting additional qualified personnel and managing relationships with customers and suppliers, and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth. 21 We are highly leveraged and subject to restrictions in our financing agreements that impose constraints on our operating and financing flexibility. We have significant indebtedness outstanding under our 8.5% senior unsecured notes issued in December 2003 and due in 2013, our convertible unsecured senior bonds and our senior unsecured bonds. We have also entered into loan facilities that we have used to refinance existing indebtedness and to acquire additional vessels. We may need to refinance some or all of our indebtedness on maturity of our Senior Notes, bonds or loan facilities and to acquire additional vessels in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we cannot refinance our indebtedness, we will have to dedicate some or all of our cash flows, and we may be required to sell some of our assets, to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. In such a case, we may not be able to pay dividends to our shareholders and may not be able to grow our fleet as planned. We may also incur additional debt in the future. Our loan facilities and the indentures for our Senior Notes and bonds subject us to limitations on our business and future financing activities, including: · limitations on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, including issuance of additional guarantees; · limitations on incurrence of liens; · limitations on our ability to pay dividends and make other distributions; and · limitations on our ability to renegotiate or amend our charters, management agreements and other material agreements. Further, our loan facilities contain financial covenants that require us to, among other things: · provide additional security under the loan facility or prepay an amount of the loan facility as necessary to maintain the fair market value of our vessels securing the loan facility at not less than specified percentages (ranging from 100% to 140%) of the principal amount outstanding under the loan facility; · maintain available cash on a consolidated basis of not less than $25 million; · maintain positive working capital on a consolidated basis; and · maintain a ratio of total liabilities to adjusted total assets of less than 0.80. Under the terms of our loan facilities, we may not make distributions to our shareholders if we do not satisfy these covenants or receive waivers from the lenders. We cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy these covenants in the future. Due to these restrictions, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders' permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interests. Our debt service obligations require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to required payments on indebtedness and could limit our ability to obtain additional financing, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, and carry out other general corporate activities in the future. These obligations may also limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the shipping industry or detract from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage to other less leveraged competitors. We may be subject to litigation that, if not resolved in our favor and not sufficiently insured against, could have a material adverse effect on us. We may be, from time to time, involved in various litigation matters. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, employment matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties, and other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. Although we intend to defend these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, and the ultimate outcome of any litigation or the potential costs to resolve them may have a material adverse effect on us. Insurance may not be applicable or sufficient in all cases and/or insurers may not remain solvent which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 22 Risks Relating to Our Common Shares We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial and other obligations. We are a holding company, and have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries own all of our vessels and drilling units, and payments under our charter agreements are made to our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of a subsidiary to make these distributions could be affected by a claim or other action by a third party or by the law of their respective jurisdiction of incorporation which regulates the payment of dividends by companies. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we will not be able to pay dividends to our shareholders. The market price of our common shares may be unpredictable and volatile. The market price of our common shares has been volatile. Since January 1, 2011, the closing market price of our common shares has ranged from a high of $22.43 on January 13, 2011, to a low of $8.66 on December 19, 2011. The market price of our common shares may continue to fluctuate due to factors such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry, any reductions in the payment of our dividends or changes in our dividend policy, mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry, market conditions in the shipping industry, changes in government regulation, shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts, announcements concerning us or our competitors and the general state of the securities market. The shipping industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for common shares in this industry may be equally volatile. Therefore, we cannot assure you that you will be able to sell any of our common shares you may have purchased at a price greater than or equal to its original purchase price. Future sales of our common shares could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. The market price of our common shares could decline due to sales of a large number of our shares in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. This could depress the market price of our common shares and make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate, or at all. Because we are a foreign corporation, you may not have the same rights as a shareholder in a U.S. corporation has. We are a Bermuda exempted company. Bermuda law may not as clearly establish your rights and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors as do statutes and judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In addition, most of our directors and officers are not resident in the United States and the majority of our assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, investors may have more difficulty in protecting their interests and enforcing judgments in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. 23 Our major shareholder, Hemen, may be able to influence us, including the outcome of shareholder votes, with interests that may be different from yours. As at April 17, 2012, Hemen owned approximately 43% of our outstanding common shares. As a result of its ownership of our common shares, Hemen may influence our business, including the outcome of any vote of our shareholders. Hemen also currently beneficially owns substantial stakes in Frontline, Golden Ocean, Seadrill and Deep Sea. The interests of Hemen may be different from your interests. 