Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings before making any investment decisions with respect to our common stock. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, prospects, reputation, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and our stockholders could lose all or part of their investment. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and cannot assure you that we will again achieve profitability. The extent of our future operating income or losses is highly uncertain, and we may not be able to reach and sustain profitability. We have incurred significant cumulative net losses since our inception, including net losses of approximately $3.9 million in 2003 and $4.7 million in 2004. In 2005 and 2006, we recorded net income of approximately $249,000 and $4.3 million, respectively. However, we incurred a net loss of approximately $8.4 million in 2007 as a result of a decline in revenues and increases in operating expenses. At December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $62.1 million. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reach profitability again and sustain profitability. If physicians or other healthcare providers are unable to obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party healthcare payers for procedures performed using our products, the adoption of our products and our future product sales will be severely harmed. Widespread adoption of our products by the medical community is unlikely to occur if physicians do not receive sufficient reimbursement from third-party payers for performing procedures using our products. If physicians are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement for procedures performed using our products, we may be unable to sell our products and our business would suffer significantly. Additionally, even if these procedures are reimbursed by third-party payers, adverse changes in payers' policies toward reimbursement for the procedures would harm our ability to market and sell our products. Third-party payers include those governmental programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, workers' compensation programs, private health insurers and other organizations. These organizations may deny coverage if they determine that a procedure was not reasonable or necessary, for example, if its use was not considered medically appropriate, or was experimental, or was performed for an unapproved indication. In addition, some health care systems are moving towards managed care arrangements in which they contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person, irrespective of the amount of care actually provided. These providers, in an effort to control healthcare costs, are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and, in some instances, have pressured medical suppliers to lower their prices. If we are pressured to lower our prices, our revenues may decline and our profitability could be harmed. CMS guidelines set the reimbursement rates for procedures covered by Medicare. Future regulatory action by CMS or other governmental agencies or negative clinical results may diminish reimbursement payments to physicians for performing procedures using our products. Medicaid reimbursement differs from state to state, and some state Medicaid programs may not reimburse physicians for performing procedures using our products in an adequate amount, if at all. Additionally, some private payers do not follow the CMS and Medicaid guidelines and may reimburse for only a portion of these procedures or not at all. We are unable to predict what changes will be made in the reimbursement methods used by private or governmental third-party payers. During the second half of 2006 and in 2007, several local Medicare carriers issued draft LCDs, final LCDs or coding articles particularly addressing coverage and reimbursement policies under 28 Medicare for nerve conduction studies performed using the NC-stat System. Several of these carriers indicated that they will not reimburse physicians under Medicare for nerve conduction studies performed using the NC-stat System under the three existing Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, codes for conventional nerve conduction studies (95900, 95903 and 95904), which provide for levels of reimbursement fixed by the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services, or CMS, but rather that physicians must submit claims for reimbursement for these procedures under a miscellaneous CPT code (95999), in which case the local carriers may determine the level of reimbursement to be paid, if any. Currently, there are three local Medicare carriers with final LCDs, one local Medicare carrier with a draft LCD, and one local Medicare carrier with a coding article which address coverage and reimbursement policies under Medicare for nerve conduction studies performed using the NC-stat System. One additional Medicare carrier, which had previously issued a final LCD, reversed their position effective June 30, 2007. In certain regions impacted by these reimbursement decisions, our customers have experienced lower levels of reimbursement and higher levels of claims denials. If physicians do not receive adequate reimbursement under the miscellaneous CPT code from those local carriers, our existing customers may continue to limit or curtail their use of the NC-stat System and we may be unable to obtain new customers, both of which could materially and adversely impact our revenues and profitability. The AMA formed a work group in early 2007 to examine the reimbursement coding of nerve conduction studies and nerve conduction equipment, including the NC-stat System. The findings of this committee were presented to the AMA CPT Editorial Panel at a meeting in February 2008. During the CPT Panel meeting, several proposals for new Category I CPT codes, which generally are included in the Medicare physician fee schedule and are assigned specified reimbursement values, were presented by the chairpersons of the work group and were supported by several physician societies. In spite of this, the only proposal voted on was for the creation of a new Category III CPT code, which generally would not be included on the Medicare physician fee schedule and would not generally have an assigned reimbursement value. At this meeting, we believe that the CPT Panel approved a new Category III CPT Code for nerve conduction studies performed using equipment with certain automated features such as the NC-stat System. Unless we are able to successfully challenge this decision, a new Category III CPT Code would likely be published in July 2008 and become effective in January 2009. In the event that a Category III CPT code is published which describes nerve conduction studies performed with the NC-stat System, it would likely result in limited or no Medicare reimbursement for such studies as a result of the potential that no specified reimbursement values would be assigned to these codes. This could also adversely impact reimbursement by other third party payers and could have an adverse and material impact on our revenues and results of operations. The LCDs and coding articles issued by local Medicare carriers have also addressed a number of other issues, including (1) the background and training of physicians supervising or performing nerve conduction studies, (2) the level of training requirements for technicians performing a nerve conduction study, (3) whether nerve conduction tests should be required to be performed concomitantly with a needle electromyography procedure and (4) whether the NC-stat System is comparable to conventional nerve conduction testing equipment. We do not believe that these LCDs prohibit physicians from receiving reimbursement under Medicare for medically necessary nerve conduction studies performed using the NC-stat System. However, these LCDs do appear to be targeted at limiting access to perform and/or reimbursement for nerve conduction studies. In certain cases, these LCDs are being interpreted or implemented in a manner that impacts the ability of physicians to receive reimbursement under Medicare, including lower levels of reimbursement and an increase in the number of claims being denied, for nerve conduction studies performed using the NC-stat System, which are having an adverse impact on our revenues. Additionally, a significant number of commercial payers, including the majority of regional Blue Cross Blue Shield carriers, and other major private payers, have adopted policies indicating that they will not provide reimbursement for the use of the NC-stat System. These commercial payers have cited 29 various reasons for their reimbursement policies, including, among others, that the NC-stat System is experimental and investigational. We are in the process of communicating with these payers, directly, through our customers or through our network of reimbursement consultants, to attempt to address their concerns. Third-party payers may also impose requirements on physicians to submit additional paperwork supporting the medical necessity of nerve conduction studies performed using the NC-stat System. We believe these requirements are negatively impacting the use of the NC-stat System by existing customers and our sales to new customers, both of which are having an adverse impact on our revenues. Additional third-party payers, including local Medicare carriers and commercial payers, could potentially take a position that could reduce or eliminate the reimbursement for the NC-stat System and could have the impact of deterring usage by our customers and could have an adverse impact on our revenues. If physicians do not receive access to and adequate reimbursement under the miscellaneous CPT code from those local carriers that currently, or in the future, require procedures performed using the NC-stat System to be submitted using that code, or if the AMA publishes a Category III CPT code for nerve conduction studies performed using equipment such as the NC-stat System, our existing customers may limit or curtail their use of the NC-stat System, we may be unable to obtain new customers and we may face increasing pricing pressure, all of which could materially adversely impact our business and our revenues and profitability, in particular. If the LCDs recently adopted or reimbursement determinations adopted in the future relating to the reimbursement of nerve conduction studies place additional restrictions or qualifications on the performance of these procedures generally or using the NC-stat System, our business, revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, in the short-term, the uncertainty caused by these recent changes, or other future changes, in third-party payers' reimbursement policies regarding nerve conduction studies may cause existing customers to reduce their use of the NC-stat System and potential new customers to defer a decision or decline to purchase the NC-stat System, which could materially adversely affect our business. We are expending and anticipate continuing to expend substantial resources to address potential reimbursement issues with third-party payers. Widespread adoption of the NC-stat System by the medical community is unlikely to occur if physicians do not receive satisfactory reimbursement from third-party payers for procedures performed with the NC-stat System. Many Medicare regions, including those accounting for 30 of the 50 states, allow examinations using the DigiScope to be reimbursed on the basis of a general diabetes diagnosis. All or part of six states require a diagnosis of pre-existing retinal disease before reimbursement for an examination using the DigiScope and another six states will only reimburse for fundus photography when performed in conjunction with an eye exam performed by an ophthalmologist or optometrist. Of the latter, a Medicare carrier for four of the six states issued informal directives curtailing reimbursement in the second quarter of 2007. Also during this period, regional Medicare carriers covering all or parts of nine other states issued proposed LCDs indicating that they would only reimburse for retinal photography, including "telescreening," when performed concurrently with a personal examination by an ophthalmologist or optometrist and that digital imaging systems used for the detection of diabetic retinopathy, which acquire images and transmit them to a remote area for interpretation, are considered screening and do not meet Medicare's reasonable and necessary criteria for reimbursement. Although this decision does not have a material impact on our current business, we can offer no assurance that other Medicare carriers will not propose and adopt similar no coverage decisions. We may be unable to expand the market for the NC-stat System, which would limit our ability to increase our revenues. We believe that the drawbacks of traditional nerve conduction studies, including those related to the referral process, and the limited treatment options for DPN, have limited the number of nerve conduction studies that are performed. For our future growth, we are relying, in part, on increased use 30 of nerve conduction studies. A number of factors could limit the increased use of nerve conduction studies and the NC-stat System, including: •third-party payers challenging, or the threat of third-party payers challenging, the necessity of increased levels of nerve conduction studies; •third-party payers reducing or eliminating reimbursement for procedures performed by physicians using the NC-stat System; •unfavorable experiences by physicians using the NC-stat System; •physicians' reluctance to alter their existing practices; and •the failure of other companies' existing drug development programs to produce an effective treatment for DPN, which may limit the perceived need and the actual use of the NC-stat System in connection with this disease, and thereby limit or delay our growth in the DPN market, which we have estimated to be our largest potential market for our NC-stat System. If we are unable to expand the market for the NC-stat System, our ability to increase our revenues will be limited and our business prospects will be adversely affected. Under-utilization of the DigiScope by customers may negatively affect our cash flow and potential profitability. We lease our DigiScopes to our customers and retain title to the device. We generate revenues through an initial installation fee, ongoing rental fees and per patient examination fees. As such, we are responsible for all the costs of DigiScopes placed with our customers and a significant portion of our recovery of these costs takes place over time as we collect rental and per patient fees. If our customers fail to utilize or under-utilize the DigiScopes, we may not be able to recover all of our production costs and our cash flow and potential profitability will be negatively affected. We may not be able to accurately predict the size of the market for our products. We may not be able to accurately predict the size of the market for our products. Neuropathies traditionally have been diagnosed by an NCS/nEMG procedure, performed by a neurologist or physician in a related specialty. We estimate that there are approximately 2.0 million traditional NCS/nEMG procedures performed each year in the United States. However, we anticipate that the advantages and increased availability of point-of-service nerve conduction product offerings could significantly increase the number of nerve conduction studies performed if satisfactory third-party reimbursement is available. Based on our analysis of current data, we estimate that the potential market size for point-of-service nerve conduction product offerings such as the NC-stat System in the diabetes, low back pain and CTS markets in the aggregate could be greater than 9.5 million annual patient tests. This represents a significant increase in the size of the market for nerve conduction studies and is based upon a number of assumptions and estimates, which themselves may not be accurate. For example, we have assumed that all initial office visits for low back pain may represent an opportunity for use of the NC-stat System, and we have estimated that an annual testing rate of 50% for all individuals diagnosed with diabetes represents the potential addressable market in diabetes. We estimate that the size of the market for a point-of-service product for the detection of diabetic retinopathy could be nearly $700 million. There are estimated to be 21 million people in the United States with diabetes and it is estimated that 15 million have actually been diagnosed with diabetes. Using an eye examination fee of $45 per patient, this represents a potential market size of nearly $700 million. Market size is difficult to predict, and we cannot assure you that our assumptions or estimates will prove to be correct. The industry and market data in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, on which we have based our assumptions and estimates of future market size, may be inaccurate or incomplete, and we have not independently verified those data. If our estimates of the sizes of the markets for our products is incorrect, our potential revenue growth may be limited. 31 If we are unable to successfully sell our products to primary care, specialist physicians and other healthcare providers, our ability to increase our revenues will be limited. We are focusing our sales and marketing efforts for the NC-stat System on primary care and specialist physicians and the DigiScope on primary care physicians, endocrinologists and optometrists. As these physicians and other healthcare providers traditionally have not been targeted by companies selling equipment used to perform nerve conduction studies or eye scans, we may face difficulties in selling our products to them. Particularly, we may be unable to convince these physicians that our products provide effective alternatives or useful supplements to existing testing methods. In addition, these physicians may be reluctant to make the capital investment required to purchase the NC-stat System or use the DigiScope and alter their existing practices. If we are unable to successfully sell our products to primary care and specialist physicians, our ability to increase our revenues will be severely limited. We are dependent on several single source manufacturers to produce the NC-stat System and the DigiScope and any changes in the relationships with these manufacturers could prevent us from delivering products to our customers in a timely manner and may adversely impact our future revenues or costs. We rely on two third-party manufacturers to manufacture all of the components of the NC-stat System and one third-party manufacturer to produce all of the components of the DigiScope. In the event that our manufacturers cease to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products in a timely manner and on terms acceptable to us, we would be forced to locate alternate manufacturers. Additionally, if our manufacturers experience a failure in their production process, are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of the components necessary to manufacture our products or otherwise fail to meet our quality requirements, we may be forced to delay the manufacture and sale of our products or locate an alternative manufacturer. We may be unable to locate suitable alternative manufacturers for our products, particularly our NC-stat biosensors, for which the manufacturing process is relatively specialized, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We have entered into an exclusive manufacturing and supply agreements with Parlex for the manufacture of the NC-stat biosensors, and Sunburst for the manufacture of our NC-stat monitors and docking stations. TopZone manufactures DigiScopes on a purchase order basis, rather than pursuant to a long-term contract. TopZone contracts with Xintian Fine Optical Instrument Corporation, or Xintian, in Guiyang, China for the optical head of the DigiScope, which is the most complex and important sub-component of the DigiScope. If Xintian were to fail to provide optical heads for the DigiScope production, we would be required to find alternative suppliers of optical heads. Since most of the components are standard off the shelf optical materials, we believe we could find alternative suppliers, but we could experience a temporary reduction in supply and an increase in cost for the DigiScope. In addition, we rely on TopZone to provide certain hardware and software development services. The loss of these services would likely delay and increase the cost of our research and development efforts. In addition, because TopZone is organized and operates in China, we will be subject to business risks associated with foreign operations, including: •failure to fulfill Chinese regulatory requirements to manufacture DigiScopes or other future products; •adapting to the differing business practices and laws in China; •limited protection for intellectual property rights in China; •costs of enforcing contractual obligations in China; •political instability and unexpected changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; •currency exchange rate fluctuations; and •potentially adverse tax consequences. 32 We do occasionally experience transient inventory shortages on new products during the initial production ramp-up phase. If any of the changes in our relationships with these manufacturers as described above occurs, our ability to supply our customers will be severely limited until we are able to engage an alternate manufacturer or, if applicable, resolve any quality issues with our existing manufacturer. This situation could prevent us from delivering products to our customers in a timely manner, lead to decreased sales or increased costs, or harm our reputation with our customers. If our manufacturers are unable to supply us with an adequate supply of products as we expand our markets, we could lose customers, our potential future growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. In order for us to successfully expand our business within the United States and internationally, our contract manufacturers must be able to provide us with our products in substantial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, in accordance with agreed upon specifications, at acceptable cost and on a timely basis. Our potential future growth could strain the ability of our manufacturers to deliver products and obtain materials and components in sufficient quantities. Manufacturers often experience difficulties in scaling up production, including problems with production yields and quality control and assurance. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of high quality products to meet customer demand on a timely basis, we could lose customers, our growth may be limited and our business could be harmed. We currently rely entirely on sales of the products that comprise the NC-stat System to generate a substantial portion of our revenues, and any factors that negatively impact our sales of these products could significantly reduce our ability to generate revenues. We introduced the NC-stat System to the market in May 1999. We derive substantially all of our revenues from sales of the products that comprise the NC-stat System, and we expect that sales of these products will continue to constitute the majority of our sales for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, our ability to generate revenues is reliant on our ability to market and sell the products that comprise the NC-stat System, particularly the disposable biosensors, sales of which accounted for approximately 86-88% of our total revenues in each of the past three years. Our sales of these products may be negatively impacted by many factors, including: •changes in reimbursement rates or policies relating to our products by third-party payers; •decisions made by the AMA CPT Editorial Panel relating to the reimbursement of nerve conduction studies performed using the NC-stat System; •the failure of the market to accept our products; •manufacturing problems; •claims that our products infringe on patent rights or other intellectual property rights owned by other parties; •adverse regulatory or legal actions relating to our products; •competitive pricing and related factors; and •results of clinical studies relating to our products or our competitors' products. If any of these events occurs, our ability to generate revenues could be significantly reduced. The patent rights we rely upon to protect the intellectual property underlying our products may not be adequate, which could enable third parties to use our technology and would harm our ability to compete in the market. Our success will depend in part on our ability to develop or acquire commercially valuable patent rights and to protect these rights adequately. Our patent position is generally uncertain and involves 33 complex legal and factual questions. The risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents and other related rights include the following: •the pending patent applications we have filed or to which we have exclusive rights may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; •the claims of any patents that are issued may not provide meaningful protection; •we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; •other parties may challenge patents, patent claims or patent applications licensed or issued to us; and •other companies may design around technologies we have patented, licensed or developed. We also may not be able to protect our patent rights effectively in some foreign countries. For a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent protection. Our patent rights underlying our products may not be adequate, and our competitors or customers may design around our proprietary technologies or independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing on any of our patent rights. In addition, the patents licensed or issued to us may not provide a competitive advantage. If any of these events were to occur, our ability to compete in the market would be harmed. We depend on a patent licensed to us by Johns Hopkins University as well as other contractual relationships with the Wilmer Eye Institute. We possess our rights with respect to the patent underlying the DigiScope through a patent licensing agreement with Johns Hopkins University. The license agreement generally grants us exclusive rights with respect to the patent, subject to certain rights retained by Johns Hopkins University for non-profit research purposes. However, if we determine not to seek patent protection in any given country, Johns Hopkins University may seek patent protection and license any resulting patents to third parties or otherwise exploit such patents for its own exclusive benefit. Currently, we are the exclusive licensee with respect to patents issued in the United States, China, Indonesia, Australia, Israel, Hong Kong and Mexico. We have determined not to seek patent protection in Canada or the European Union, although Johns Hopkins University has agreed that nonetheless we may retain exclusive rights in those jurisdictions. Our decision not to seek patent protection in Canada and the European Union could negatively impact our ability to compete in those jurisdictions. Under the license agreement, we are required to pay Johns Hopkins University royalties ranging from three to three and one-half percent of our net collected revenues, exclusive of installation fees, on a quarterly basis. In the event that we breach the licensing agreement, including as a result of the failure to make required royalty payments to Johns Hopkins University, or the failure to exercise commercially reasonable efforts to commercialize the technology, we could lose the licensing rights to the DigiScope technology. Also, since Johns Hopkins University is an academic institution, our license agreement with it is subject to the federal Bayh-Dole Act, pursuant to which the federal government has certain limited rights to use the technology and even to require us to grant a license to one or more third parties if we are not fully developing the technology. In addition to the licensing agreement, we have also entered into an agreement with the Wilmer Eye Institute at Johns Hopkins University pursuant to which the Wilmer Eye Institute receives digital scans from physicians using the DigiScope and eye specialists employed by the Wilmer Eye Institute analyze the images. Within 24-48 hours after receipt of the images, the eye specialists provide a report to the physician who performed the eye scan indicating the results of the scan. If the Wilmer Eye Institute could not continue to perform this service to our customers in a timely manner, our ability to generate revenues from the DigiScope could be adversely impacted. 34 We also may benefit from contractual relationships with Johns Hopkins University in the area of research and development. Johns Hopkins University conducts certain research projects, funded by outside sources, involving the DigiScope. We have contractual commitments to support these research projects and if results are positive, we may benefit indirectly from the studies and the publication of the results. However, it may be necessary in the future for us to increase our research and development budget to conduct ongoing or additional research. Other rights and measures we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate, which would harm our ability to compete in the market. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, confidentiality, nondisclosure and assignment of invention agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. In particular, we have sought no patent protection for the technology and algorithms we use in our onCall Information System and the technology and algorithms we use in connection with the DigiScope. We rely on trade secrets to protect this information. While we currently require employees, consultants and other third parties to enter into confidentiality, non-disclosure or assignment of invention agreements or a combination thereof where appropriate, any of the following could still occur: •the agreements may be breached; •we may have inadequate remedies for any breach; •trade secrets and other proprietary information could be disclosed to our competitors; or •others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technologies. If, for any of the above reasons, our intellectual property is disclosed or misappropriated, it would harm our ability to protect our rights and our competitive position. We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, which could be expensive and, if we lose, could cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights, which would harm our ability to compete in the market. We rely on patents to protect a portion of our intellectual property and our competitive position. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving and, consequently, patent positions in the medical device industry are generally uncertain. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. Litigation may be necessary to: •assert claims of infringement; •enforce our patents; •protect our trade secrets or know-how; or •determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any lawsuits that we initiate could be expensive, take significant time and divert management's attention from other business concerns. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, our ability to compete in the market or our reputation. 35 Claims that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of others could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and increase our costs. Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the medical device industry. We expect that our products could be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors grows and the functionality of products and technology in different industry segments overlap. Third parties may currently have, or may eventually be issued, patents on which our products or technologies may infringe. Any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us. Any litigation regardless of its impact would likely result in the expenditure of significant financial resources and the diversion of management's time and resources. In addition, litigation in which we are accused of infringement may cause negative publicity, adversely impact prospective customers, cause product shipment delays or require us to develop non-infringing technology, make substantial payments to third parties, or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If a successful claim of infringement were made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our revenues may decrease substantially and we could be exposed to significant liability. We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, which could restrict the sales and marketing of the NC-stat System and could cause us to incur significant costs. We sell medical devices that are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA for manufacturing, labeling, sale, promotion, distribution and shipping. Before a new medical device, or a new use of or claim for an existing product, can be marketed in the United States, it must first receive 510(k) clearance, grant of a de novo classification or pre-marketing approval from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. Medical devices may be marketed only for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. We may also be required to obtain a new 510(k) clearance or de novo classification or PMA for significant post-market modifications to our products including changes to the intended use. Each of these processes can be expensive and lengthy. The FDA's process for granting 510(k) clearance usually takes approximately three months, but it can be significantly longer. The process for obtaining de novo classification involves a level of scrutiny similar to the 510(k) clearance process, but may require more data. The process for obtaining PMA is much more costly and uncertain and it generally takes from one to three years, or longer, from the time the application is filed with the FDA. Our clearances can be rescinded if safety or effectiveness problems develop. Further, we may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals for new products or for modifications to, or additional indications for, our existing products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearances or approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our revenue and future profitability. We have made modifications to our devices in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees, and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified devices. If any of these events occur or if the FDA takes other administrative or judicial actions, we may not be able to provide our customers with the quantity of products they require on a timely basis, our reputation could be harmed, and we could lose customers and suffer reduced revenues and increased costs. In particular, our business could be adversely impacted in the event that we do not obtain 510(k) clearance for the ADVANCE System or the portions of the onCall Information System that are the subject of our 510(k) filing in the fourth quarter of 2006. Because the portions of the onCall Information System under review are currently in use, if the FDA does not clear them, we may be required to modify or remove the portions of the onCall Information System that are under review. Any such modifications could make the NC-stat System more difficult to use by physicians, which could adversely impact our ability to generate revenues from 36 the NC-stat System, or more expensive for us to operate. Either of these could have a material adverse impact on our business. We also are subject to numerous post-marketing regulatory requirements, including quality system regulations, which relate to the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation and servicing of our products, labeling regulations, medical device reporting regulations and correction and removal reporting regulations. Our failure or the failure by any manufacturer of our products to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: •warning letters, fines, injunctions, product seizures, consent decrees and civil penalties; •requiring repair, replacement, refunds, notifications or recall of our products; •imposing operating restrictions, suspension or shutdown of production; •refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to existing products; •rescinding 510(k) clearances or withdrawing PMAs that have already been granted; and •criminal prosecution. If any of these events were to occur, they could harm our reputation, our ability to generate revenues and our profitability. Also, from time to time, legislation is introduced into Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the approval, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. If we or the manufacturers of our products fail to comply with the FDA's quality system regulations, the manufacturing and distribution of our products could be interrupted, and our product sales and operating results could suffer. We and our contract manufacturers are required to comply with the FDA's quality system regulations, which is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our devices. The FDA enforces its quality system regulations through periodic inspections. We cannot assure you that our facilities or the facilities of the manufacturers of our products would pass any future quality system inspection. If our or any of the facilities of the manufacturers of our products fail a quality system inspection, the manufacturing or distribution of our products could be interrupted and our operations disrupted. Failure to take adequate and timely corrective action in response to an adverse quality system inspection could result in a suspension or shutdown of our packaging and labeling operations and the operations of the manufacturers of our products or a recall of our products, or other administrative or judicial sanctions. If any of these events occurs, we may not be able to provide our customers with the quantity of products they require on a timely basis, our reputation could be harmed, and we could lose customers and suffer reduced revenues and increased costs. 37 Our products may be subject to recalls even after receiving FDA clearance or approval, which would harm our reputation, business and financial results. We are subject to the medical device reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or have malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to occur. We are also subject to the correction and removal reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA any field corrections and device recalls or removals that we undertake to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FDCA caused by the device which may present a risk to health. In addition, the FDA and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products if there is a reasonable probability that the products would cause serious adverse health consequences or death. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of manufacturing defects, labeling deficiencies, packaging defects or other failures to comply with applicable regulations. Any recall would divert management attention and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers. A recall involving the NC-stat System would be particularly harmful to our business and financial results because the products that comprise the NC-stat System currently produce substantially all of our revenues. We are subject to federal and state laws prohibiting "kickbacks" and false or fraudulent claims, which, if violated, could subject us to substantial penalties. Additionally, any challenge to or investigation into our practices under these laws could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business. A federal law commonly known as the Medicare/Medicaid anti-kickback law, and several similar state laws, prohibit any remuneration that is intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. These laws constrain a medical device company's sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of business relationships and financial arrangements, including sales programs we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of medical devices. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. From time to time, we may provide coding and billing information as product support to purchasers of our products. Anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance, which can be quite substantial including exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. In the event that we are found to have violated these laws or determine to settle a claim that we have done so, our business may be materially adversely affected as a result of any payments required to be made, restrictions on our future operations or actions required to be taken, damage to our business reputation or adverse publicity in connection with such a finding or settlement or other adverse effects relating thereto. Additionally, even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. In the second quarter of 2006, we received a subpoena from the Office of Inspector General, or OIG, of the Department of Health and Human Services requesting documents from us in connection with an investigation of potential violations of the federal anti-kickback statute and False Claims Act. In addition, on June 21, 2007, we received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts requesting documents from us in connection with an investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ. We understand that the DOJ is investigating various aspects of our practices relating to the NC-stat System, including sales and marketing practices. We are cooperating with both investigations. During 2007, we formed a Special Committee of our Board of Directors to provide oversight of an ongoing independent review of our sales and marketing practices and of our continuing cooperation with the DOJ and OIG investigations. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome 38 of these investigations. We are unable to determine when these matters will be resolved, whether any additional areas of inquiry will be opened, or any outcome of this matter. Any negative findings in this matter could result in fines, penalties, or program exclusions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may also incur significant costs in responding to, and defending our company in these investigations, which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are found to have violated laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business. There are a number of federal and state laws protecting the confidentiality of individually identifiable patient health information, including patient records, and restricting the use and disclosure of that protected information. In particular, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services promulgated patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. These privacy rules protect medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting of their own health information and limiting most use and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose. Although we do not believe that we are subject to the HIPAA rules, the exact scope of these rules has not been clearly established. If we are found to be in violation of the privacy rules under HIPAA, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business. The use of our products could result in product liability claims that could be expensive, damage our reputation and harm our business. Our business exposes us to an inherent risk of potential product liability claims related to the manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical devices. The medical device industry historically has been litigious, and we face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of our products were to cause or contribute to injury or death. In particular, the NC-stat System may be susceptible to claims of injury because it involves the electric stimulation of a patient's nerves. Additionally, because the DigiScope tests for diabetic retinopathy, which is a condition that can lead to loss of vision or blindness if untreated, we could be subject to claims of injury relating to any actual or claimed inadequacy, error or malfunction of the DigiScope in testing for this condition or the Wilmer-EyeTel Reading Center in reading the results of the test performed by the DigiScope and communicating them to the physician. Although we maintain product liability insurance for our products and other commercial insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. As sales and use of our products increase, we may be unable to maintain sufficient product liability or other commercial insurance on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs, and this insurance may not provide us with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. A successful claim brought against us in excess of, or outside of, our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in substantial costs to us, a substantial diversion of management attention and adverse publicity. A product liability claim could also harm our reputation and result in a decline in revenues and an increase in expenses. Our products are complex in design, and defects may not be discovered prior to shipment to customers, which could result in warranty obligations or product liability or other claims, reducing our revenues and increasing our costs and liabilities. We depend upon third parties for the manufacture of our products. Our products, particularly our NC-stat biosensors, require a significant degree of technical expertise to produce. If these 39 manufacturers fail to produce our products to specification, or if the manufacturers use defective materials or workmanship in the manufacturing process, the reliability and performance of our products will be compromised. If our products contain defects that cannot be repaired quickly, easily and inexpensively, we may experience: •loss of customer orders and delay in order fulfillment; •damage to our brand reputation; •increased cost of our warranty program due to product repair or replacement; •inability to attract new customers; •diversion of resources from our manufacturing and research and development departments into our service department; and •legal action. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing could harm our reputation and materially reduce our revenues and increase our costs and liabilities. If we lose any of our officers or key employees, our management and technical expertise could be weakened significantly. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our officers, including Shai N. Gozani, M.D., Ph.D., our founder and President and Chief Executive Officer; Gary L. Gregory, our Chief Operating Officer; Guy Daniello, our Senior Vice President of Information Technology; Michael Williams, Ph.D., our Senior Vice President of Engineering; W. Bradford Smith, our Chief Financial Officer; and our other key employees. We maintain a $5.0 million key person life insurance policy on Dr. Gozani, for which the Company is the beneficiary, but do not maintain key person life insurance policies covering any of our other employees. The loss of any of our officers or key employees could weaken our management and technical expertise significantly and harm our business. If we are unable to recruit, hire and retain skilled and experienced personnel, our ability to manage and expand our business will be harmed, which would impair our future revenues and profitability. We are a small company with only 143 employees as of December 31, 2007, and our ability to retain our skilled labor force and our success in attracting and hiring new skilled employees will be a critical factor in determining our future performance. We may not be able to meet our future hiring needs or retain existing personnel, particularly given the challenges our business has recently faced. We will face challenges and risks in hiring, training, managing and retaining engineering and sales and marketing employees, as well as independent regional sales agencies and sales representatives, most of whom are geographically dispersed and must be trained in the use and benefits of our products. Failure to attract and retain personnel, particularly technical and sales and marketing personnel, would materially harm our ability to compete effectively and grow our business. If we do not effectively manage our future potential growth, our business resources may become strained, we may not be able to deliver our products in a timely manner and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Future potential growth of our business may provide challenges to our organization and may strain our management and operations. We may misjudge the amount of time or resources that will be required to effectively manage any anticipated or unanticipated growth in our business or we may not be able to attract, hire and retain sufficient personnel to meet our needs. If we cannot scale our 40 business appropriately, maintain control over expenses or otherwise adapt to anticipated and unanticipated growth, our business resources may become strained, we may not be able to deliver our products in a timely manner and our results of operations may be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully expand, develop and retain our sales force, our revenues may decline, our future revenue growth may be limited and our expenses may increase. As of December 31, 2007, we employed approximately 50 regional sales managers, five regional sales directors and a national sales director. We are highly dependent on our regional sales managers to generate our revenues. Our ability to build and develop a strong sales force will be affected by a number of factors, including: •our ability to attract, integrate and motivate sales personnel; •our ability to effectively train our sales force; •the ability of our sales force to sell an increased number of products; •the length of time it takes new sales personnel to become productive; •the competition we face from other companies in hiring and retaining sales personnel; •our ability to effectively manage a multi-location sales organization; •our ability to enter into agreements with prospective members of our sales force on commercially reasonable terms; and •our ability to get our independent sales agencies, who may sell products of multiple companies, to commit the necessary resources to effectively market and sell our products. If we are unable to successfully build, develop and retain a strong sales force, our revenues may decline, our revenue growth may be limited and our expenses may increase. Failure to develop or enter into relationships to sell products other than our existing products or enhance our existing products could have an adverse effect on our business prospects. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the majority of our revenues were derived from selling the NC-stat System. Our future business and financial success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to introduce or sell new products and upgraded products into the marketplace. Developing new products and upgrades to existing and future products imposes burdens on our research and development department and our management. This process is costly, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop new products or enhance the NC-stat System or any of our other current or future products. We also may not be able to enter into relationships with other companies to sell additional products. In addition, as we develop the market for our products, future competitors may develop desirable product features earlier than we do, which could make our competitors' products less expensive or more effective than our products and could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. If our product development efforts are unsuccessful, we will have incurred significant costs without recognizing the expected benefits and our business prospects may suffer. We currently compete, and may in the future need to compete, against other medical device companies with potentially greater resources, more established distribution channels and other competitive advantages, and the success of these competitors may harm our ability to generate revenues. We currently do, and in the future may need to, compete directly and indirectly with a number of other companies that enjoy significant competitive advantages over us. Currently, in the point-of-service market, we indirectly compete with companies that sell traditional NCS/nEMG equipment. In this market, these companies are indirect competitors because the equipment they sell traditionally has 41 been used by neurologists, who rely upon and seek to obtain referrals from primary care and specialist physicians to perform the same types of tests that may be performed by primary care and specialist physicians using the NC-stat System. Additionally, in selling the NC-stat System to neurologists, which is not a market we historically have focused on, we compete directly with the companies that sell traditional NCS/nEMG equipment. There are a number of companies that sell traditional NCS/nEMG equipment including Cardinal Healthcare, having acquired Viasys Healthcare Inc. in 2007, Cadwell Laboratories, Inc. and Natus, having acquired Xltec, Inc. in 2007. Additionally, we are aware of one company, Neumed, Inc., that markets a nerve conduction study system to the point-of-service market. Of these companies, Cardinal Healthcare, in particular, enjoys significant competitive advantages, including: •greater resources for product development, sales and marketing; •more established distribution networks; •greater name recognition; •more established relationships with health care professionals, customers and third-party payers; and •additional lines of products and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer discounts or incentives. As we develop the market for point-of-service nerve conduction studies, we may be faced with competition from these companies or others that decide and are able to enter this market. Some or all of our future competitors in the point-of-service market may enjoy competitive advantages such as those described above. If we are unable to compete effectively against existing and future competitors, our sales will decline and our business will be harmed. With respect to the DigiScope, our principal competitor in the primary diabetes care market is Veraxa Health, Inc., an affiliate of the Joslin Diabetes Center, and our principal competitors in the optometry market are Carl Zeiss, Inc., Topcon America Corporation, Kowa. Some or all of these existing competitors, as well as, future competitors may enjoy advantages, such as those described above relating to the nerve conduction market. If we are unable to compete effectively against existing and future competitors, our ability to grow our DigiScope revenues could be adversely impacted and our business could be harmed. We are dependent upon the computer and communications infrastructure employed and utilized by our onCall Information System and the Wilmer EyeTel Reading Center, and any failures or disruptions in this infrastructure could impact our revenues and profit margins or harm our reputation. We are dependent upon the computer and communications infrastructure employed and utilized by our onCall Information System and our DigiScopes. Our computer and communications infrastructure consists of standard hardware, off-the-shelf system software components, database servers, proprietary application servers, a modem bank and desktop applications. Our future success in selling the NC-stat System and the DigiScopes will depend, in part, upon the maintenance and growth of this infrastructure. Any failures or outages of this infrastructure as a result of a computer virus, intentional disruption of our systems by a third-party, manufacturing failure, telephone system failure, fire, storm, flood, power loss or other similar events, could prevent or delay the operation of our onCall Information System or the Wilmer EyeTel Reading Center, which could result in increased costs to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns and harm our reputation with our customers. In addition, if our infrastructure fails to accommodate growth in customer transactions, customer satisfaction could be impaired, we could lose customers, our ability to add customers could be impaired or our costs could be increased, any of which would harm our business. 42 If future clinical studies or other articles are published, or physician associations or other organizations announce positions, that are unfavorable to our products, our sales efforts and revenues may be negatively affected. Future clinical studies or other articles regarding our existing products or any competing products may be published that either support a claim, or are perceived to support a claim, that a competitor's product is more accurate or effective than our products or that our products are not as accurate or effective as we claim or previous clinical studies have concluded. Additionally, physician associations or other organizations that may be viewed as authoritative or have an economic interest in nerve conduction studies and in related electrodiagnostic procedures or other procedures that may be performed using our products could endorse products or methods that compete with our products or otherwise announce positions that are unfavorable to our products. We have experienced this with the professional societies representing the neurologist community. Any of these events may negatively affect our sales efforts and result in decreased revenues. Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future, and these funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents together with our short-term investments and the cash to be generated from expected product sales will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, we may seek additional funds from public and private stock offerings, borrowings under credit lines or other sources. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: •the revenues generated by sales of our products; •the costs associated with our sales and marketing efforts; •the expenses we incur in manufacturing and selling our products; •the costs of developing new products or technologies and enhancements to existing products; •the cost of obtaining and maintaining FDA approval or clearance of our products and products in development; •the costs associated with any expansion; •the costs of professional services associated with the government investigations to which we are subject; •the costs associated with capital expenditures, including the purchase of DigiScopes; and •the number and timing of any acquisitions or other strategic transactions. As a result of these factors, we may need to raise additional funds, and these funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. If any of these events occurs, our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals would be adversely affected. 43 If we choose to acquire or invest in new businesses, products or technologies, instead of developing them ourselves, these acquisitions or investments could disrupt our business and could result in the use of significant amounts of equity, cash or a combination of both. From time to time we may seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies, instead of developing them ourselves. On December 26, 2007, for example, we acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of EyeTel and in November 2007 we made an investment in Cyberkinetics and in 2008 entered into a joint venture with them. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: •the inability to complete the acquisition or investment; •disruption of our ongoing businesses and diversion of management attention; •difficulties in integrating the acquired entities, products or technologies; •difficulties in operating the acquired business profitably; •the inability to achieve anticipated synergies, cost savings or growth; •potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired business; •difficulties in transitioning and maintaining key customer, distributor and supplier relationships; •risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and •unanticipated costs. In addition, any future acquisitions or investments may result in one or more of the following: •issuances of dilutive equity securities, which may be sold at a discount to market price; •the use of significant amounts of cash; •the incurrence of debt; •the assumption of significant liabilities; •increased operating costs or reduced earnings; •financing obtained on unfavorable terms; •large one-time expenses; and •the creation of certain intangible assets, including goodwill, the write-down of which may result in significant charges to earnings. Any of these factors could materially harm our stock price, our business or our operating results. If we expand, or attempt to expand, into foreign markets, we will be affected by new business risks that may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. We had our initial revenues in the United Kingdom in the third quarter of 2007, representing our initial launch in Europe. If we continue to expand, or attempt to expand, into foreign markets, we will be subject to new business risks, including: •failure to fulfill foreign regulatory requirements to market our products; •availability of, and changes in, reimbursement within prevailing foreign health care payment systems; •adapting to the differing business practices and laws in foreign countries; 44 •difficulties in managing foreign relationships and operations, including any relationships that we establish with foreign distributors or sales or marketing agents; •limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; •difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; •costs of enforcing contractual obligations in foreign jurisdictions; •recessions in economies outside of the United States; •political instability and unexpected changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; •currency exchange rate fluctuations; and •potentially adverse tax consequences. If we are successful in introducing our products into foreign markets, we will be affected by these additional business risks, which may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, expansion into foreign markets imposes additional burdens on our executive and administrative personnel, research and sales departments, and general managerial resources. Our efforts to introduce our products into foreign markets may not be successful, in which case we may have expended significant resources without realizing the expected benefit. Ultimately, the investment required for expansion into foreign markets could exceed the revenues generated from this expansion. Our operating results may fluctuate due to various factors and, as a result, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations will not necessarily be meaningful. Factors relating to our business make our future operating results uncertain and may cause them to fluctuate from period to period. These factors include: •changes in the availability of third-party reimbursement in the United States or other countries; •the timing of new product announcements and introductions by us or our competitors; •market acceptance of new or enhanced versions of our products; •changes in manufacturing costs or other expenses; •competitive pricing pressures; •the gain or loss of significant distribution outlets or customers; •increased research and development expenses; •the timing of any future acquisitions; or •general economic conditions. Because our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, it may be difficult for us or our investors to predict our future performance by viewing our historical operating results. 45 Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law, and those anti-takeover provisions adopted by the Company in 2007, may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions: •authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock; •provide for a classified board of directors, with each director serving a staggered three-year term; •prohibit our stockholders from filling board vacancies, calling special stockholder meetings, or taking action by written consent; •provide for the removal of a director only with cause and by the affirmative vote of the holders of 75% or more of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of our directors; and •require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. We have adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or could discourage a third party from acquiring, the Company or a large block of our common stock. A third party that acquires 15% or more of our common stock (an "acquiring person") could suffer substantial dilution of its ownership interest under the terms of the Shareholder Rights Plan through the issuance of common stock to all shareholders other than the acquiring person. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility may preclude us from paying any dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, 180 days or more before December 31, 2007 that remain unresolved. 46 