Risk Factors." Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of our assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary from those projected in these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references to "we", "us", the "Company", or "NeuroMetrix" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to NeuroMetrix, Inc. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Our Business-An Overview We are a science-based health care company transforming patient care through neurotechnology. We develop and market innovative products for the detection, diagnosis, and monitoring of peripheral nerve and spinal cord disorders, such as those associated with diabetes, carpal tunnel syndrome, lumbosacral disc disease and spinal stenosis. Historically, our general focus has been primarily on the assessment of neuropathies. Neuropathies affect the peripheral nerves and parts of the spine and are frequently caused by or associated with carpal tunnel syndrome, diabetes, sciatica, and other clinical disorders. We market systems for the performance of nerve conduction studies and needle electromyography procedures. We recently shifted our primary focus to diabetes, specifically the detection and monitoring of diabetic neuropathy, which is a common complication of the disease. We view diabetes as representing the largest and fastest growing opportunity for our proprietary technology as countries around the world struggle to cope with an epidemic of Type II diabetes. Neuropathy is a common and serious complication of the disease that may lead to foot ulcers and limb amputation. We have over a decade of experience in neuropathy detection and believe we are uniquely positioned to address the unmet 3 Table of Contents need for a rapid, cost-effective, objective test for diabetic neuropathy. We anticipate a mid-2011 launch of NC-stat SL, which is a modified version of our NC-stat device designed specifically for assessment of diabetic neuropathy at the point-of-care. In support of our efforts, we have assembled a scientific advisory board of international experts. We currently market a medical device cleared by the FDA which is used for the assessment of neuropathies. Our ADVANCE™ NCS/EMG System, or the ADVANCE System, is a comprehensive platform for the performance of traditional nerve conduction studies and invasive electromyography procedures. We focus our sales efforts for the ADVANCE System on physician offices and clinics. Our ADVANCE System is comprised of: (1) various types of electrodes and needles, (2) our ADVANCE device and related modules, and (3) a communication hub that enables the physician's office to network their device to our servers for data archiving, report generation, and other network services. We sold a predecessor device, the NC-stat System, to a broad group of physicians from its initial market launch in May 1999 through September 2010. Our NC-stat System is a point-of-care device for the performance of nerve conduction studies. We do not intend to support the NC-stat System beyond 2011 and are transitioning our NC-stat customers to the ADVANCE System. Our neurodiagnostic equipment is used in over 3,800 physicians' offices, clinics, and hospitals. Over 1.5 million patient studies have been performed with our neurodiagnostic devices since 1999. Business Developments In January 2011, we announced a shift to diabetes care as our primary business focus but we will also continue to support our neurodiagnostic products. Within neurodiagnostics, a key objective is maintaining our high standard of product support for the accounts in our active installed base. Our general purpose NC-stat device, which has been on the market since 1999, will not be supported beyond 2011. We intend to transition all of these accounts to the ADVANCE System, which currently represents over 40% of tests performed using our technology. We believe that a variable cost sales channel is preferable during this transition period. As a result, we restructured our organization in January 2011 by eliminating our direct sales force and intend to manage new account acquisition through third party distribution. Our international business, which employs the ADVANCE System and corresponding technology and is transacted through a network of independent distributors, was unaffected by this restructuring. Although Medicare now provides coverage for nerve testing using our proprietary pre-configured electrodes under CPT Code 95905, most commercial insurance companies have not yet revised their coverage policies to include this procedure. We believe there are many evidence-based studies documenting the accuracy and clinical utility of the procedure, particularly for carpal tunnel syndrome. While we are working towards broader insurance coverage, uncertain physician economics have made new account acquisition challenging, and therefore the cost of a direct sales force cannot be justified. For this reason, we have 1) prioritized our large installed base of active accounts, 2) restructured our organization to support active accounts, and 3) shifted to third-party distribution for new account acquisition. In 2011, our goal is to manage neurodiagnostics to achieve a positive net cash contribution to the Company. The restructuring instituted in January 2011 involved a 27% reduction in employee positions, realignment of responsibilities, and a charge of approximately $2.3 million related to severance and inventory. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, $2.0 million of the charge was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2010, and the remaining $0.3 million will be recorded in the first quarter of 2011. 4 Table of Contents Overall Outlook We believe that today's health care environment is characterized by uncertainty. Health care providers face a range of challenges including changes in reimbursement, declining patient visits, and uncertainty arising from national health care reform. These factors have resulted in downward pressure on our revenues and margins for our neurodiagnostic products. In spite of this environment, we have been encouraged by the potential application of our technology in the field of diabetes care. The diabetes epidemic, particularly related to Type II diabetes, is a worldwide concern, as highlighted by the following 2007 statistics (from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention): •In the United States, 24 million people have diabetes, 57 million are pre-diabetic, and there are 1.6 million new cases of diabetes each year. •Worldwide, there are at least 200 million diabetics, and that number is projected to reach 300 million by 2025. •DPN is a common complication of diabetes affecting 60% to 70% of diabetics. Nerve disease can lead to foot ulcers and amputations, increased risk of falling, reduction in mobility, and substantial pain. We believe that there is currently no objective and standardized test for DPN widely available at the point-of-care. The American Diabetes Association, or ADA, and other organizations recommend at least annual evaluation of all people with diabetes for diabetic neuropathy. Due to cost and availability, this screen is typically performed with a simple (5.07/10g) monofilament. This subjective method identifies late stage neuropathy where intervention is generally limited to foot care. Experts in the field assert that there is a large unmet need for a practical, objective, and sensitive test for diabetic neuropathy that can be widely deployed in the regular care of all people with diabetes. We believe we are uniquely positioned to address this unmet need. Specifically, we are developing "NC-stat SL". This device measures nerve conduction in the sural nerve, which is a nerve located in the lower leg. Nerve conduction studies are now widely considered the gold standard test for diabetic neuropathy and have even become primary endpoints in Phase III clinical trials for neuropathy therapeutics. Nerve conduction abnormalities in the sural nerve, in particular, are considered the earliest and most informative indication of diabetic neuropathy. Our NC-stat SL device is easy to learn and operate. A test only takes about 30 seconds to perform. We have also focused a great deal of effort on making the test uniquely cost effective and have made considerable progress. We do not expect third-party reimbursement initially, but given the low costs and tremendous potential benefits of this test to people with diabetes and to physicians caring for them, we believe that an out-of-pocket payment model will develop. Concurrently, we intend to initiate the type of clinical studies that will lead to broad third party coverage. We do not expect this coverage to develop for several years and cannot be sure of our success in obtaining such coverage. Our development efforts are being aided by an advisory board of international experts in diabetic neuropathy who agree that this device has the potential to profoundly improve the management of diabetic neuropathy. Several of these thought leaders are authors of widely followed clinical guidelines, such as those from the American Diabetes Association (ADA). Our development pathway has been relatively straightforward because NC-stat SL is a modification of our well established general purpose NC-stat device and has the same clinical indications with respect to diabetic neuropathy. The NC-stat System has been on the market since 1999. Over 1.5 million patient studies have been performed with this technology, including over 600,000 sural nerve tests. It has been the subject of many published studies, including several studies specifically addressing the accuracy and clinical utility of the device in assessment of diabetic neuropathy. 5 Table of Contents Our NC-stat SL product development has been moving rapidly. From product concept in the second quarter of 2010, we have taken the device through product feasibility and now have working prototypes. As product development continues, we are shifting our focus to market strategy and distribution to U.S. endocrinologists followed by primary care physicians. We believe these markets represent our largest and best opportunities. They are also markets in which we have relevant experience from our neurodiagnostic business. In December 2010, we strengthened our Board of Directors with the appointment of Nancy Katz, a recognized marketing innovator in diabetes. We also expect to add diabetes related sales and marketing expertise to our management team over the next several quarters. Our goal is to launch NC-stat SL at the June 2011 American Diabetes Association meeting followed by direct customer rollout in the third quarter of 2011. Neuropathies Disorders of the nerves are broadly described by the term neuropathies. There are two basic types of neuropathies, those that are focal or localized in nature, and those that are systemic. Focal neuropathies are typically caused by a compression of one or more specific nerves. Systemic neuropathies are typically caused by a metabolic disturbance that results in widespread damage to nerves throughout the body. The most common clinical conditions associated with neuropathies include: •Diabetes. Diabetes is a disease in which the body either does not produce sufficient quantities of insulin or does not properly use insulin. Insulin is a hormone that is needed to convert sugar, starches, and other food into energy needed for daily body function. Diabetes often results in a high level of glucose in the blood, called hyperglycemia. Chronic hyperglycemia is associated with complications of diabetes including nerve, eye, and kidney disease. The most common form of diabetes-related nerve disease is DPN. The symptoms of DPN include impaired sensation or pain in the feet and hands. The ADA estimates that 60% to 70% of people with diabetes are affected by DPN, although a majority of these individuals are unaware of their nerve disease because they have no symptoms. DPN, if left undiagnosed and unmanaged, can result in the development of lower extremity ulcers and, in severe cases, amputation. It is estimated by the ADA that over 75% of all foot amputations are in patients with DPN. Other neuropathies may be present in as many as 30% of patients with diabetes, including carpal tunnel syndrome, or CTS, radiculopathy, and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, or CIDP. •Low back pain. Low back pain can have many causes. When low back pain has a neurological source, it is often focal in nature and associated with pain that radiates from the lower back region into the leg, called sciatica. In some cases, the patient may also experience loss of sensation and weakness in the lower leg. In advanced cases, these symptoms can become disabling. The symptoms result from pressure on the nerve roots, the precursors of the nerve, as they exit the spine. The source of the pressure is usually part of an intervertebral disc that is displaced from its normal location between the vertebral bodies. These disorders are often called herniated or ruptured discs. •Carpal Tunnel Syndrome. CTS is caused by swelling of the tendons that traverse the wrist alongside the median nerve. The swollen tendons compress the median nerve, resulting in damage to the nerve that leads to numbness in the first three fingers of the hand, weakness in the thumb, and occasionally wrist and hand pain. CTS is the most common focal neuropathy. •Other medical conditions associated with neuropathies. Common chronic disorders such as obesity, rheumatoid arthritis, and spinal stenosis, or narrowing of the spinal canal, are commonly associated with neuropathies. In these complicated cases, it is particularly important for the physician to confirm or exclude neuropathies in order to develop effective treatment programs. 6 Table of Contents •Nerve damage caused by chemotherapy. A number of widely used chemotherapeutic agents are toxic to nerves. Unfortunately, by the time patients report symptoms, significant nerve damage has often already occurred. NeuroMetrix Marketed Products for the Assessment of Neuropathies ADVANCE NCS/EMG System The ADVANCE System is a comprehensive platform for the performance of traditional nerve conduction studies and invasive electromyography procedures. The ADVANCE System is comprised of: (1) various types of electrodes and needles, (2) the ADVANCE device and related modules, and (3) a communication hub that enables the physician's office to network their device to their personal computers and our servers for data archiving, report generation, and other network services. The ADVANCE System currently represents over 40% of the nerve tests performed using our technology. NC-stat System The NC-stat System is no longer marketed and is in the process of being replaced by the ADVANCE System. We do not intend to support the NC-stat System beyond 2011 and are actively working to transition our NC-stat customers to the ADVANCE System. The NC-stat System currently represents less than 60% of the nerve tests performed using our technology. The NC-stat System is comprised of: (1) single use electrodes that are placed non-invasively on the patient's body, (2) the NC-stat device and related components, and (3) the NC-stat docking station, an optional device that enables the physician to transmit data to our onCall Information System. The NC-stat System assists physicians in rapidly and accurately examining the patient in a manner that may be cost-effective for the patient and third-party payer. The onCall Information System also provides our NC-stat customers with report creation, device management, data archiving, and other services that are accessible via the web, e-mail, and facsimile. Consumables We market a variety of consumables and accessories for use with our neurodiagnostic devices. These include our nerve specific electrodes, which are single use, self-adhesive, electrode arrays that are placed on the body and connected to the neurodiagnostic device. Currently, we sell nerve specific electrodes for six nerves. The electrodes are designed to be positioned according to common anatomical landmarks with a configuration that facilitates correct placement. We also market electrodes, which are individually placed and may be used to test any nerve at distal and proximal locations, and EMG needles and various cables and other accessories for performing nerve conduction studies and needle electromyography procedures. Customers Through December 2010, we primarily marketed our products through a direct sales force. In conjunction with the shift in our business focus, we intend to market our products primarily through third party distributors to physicians, clinics, and hospitals comprised of primary care, internal medicine, orthopedic and hand surgeons, pain medicine physicians, neurologists, physical medicine and rehabilitation, or PM&R, physicians, and neurosurgeons. As of December 31, 2010, we had over 3,800 active ADVANCE and NC-stat customers. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in 2010, 2009, or 2008. 7 Table of Contents Geographic Information Substantially all of our assets, revenues, and expenses for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 were located at or derived from operations in the United States. In addition, we have had limited but growing sales through distributors in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and various other countries. For each of the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, international revenues accounted for approximately 2% of our total revenues and for the year ended December 31, 2008, accounted for less than 1% of our total revenues. Sales, Marketing, and Distribution As discussed above, through December 2010, we primarily marketed our products through a direct sales force. We intend to market our neurodiagnostic products within the United States through a combination of independent sales representatives and the telemarketing efforts of our customer service representatives. Distribution is handled directly by us. We have limited but growing sales through distributors in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and various other countries. Our success is dependent on our ability to effectively manage the efforts of our sales organization, independent sales representatives, and international distributors, as well as our customer service representatives. As of January 2011, we sell to new customers in the U.S. physician office and specialty markets through 16 distributors that utilize over 40 sales representatives. After sale support for all new and existing customers is provided by our team of field-based clinical educators. We believe that this team is positively impacting customer testing by providing high quality technical and clinical support. The customer service organization at our corporate offices provides support to customers regarding the operation of our ADVANCE and NC-stat systems and for reordering our consumable products. International sales are made through a network of distributors. Our sales organization currently has 19 field positions, including 15 clinical educators, 2 directors, a Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Neurodiagnostics, and a Vice President, Marketing. We invest significant effort in technical, clinical, and business practices training for our sales organization and independent sales representatives. We also require attendance at periodic sales and product training programs. Promotion and sales of medical devices are highly regulated not only by the FDA, but also by the Federal Trade Commission and, outside the United States, by other international bodies, and are subject to federal and state fraud and abuse enforcement activities. Manufacturing and Supply We rely on outside contractors for the manufacture and servicing of our products and their components, and we do not currently maintain alternative manufacturing sources for our ADVANCE and NC-stat devices, docking station/communication hubs, electrodes, or any other finished goods products. In outsourcing, we target companies that meet FDA, International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, and other quality standards supported by internal policies and procedures. Supplier performance is maintained and managed through a corrective action program ensuring all product requirements are met or exceeded. We believe these manufacturing relationships minimize our capital investment, provide us with manufacturing expertise, and help control costs. Following the receipt of products or product components from our third-party manufacturers, we conduct the necessary inspection, packaging, and labeling at our corporate headquarters facility. We may consider manufacturing certain products or product components internally, if and when demand or quality requirements make it appropriate to do so. We currently have no plans to manufacture any products or product components internally. 8 Table of Contents We seek to obtain products from our manufacturers in order to maintain sufficient inventory to satisfy our customer obligations and we did not experience any inventory shortages on any established products in 2010. Additionally, during 2010, we experienced a continued low rate of defects in electrodes manufactured by Parlex, as we rejected less than 1% of electrodes shipped to us by Parlex in each of 2010 and 2009, compared to 3% to 5% in 2008. This was a result of our efforts to focus Parlex on reducing the defect rate. We are continuing to work closely with Parlex to maintain and further reduce this low rate of rejection. If our third-party manufacturers are unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products that meet our specifications, we will not meet expectations for our business. Parlex has been manufacturing our nerve specific electrodes since early 1999. In August 2006, we entered into a mutually exclusive manufacturing and supply agreement with Parlex pursuant to which Parlex will manufacture and supply to us, and we will purchase from Parlex, at agreed upon prices per unit, all of our requirements of electrodes for resale in the United States. Under the agreement, Parlex has agreed not to manufacture electrodes to be used to measure nerve conduction for any other company during the term of the agreement and, in some cases, for a period of one year thereafter. Either party may terminate the agreement at any time upon not less than 18 months prior written notice. Parlex manufactures our electrodes at a facility in Massachusetts and also has the ability to perform certain manufacturing steps for our electrodes at a second site located in the United Kingdom. Sunburst EMS, Inc., or Sunburst, has been manufacturing our NC-stat devices and docking stations since November 2005. We signed a formal supply agreement with Sunburst during 2006 for the continued manufacturing and supply of our neurodiagnostic devices. Sunburst manufactures the current generation of our ADVANCE device at a facility in Massachusetts. We and our third-party manufacturers are registered with the FDA and subject to compliance with FDA quality system regulations. We are also ISO registered and undergo frequent quality system audits by European agencies. Our ADVANCE System is cleared for marketing within the United States, Canada, and the European Union. Our facility and the facility of our contract device manufacturer are subject to periodic inspections by regulatory authorities, and may undergo compliance inspections conducted by the FDA and corresponding state agencies. As a registered device manufacturer, we and our manufacturer will undergo regularly scheduled FDA quality system inspections. However, additional FDA inspections may occur if deemed necessary by the FDA. Research and Development We are currently focusing our research and development efforts on our new diabetes product NC-stat SL, as well as further enhancements to the ADVANCE System, including new electrodes and other accessories. Our research and development group consists of 17 people, including six who hold Ph.D. or M.D. degrees. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer, who holds both M.D. and Ph.D. degrees, spends significant efforts related to research and development. The research and development group has extensive experience in neurophysiology, biomedical instrumentation, signal processing, biomedical sensors, and information systems. Our research and development group works closely with our marketing group, our clinical support group (led by a board-certified neurologist), and our customers to design products that are focused on improving clinical outcomes. Research and development expenses were approximately $5.9 million, $5.6 million, and $5.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008. NC-stat SL for monitoring diabetic peripheral neuropathy Our NC-stat SL development efforts are being aided by an advisory board of international experts in diabetic neuropathy. The development pathway has been relatively straightforward because NC-stat 9 Table of Contents SL is a modification of our established general purpose NC-stat device and has the same clinical indications with respect to diabetic neuropathy. The NC-stat has been on the market since 1999. Over 1.5 million patient studies have been performed with this technology, including over 600,000 sural nerve tests. It has been the subject of many published studies, including several studies specifically addressing the accuracy and clinical utility of the device in assessment of diabetic neuropathy. Our NC-stat SL product development has been moving rapidly. From product concept in the second quarter of 2010, we have taken this through product feasibility and now have working prototypes. NM101 Within our pipeline of pharmacologic compounds for neural conduction enhancement, we are developing our lead compound, NM101, for use in chronic spinal cord injury. We plan to advance the compound through a Phase 1 clinical trial and then evaluate strategic options. We are presently performing the pre-clinical work required to file an investigational new drug application with the FDA. Andara OFS Device Our Andara Oscillating Frequency Stimulation, or OFS, device for spinal cord injury is an investigational device designed as a single use implant to enhance neurological recovery in patients with devastating loss of movement and sensation from acute spinal cord injuries. We believe, based on the results of pre-clinical development and clinical trials to date, that targeted electrical stimulation promotes the growth of nerve fibers across the damaged portion of the spinal cord. We believe that the Andara OFS device could enhance the natural process of neuroplasticity to make new connections in the spinal cord that lead to partial restoration of neurological functions such as sensation below the injury. The FDA has recently provided us with greater clarity on the clinical requirements for approval of the Andara OFS device under a Humanitarian Device Exemption, or HDE. Our next step would be to design and conduct a clinical trial targeting the same safety and efficacy endpoints as the original study but with a larger sample size. This project is currently on hold as we focus our resources on NC-stat SL for monitoring diabetic peripheral neuropathy. Competition We believe that there is currently no objective and standardized test for diabetic neuropathy widely available at the point-of-care. The ADA and other organizations recommend at least annual evaluation of all people with diabetes for diabetic neuropathy. Due to cost and availability, this screen is typically performed with a simple (5.07/10g) monofilament. This subjective method identifies late stage neuropathy where intervention is generally limited to foot care. Experts in the field have indicated that there is a large unmet need for a practical, objective, and sensitive test for diabetic neuropathy that can be widely deployed in the regular care of all people with diabetes. Monofilament (5.07/10g) is a commodity sold by a number of medical supply companies. There are a number of companies that sell neurodiagnostic devices. These companies include CareFusion Corporation, Cadwell Laboratories, Inc., and Natus Medical Incorporated. CareFusion Corporation has substantially greater financial resources than we do. CareFusion Corporation and Cadwell Laboratories, Inc. have established a reputation as having effective worldwide distribution channels for medical instruments to neurologists and PM&R physicians. 10 Table of Contents Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and other intellectual property laws, nondisclosure agreements and other measures to protect our proprietary technology, intellectual property rights, and know-how. We hold issued utility patents covering a number of important aspects of our NC-stat and ADVANCE Systems. We believe that in order to have a competitive advantage, we must develop and maintain the proprietary aspects of our technologies. We also require our employees, consultants and advisors, whom we expect to work on our products, to agree to disclose and assign to us all inventions conceived, developed using our property, or which relate to our business. Despite any measures taken to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Patents As of December 31, 2010, we had 31 issued U.S. patents, 26 issued foreign patents, and 40 pending patent applications, including 25 U.S. applications, 2 international PCT applications, and 13 foreign national applications. We have filed two provisional patent applications related to NC-stat SL. Our issued design patents begin to expire in 2015, and our issued utility patents begin to expire in 2017. In particular, seven of our issued U.S. utility patents covering important aspects of our current products will expire on the same date in 2017. Although the patent protection for material aspects of our products covered by the claims of the patents will be lost at that time, we have additional patents and patent applications directed to other novel inventions that will have patent terms extending beyond 2017. In connection with the acquisition of certain technological and intellectual property assets of Cyberkinetics Neurotechnology Systems, Inc., or Cyberkinetics, in January 2009, we also license technology relating to the Andara (OFS) technology from the Purdue Research Foundation. The medical device industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. Patent litigation can involve complex factual and legal questions, and its outcome is uncertain. Any claim relating to infringement of patents that is successfully asserted against us may require us to pay substantial damages. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Our success will also depend in part on our not infringing patents issued to others, including our competitors and potential competitors. If our products are found to infringe the patents of others, our development, manufacture, and sale of these potential products could be severely restricted or prohibited. In addition, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies. Because of the importance of our patent portfolio to our business, we may lose market share to our competitors if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights. As the number of entrants into our market increases, the possibility of third-parties alleging patent infringement claims against us grows. Although we have not received notice of any claims, and are not aware that our products infringe other parties' patents and proprietary rights, our products and methods may be covered by U.S. patents held by our competitors. In addition, our competitors may assert that future products we may market infringe their patents. A patent infringement suit brought against us may force us or any strategic partners or licensees to stop or delay developing, manufacturing, or selling potential products that are claimed to infringe a third-party's intellectual property, unless that party grants us rights to use its intellectual property. In such cases, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to commercialize our products. However, we may not be able to obtain any licenses required 11 Table of Contents under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to obtain rights to the third-party's intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize some of our potential products or may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. Trademarks We hold domestic registrations for the marks NEUROMETRIX, NC-STAT and onCall. We use a trademark for ADVANCE, ASCEND, UNIVERSAL, ANDARA, and OFS. We hold certain foreign trademark registrations for the marks NEUROMETRIX and NC-STAT. Third-Party Reimbursement We plan to launch NC-stat SL in mid-2011. Initially, we do not expect third-party reimbursement for health care providers using the system to detect and monitor diabetic neuropathy. However, given the anticipated low costs involved combined with clinical upside of this test to people with diabetes and to physicians caring for them, we believe that an out-of-pocket payment model may develop. Concurrently, we intend to initiate the type of clinical studies that will lead to broad third party coverage. We do not expect this coverage to develop for several years and cannot be sure of our eventual success in obtaining such coverage. Procedures performed with our neurodiagnostic medical devices will often be paid for by third-party payers, including government health programs, such as Medicare, and private insurance and managed care organizations. The 2011 Physicians Fee Schedule published by CMS includes a Category I CPT code or CPT 95905 for nerve conduction studies performed with pre-configured electrode arrays such as are used with our ADVANCE and NC-stat systems. We believe that physicians are generally receiving reimbursement under CPT 95905 from Medicare for medically necessary nerve conduction studies performed using pre-configured electrode arrays. We also believe that physicians are receiving reimbursement for CPT 95905 from a small number of commercial insurers. We continue to work with reimbursement experts to expand coverage for CPT 95905 and with physicians for their adoption of patient advance beneficiary notices where they believe that nerve conduction testing may not be covered by commercial insurers. Reimbursement by third-party payers is an important element of success for medical device companies. We do not foresee a significant near-term improvement in reimbursement from commercial insurers for procedures performed with our neurodiagnostic devices. In the United States, some insured individuals are receiving their medical care through managed care programs, which monitor and often require pre-approval of the services that a member will receive. Some managed care programs are paying their providers on a per capita basis, which puts the providers at financial risk for the services provided to their patients by paying these providers a predetermined payment per member per month, and consequently, may limit the willingness of these providers to use our products. We believe that the overall escalating cost of medical products and services has led to, and will continue to lead to, increased pressures on the healthcare industry to reduce the costs of products and services. We cannot assure you that third-party coverage will be available, that the amounts paid for procedures performed with our medical devices will be adequate, or that future legislation, regulation, or reimbursement policies of third-party payers will not adversely affect the demand for our products or our ability to sell these products on a profitable basis. The unavailability or inadequacy of third-party payer coverage or reimbursement could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our success in selling the ADVANCE System will be dependent upon, among other things, our customers' receiving, and our potential customers' expectation that they will receive sufficient 12 Table of Contents reimbursement from third-party payers or directly from patients for performing procedures using the ADVANCE System. FDA and Other Governmental Regulation FDA Regulation Our products are medical devices subject to extensive regulation by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as well as by other regulatory bodies in the United States and abroad. The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes on the basis of the amount of risk associated with the medical device and the controls deemed necessary to reasonably ensure their safety and effectiveness: •Class I, requiring general controls, including labeling, device listing, reporting and, for some products, adherence to good manufacturing practices through the FDA's quality system regulations and pre-market notification; •Class II, requiring general controls and special controls, which may include performance standards and post-market surveillance; and •Class III, requiring general controls and pre-market approval, or PMA, which may include post-approval conditions and post-market surveillance. Before being introduced into the market, our products must obtain market clearance or approval through the 510(k) pre-market notification process, the de novo review process or the PMA process. 510(k) Pre-Market Notification Process To obtain 510(k) clearance, we must submit a pre-market notification demonstrating that the proposed device is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed Class I or II medical device or to a Class III device marketed prior to May 28, 1976 for which the FDA has not required the submission of a PMA application. In some cases, we may be required to perform clinical trials to support a claim of substantial equivalence. If clinical trials are required, we must submit an application for an investigational device exemption, or IDE, which must be cleared by the FDA prior to the start of a clinical investigation, unless the device and clinical investigation are considered non-significant risk by the FDA or are exempt from the IDE requirements. It generally takes three months from the date of the pre-market notification submission to obtain a final 510(k) decision, but it can be significantly longer. After a medical device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires the submission of a new 510(k) clearance or could require de novo classification or PMA. The FDA allows each company to make this determination, but the FDA can review the decision. If the FDA disagrees with a company's decision not to seek FDA authorization, the FDA may require the company to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA. The FDA also can require the company to cease marketing and/or recall the medical device in question until its regulatory status is resolved. De Novo Review Process If a previously unclassified new medical device does not qualify for the 510(k) pre-market notification process because there is no predicate device to which it is substantially equivalent, and if the device may be adequately regulated through general controls or special controls, the device may be eligible for de novo classification through what is called the de novo review process. In order to use the de novo review process, a company must receive a letter from the FDA stating that, because the device has been found not substantially equivalent to a legally marketed Class I or II medical device or to a 13 Table of Contents Class III device marketed prior to May 28, 1976 for which the FDA has not required the submission of a PMA application, it has been placed into Class III. After receiving this letter, the company, within 30 days, must submit to the FDA a request for a risk based downclassification of the device from Class III to Class I or II based on the device's moderate or low risk profile which meets the definition of a Class I or Class II medical device. The FDA then has 60 days in which to decide whether to downclassify the device. If the FDA agrees that a lower classification is warranted, it will issue a new regulation describing the device type and, for a Class II device, publish a Special Controls guidance document. The Special Controls guidance document specifies the scope of the device type and the recommendations for submission of subsequent devices for the same intended use. If a product is classified as Class II through the de novo review process, then that device may serve as a predicate device for subsequent 510(k) pre-market notifications. PMA Process If a medical device does not qualify for the 510(k) pre-market notification process and is not eligible for clearance through the de novo review process, a company must submit a PMA application. The PMA requires more extensive pre-filing testing than is required in the 510(k) and is more costly, lengthy and uncertain. The FDA will decide within 45 days of receiving a PMA whether it is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review and if the PMA is complete, the FDA will notify the applicant that the PMA has been filed. The PMA process can take one to three years or longer, from the time the PMA application is filed with the FDA. The PMA process requires the company to prove that the medical device is safe and effective for its intended purpose. A PMA typically includes extensive pre-clinical and clinical trial data, and information about the device, its design, manufacture, labeling and components. Before approving a PMA, the FDA generally also performs an on-site inspection of manufacturing facilities for the product to ensure compliance with the FDA's quality system regulation, or QSR. If FDA approves the PMA, the approved indications may be more limited than those originally sought. In addition, FDA's approval order may include post-approval conditions that the FDA believes necessary to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device, including, among other things, restrictions on labeling, promotion, sale and distribution and post-market study requirements. Failure to comply with the post-approval conditions can result in adverse enforcement or administrative actions, including the withdrawal of the approval. Approval of a new PMA application or a PMA supplement may be required in the event of modifications to the device, including to its labeling, intended use or indication, or its manufacturing process that affect safety and effectiveness. Post-Approval Obligations After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements continue to apply. These include: •the FDA's QSR, which requires manufacturers, including third-party manufacturers, to follow stringent design, testing, control, documentation and other good manufacturing practice and quality assurance procedures during all aspects of the manufacturing process; •labeling regulations and FDA prohibitions against the promotion of products for uncleared or unapproved uses (known as off-label uses), as well as requirements to provide adequate information on both risks and benefits; •medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to FDA any device that may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur; 14 Table of Contents •correction and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA field corrections and device recalls or removals if undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FDCA caused by the device which may present a risk to health; •post-market surveillance regulations, which apply to Class II or III devices if the FDA has issued a post-market surveillance order and the failure of the device would be reasonably likely to have serious adverse health consequences, the device is expected to have significant use in the pediatric population, the device is intended to be implanted in the human body for more than one year, or the device is intended to be used to support or sustain life and to be used outside a user facility; •regular and for cause inspections by FDA to review a manufacturer's facilities and their compliance with applicable FDA requirements; and •the FDA's recall authority, whereby it can ask, or order, device manufacturers to recall from the market a product that is in violation of applicable laws and regulations. Humanitarian Device Exemption Process The Humanitarian Device Exemption, or HDE, provisions of the FDCA were enacted by Congress to provide an incentive for development of devices to be used in the treatment of rare diseases or conditions affecting small numbers of patients. Under the FDCA and FDA's Humanitarian Use Device, or HUD, regulations, medical devices that are intended to treat and diagnose rare diseases or conditions that affect fewer than 4,000 individuals in the United States per year may be approved without the demonstration of a reasonable assurance of effectiveness required for a PMA; however, a reasonable assurance of safety must still be demonstrated. A company must first obtain HUD designation by, among other things, identifying the rare disease or condition targeted and the proposed indications for use and demonstrating occurrence in fewer than 4,000 individuals per year. If HUD designation is obtained, marketing approval for an HUD may be sought by submission of an HDE application, and demonstration of the following: that there is no comparable device, other than another HUD approved under the HDE regulation, or a device being studied under an approved Investigational Device Exemption, available to treat or diagnose the disease or condition; that the device does not expose patients to an unreasonable or significant risk of illness or injury; and that the probable benefit to health from the use of the device outweighs the risk of injury or illness from its use, taking into account the probable risks and benefits of currently available devices or alternate forms of treatment. The FDA must issue an order approving or disapproving an HDE within 75 days of receipt of an application that is accepted for filing; however, the agency may also ask for additional information that would constitute a major amendment to the application and restart the review clock for another 75 days. After approval or clearance of an HDE, certain regulatory requirements apply to HUD marketing and use, including a requirement for use in facilities with Institutional Review Board, or IRB, oversight and IRB approval prior to use, and that, with the exception of certain pediatric devices, the HUD not be sold for an amount that exceeds the costs of research and development, fabrication, and distribution of the device. In addition, HUDs are subject to other FDA requirements for devices including establishment registration and device listing, requirements relating to labeling, and corrections and removals and adverse event reporting. Regulatory Approvals and Clearances The ADVANCE System received 510(k) clearance as a Class II medical device in April 2008 for its intended use by physicians to perform nerve conduction studies and needle electromyography procedures. 15 Table of Contents The NC-stat System has been the subject of several 510(k) clearances, the most recent in July 2006. The NC-stat System is cleared for use to stimulate and measure neuromuscular signals that are useful in diagnosing and evaluating systemic and entrapment neuropathies. During the fourth quarter of 2006, at the request of the FDA, we submitted a 510(k) relating to portions of the onCall Information System that are currently in use in the NC-stat System. In June 2010 we received a not substantially equivalent (NSE) determination from the FDA regarding this 510(k) submission. We appealed the decision to the FDA's next level supervisor who upheld the NSE determination. In February 2011 we notified the FDA that we have implemented a program to transition users of NC-stat devices to our 510(k) cleared ADVANCE System that does not use the portions of the onCall System referenced in the NSE decision. This transition program is expected to be accomplished during 2011. Further, we indicated that we plan to take advantage of the next appeal level under FDA regulations and intend to submit a formal appeal request. We continue to maintain a dialogue with the FDA's Center for Devices and Radiological Health regarding the FDA's concerns. We believe our NC-stat SL device is a technical modification to the 510(k) cleared NC-stat device (K041320), has the same intended use, and does not use those portions of the onCall System referenced in the NSE decision. Under the FDA's published guidance on 510(k) requirements for modified devices, we do not believe that a new 510(k) submission is required for NC-stat SL at this time. Manufacturing Facilities Our facility, and the facility utilized by Sunburst, our contract device manufacturer, have each been inspected by FDA in the past, and observations were noted. There were no findings that involved a significant violation of regulatory requirements. The responses to these observations have been accepted by the FDA and we believe that we and our contract manufacturer are in substantial compliance with the QSR. We expect that our facility and the facility utilized by our contract manufacturer will be inspected again as required by the FDA. If the FDA finds significant violations, we or our contract device manufacturer could be subject to fines, recalls, requirements to halt manufacturing, or other administrative or judicial sanctions. U.S. Anti-Kickback and False Claims Laws In the United States, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, as well as numerous state anti-kickback laws, prohibit the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of kickbacks, bribes or other remuneration, whether direct or indirect, overt or covert, in cash or in kind, intended, among other things, to induce the purchase or recommendation of healthcare products and services. While the federal law applies only to products and services for which payment may be made by a federal healthcare program, the state laws may apply regardless of whether any public healthcare funds are involved. Violations of these laws can lead to severe civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. These laws are potentially applicable to manufacturers of medical devices, such as us, and to hospitals, physicians and other potential purchasers of our products. Also, the federal False Claims Act, as well as many state false claims statutes, provides civil and criminal penalties for presenting, or causing to be presented, to third-party payers for reimbursement, claims that are false or fraudulent, or which are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Under the federal False Claims Act, in addition to actions initiated by federal law enforcement authorities, the statute authorizes "qui tam" actions to be brought on behalf of the federal government by a private party in certain circumstances and, if successful, that private party can share in any monetary recovery. Any challenge by federal or state enforcement officials or others under these laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2010, we had a total of 69 employees. Of these employees, 17 were in research and development, 35 in sales and marketing, 3 in distribution and 14 in general and administrative services. One employee holds both M.D. and Ph.D. degrees, five additional employees hold a Ph.D. degree, and one additional employee holds an M.D. degree. Our employees are not represented by a labor union and are not subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe that we have good relations with our employees. Available Information Access to our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, may be obtained through the Investor Relations section of our website at www.neurometrix.com/investor as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish these reports. We do not charge for access to and viewing of these reports. Information on our Investor Relations page and on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any of our other securities filings unless specifically incorporated herein by reference. In addition, the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, our filings with the SEC may be accessed through the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. All statements made in any of our securities filings, including all forward-looking statements or information, are made as of the date of the document in which the statement is included, and we do not assume or undertake any obligation to update any of those statements or documents unless we are required to do so by law. Corporate Information NeuroMetrix was founded in June 1996 by our President and Chief Executive Officer, Shai N. Gozani, M.D., Ph.D. We originally were incorporated in Massachusetts in 1996, and we reincorporated in Delaware in 2001. Our principal offices are located at 62 Fourth Avenue, Waltham, Massachusetts 02451. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings before making any investment decisions with respect to our common stock. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, prospects, reputation, results of operations, or financial condition could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and our stockholders could lose all or part of their investment. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and cannot assure you that we will again achieve profitability. The extent of our future operating income or losses is highly uncertain, and we may not be able to reach and sustain profitability. We have incurred significant cumulative net losses since our inception. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, were approximately $16.9 million, $11.9 million, and $27.7 million, respectively, reflecting a decline in revenues. At 17 Table of Contents December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $118.6 million. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reach or sustain profitability. We have shifted our business focus to diabetes care, specifically detection and monitoring of diabetic neuropathy. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing and commercializing NC-stat SL for screening and monitoring diabetic neuropathy. We are developing a rapid, cost-effective, objective test for diabetic neuropathy. We are working toward a mid-2011 launch of NC-stat SL, which is a modified version of our existing NC-stat device designed specifically for assessment of diabetic neuropathy at the point of care. Our future prospects are closely tied to our success with NC-stat SL which, in turn, depends upon successful and timely completion of the development process, market acceptance, and growth in future revenues. We cannot assure you that our strategy for NC-stat SL will be successful or that we will achieve this success, which could materially affect our revenues and results of operations. We have launched the ADVANCE System into the physician office market where we previously sold the NC-stat System. If our physician office customers do not adopt the ADVANCE System in sufficient numbers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. With the evolution of our product line and launch of the ADVANCE System into the physician office market in October 2010, we are no longer promoting the NC-stat System in that market. The NC-stat System has been sold into the physician office market since its initial launch in May 1999. The ADVANCE System has been sold into specialty markets such as neurology, orthopedic surgery, and pain management since 2008. We may be unable to convince physicians that the ADVANCE System provides an effective diagnostic solution. In addition, physicians may be reluctant to make the investment required to acquire and transition to the ADVANCE System. If we are unable to encourage sufficient adoption and utilization of the ADVANCE System in the physician office market, our revenues will decline and our business will suffer. If physicians or other health care providers are unable to obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party health care payers for procedures performed using our products, the adoption of our products and our future product sales will continue to be materially adversely affected. Widespread adoption of our products by the medical community is unlikely to occur if physicians do not receive sufficient reimbursement from third-party payers for performing procedures using our products. If physicians are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement for procedures performed using our products, we may be unable to sell our products at levels that are sufficient to allow us to achieve and maintain profitability, and our business would suffer significantly. Additionally, even if these procedures are reimbursed by third-party payers, adverse changes in payers' policies toward reimbursement for the procedures would harm our ability to market and sell our products. Third-party payers include those governmental programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, workers' compensation programs, private health insurers and other organizations. These organizations may deny coverage if they determine that a procedure was not reasonable or necessary, for example, if its use was not considered medically appropriate, or was experimental, or was performed for an unapproved indication. In addition, some health care systems are moving towards managed care arrangements in which they contract to provide comprehensive health care for a fixed cost per person, irrespective of the amount of care actually provided. These providers, in an effort to control health care costs, are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and, in some instances, have pressured medical suppliers to lower their prices. Guidelines of the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, set the reimbursement rates for procedures covered by Medicare. 18 Table of Contents Future regulatory action by CMS or other governmental agencies or negative clinical results may diminish reimbursement payments to physicians for performing procedures using our products. Medicaid reimbursement differs from state to state, and some state Medicaid programs may not cover the procedures performed with our products or pay physicians an adequate amount for performing those procedures, if at all. Additionally, some private payers do not follow the Medicare guidelines and may reimburse for only a portion of these procedures or not at all. We are unable to predict what changes will be made in the reimbursement methods used by private or governmental third-party payers. On October 30, 2009, the Physician Fee Schedule for 2010 was published by CMS and included a new category I CPT code, CPT code 95905, for nerve conduction studies performed with preconfigured electrode arrays, such as those utilized with our ADVANCE System. During the course of 2010, the new code was adopted throughout the Medicare system. Although Medicare now provides coverage for nerve testing using our proprietary pre-configured electrodes under CPT 95905, most commercial insurance companies have not yet revised their coverage policies despite the abundance of evidence based studies documenting the accuracy and clinical utility of the procedure, particularly for carpal tunnel syndrome and diabetic neuropathy. While we are working towards broader coverage, uncertain physician economics have made new account acquisition challenging. We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, which could restrict the sales and marketing of the ADVANCE System and could cause us to incur significant costs. We sell medical devices that are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA with regard to manufacturing, labeling, sale, promotion, distribution and shipping. Before a new medical device, or a new use of or claim for an existing product, can be marketed in the United States, it must first be cleared or approved by the FDA. Medical devices may be marketed only for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. The regulatory review process can be expensive and lengthy. The FDA's process for granting 510(k) clearance typically takes approximately three months, but it can be significantly longer. The process for obtaining a pre-market approval, or PMA, is much more costly and onerous. By law, the time period designated for the FDA's review of a PMA is 180 days; however, this time is often extended and it is not uncommon for the PMA review process to take three years or longer from the time the application is filed with the FDA. The FDA may remove our devices from the market or enjoin them from commercial distribution if safety or effectiveness problems develop. Further, we may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearances or pre-market approvals for new products or for modifications to, or additional indications for, our existing products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearances or approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our revenue and future profitability. We have made modifications to our devices in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees, and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified devices. If any of these events occurs or if the FDA takes other enforcement actions, we may not be able to provide our customers with the products they require on a timely basis, our reputation could be harmed, and we could lose customers and suffer reduced revenues and increased costs. In the second quarter of 2010, we were notified by the FDA that certain reporting functions of the onCall Information System ("onCall") that operates with the company's cleared NC-stat device and for which we submitted a 510(k) premarket notification in 2006 were deemed by the FDA to be not substantially equivalent (NSE) to the cleared NC-stat System or other existing predicate devices. In its letter, the FDA indicated that we could submit another 510(k) with specific additional information identified in the letter. onCall has been in use since 1999, and continued in use with FDA's agreement after we voluntarily submitted a 510(k) in 2006 for these reporting functions, in order to resolve our 19 Table of Contents differences of opinion with FDA as to whether such reporting functions had been covered by previous 510(k) premarket notifications. We submitted an administrative appeal of FDA's NSE determination in July 2010. The appeal was made to the FDA's next level supervisor under Title 21of the Code of Federal Regulations Part 10.75, Internal Agency Review of Decisions. In December 2010, FDA's next level supervisor upheld the NSE decision and stated that onCall should not be marketed nor should users of NC-stat devices continue to have access to certain components of onCall. The FDA response suggested that we submit a new 510 (k) for certain components of onCall. In our February 2011 reply to FDA we reported that we have implemented a program to transition users of NC-stat devices to our 510(k) cleared ADVANCE System which does not use those components of onCall which are addressed in the NSE letter. This transition program is expected to be accomplished within 2011. Further, we indicated that we plan to take advantage of the next appeal level under FDA regulations and intend to submit a formal appeal request. We continue to maintain a dialogue with the FDA's Center for Devices and Radiological Health regarding their concerns. We cannot currently predict the outcome of further administrative appeal or FDA's evaluation of our transition plan. With the evolution of our product line and launch of the ADVANCE System into the physician office market in October 2010, the NC-stat device with onCall is no longer being sold to new customers. Our installed base of NC-stat accounts built up over the past decade continues to perform nerve conduction testing using the NC-stat System including onCall. If the FDA does not ultimately clear these reporting functions or find our ADVANCE transition plan acceptable and we are unable to offer onCall in its present configuration, we may be required to modify or remove these reporting functions. We believe that we could manage the modifications in an orderly manner and in a way that the NC-stat System might retain its current utility for physicians. However, we are not able to predict the impact such modifications might have on our ability to generate revenues from the NC-stat System, particularly during a transition period, or the costs involved in transitioning these customers to the ADVANCE System. Either resolution, even if successful, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our NC-stat SL device, for monitoring diabetic peripheral neuropathy at the point of care, is a technical modification to the NC-stat device, has the same intended use, and does not use those portions of the onCall System referenced in the NSE decision. Under the FDA's published guidance on 510(k) requirements for modified devices, we do not believe that a new 510(k) submission is required for NC-stat SL at this time. We also are subject to numerous post-marketing regulatory requirements, including FDA's quality system regulations, which relate to the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation and servicing of our products, labeling regulations, medical device reporting regulations and correction and removal reporting regulations. Our failure or the failure by any manufacturer of our products to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA. FDA enforcement actions relating to post-marketing regulatory requirements or other issues, including any issues arising from the not substantially equivalent letter described above, may include any of the following: •warning letters, untitled letters, fines, injunctions, product seizures, consent decrees and civil penalties; •requiring repair, replacement, refunds, customer notifications or recall of our products; •imposing operating restrictions, suspension or shutdown of production; •refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to existing products; •requesting voluntary rescission of 510(k) clearances or withdrawing PMA approvals that have already been granted; and •criminal prosecution. 20 Table of Contents If any of these events were to occur, they could harm our reputation, our ability to generate revenues and our profitability. Also, from time to time, legislation is introduced into Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the approval, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. The FDA has publicly stated that it is reevaluating its longstanding 510(k) review program. It is not clear when the program will be modified and what effect the modified review process will have on our ability to bring our product candidates to market. We may be required to raise additional funds to finance our operations and remain a going concern; we may not be able to do so when necessary, and/or the terms of any financings may not be advantageous to us. Although we believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and the cash to be generated from expected product sales will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements into 2012, our capital requirements are uncertain and will depend on many factors, including: •the revenues generated by sales of our products; •the costs associated with our sales and marketing efforts; •the expenses we incur in manufacturing and selling our products; •the costs of developing new products or technologies and enhancements to existing products; •the cost of obtaining and maintaining FDA approval or clearance of our products and products in development; •the costs associated with any expansion; and •the number and timing of any acquisitions or other strategic transactions. As a result of these factors, we may need to raise additional funds, and these funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. If any of these events occurs, our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals would be adversely affected. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable NASDAQ Global Market requirements and The NASDAQ Stock Market determines to delist our common stock, the delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock, impair the value of your investment, and harm our business. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other requirements. On September 24, 2010, we received notice from the Listing Qualifications Department of the NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, that our common stock had not met the $1.00 per share minimum bid price requirement for the last 30 consecutive business days pursuant to NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1) and that, if we were unable to 21 Table of Contents demonstrate compliance with this requirement during the applicable grace periods, our common stock would be delisted after that time. The notification letter stated that pursuant to NASDAQ Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A) we would be afforded 180 calendar days, or until March 23, 2011, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. In order to regain compliance, shares of our common stock must maintain a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. If we do not regain compliance by March 23, 2011, NASDAQ will provide written notification to us that our common stock will be delisted. At that time, we may appeal NASDAQ's delisting determination to a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel. Alternatively, we may be eligible for an additional 180 day grace period if we satisfy all of the requirements, other than the minimum bid price requirement, for listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5505. The closing bid price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market was $0.51 on March 1, 2011. While we intend to engage in efforts to regain compliance, and thus maintain our listing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to regain compliance during the applicable time periods set forth above. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable NASDAQ Global Market requirements in the future and NASDAQ determines to delist our common stock, the delisting could substantially decrease trading in our common stock and adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock; adversely affect our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, if at all, for the continuation of our operations; and harm our business. Additionally, the market price of our common stock may decline further and stockholders may lose some or all of their investment. We may be unable to expand the market for the ADVANCE System, which would limit our ability to increase our revenues. For our future growth, we are relying, in part, on increased use of nerve conduction studies by physicians. A number of factors could limit the increased use of nerve conduction studies and consequently, the need for the ADVANCE System to perform the studies, including: •third-party payers challenging, or the threat of third-party payers challenging, the necessity of increased levels of nerve conduction studies; •third-party payers reducing or eliminating reimbursement for procedures performed by physicians using the ADVANCE System; •decreased rates of patient visits to physicians; •unfavorable experiences by physicians using the ADVANCE System; •physicians' lack of awareness of, or reluctance to rely on, the new CPT code for reimbursement of nerve conduction studies performed with preconfigured electrode arrays; •physicians' reluctance to alter their existing practices; and •the failure of other companies' existing drug development programs to produce an effective treatment for large fiber diabetic peripheral neuropathy, or DPN, which may limit the perceived need and the actual use of the ADVANCE System in connection with this disease, and thereby limit or delay our growth in the DPN market, which we have estimated to be our largest potential market for our ADVANCE System. If we are unable to expand the market for the ADVANCE System, our ability to increase our revenues will be limited and our business prospects will be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents We depend on several single source manufacturers to produce the ADVANCE System, and any materially adverse changes in our relationships with these manufacturers could prevent us from delivering products to our customers in a timely manner and may adversely impact our future revenues or costs. We rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture all of the components of the ADVANCE System. In the event that our manufacturers cease to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products in a timely manner and on terms acceptable to us, we would be forced to locate alternate manufacturers. Additionally, if our manufacturers experience a failure in their production process, are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of the components necessary to manufacture our products or otherwise fail to meet our quality requirements, we may be forced to delay the manufacture and sale of our products or locate an alternative manufacturer. We may be unable to locate suitable alternative manufacturers for our products, particularly our electrodes, for which the manufacturing process is relatively specialized, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We have entered into exclusive manufacturing and supply agreements with Parlex for the manufacture of the electrodes, and Sunburst for the manufacture of our ADVANCE monitors, docking stations, and communication hubs. We have experienced transient inventory shortages on new products during the initial production ramp-up phase. If any materially adverse changes in our relationships with these manufacturers occur, our ability to supply our customers will be severely limited until we are able to engage an alternate manufacturer or, if applicable, resolve any quality issues with our existing manufacturer. This situation could prevent us from delivering products to our customers in a timely manner, lead to decreased sales or increased costs, or harm our reputation with our customers. If our manufacturers are unable to supply us with an adequate supply of products as we expand our markets, we could lose customers, our potential future growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. In order for us to successfully expand our business within the United States and internationally, our contract manufacturers must be able to provide us with substantial quantities of our products in compliance with regulatory requirements, in accordance with agreed upon specifications, at acceptable cost and on a timely basis. Our potential future growth could strain the ability of our manufacturers to deliver products and obtain materials and components in sufficient quantities. Manufacturers often experience difficulties in scaling up production, including problems with production yields and quality control and assurance. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of high quality products to meet customer demand on a timely basis, we could lose customers, our growth may be limited and our business could be harmed. We currently rely entirely on sales of the products that comprise the ADVANCE System to generate substantially all of our revenues, and any factors that negatively impact our sales of these products could significantly reduce our ability to generate revenues. We introduced the ADVANCE System to the market in June 2008. We sold the NC-stat System from its initial market launch in May 1999 through September 2010. We have derived, and continue to derive, substantially all of our revenues from sales of the products that comprise these two systems, and we expect that sales of the ADVANCE System will continue to constitute the majority of our sales for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, our ability to generate revenues is reliant on our ability to market and sell the products that comprise the ADVANCE System, particularly electrodes, sales of which (including the predecessor NC-stat system) accounted for approximately 85-91% of our total revenues in each of the past three years. Our sales of these products may be negatively impacted by many factors, including: •changes in reimbursement rates or policies relating to our products by third-party payers; 23 Table of Contents •rate of adoption of the new Medicare Category I CPT code for nerve conduction studies performed with pre-configured electrode arrays, such as are utilized with the ADVANCE System; •the failure of the market to accept our products; •manufacturing problems; •claims that our products infringe on patent rights or other intellectual property rights owned by other parties; •adverse regulatory or legal actions relating to our products; •competitive pricing and related factors; and •results of clinical trials relating to our products or our competitors' products. If any of these events occurs, our ability to generate revenues could be significantly reduced. The success of our business depends upon our ability to advance our pipeline products to commercialization. Currently, our revenues entirely depend upon sales of our neurodiagnostic systems and those sales have been declining in recent quarters. At the present time, we are focused on supporting the ADVANCE NCS/EMG platform and we are modifying the NC-stat device into a rapid, low cost, point-of-care test for DPN. If we are not successful advancing our pipeline products through development, the regulatory process and commercial launch, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected. We expect that advancing our pipeline products to commercialization, if possible, will require significant time and resources. We may not be successful in our commercialization efforts of any of the product candidates currently in our pipeline and we may not be successful developing, acquiring, or in-licensing additional product candidates, to the extent we decide to do so. The patent rights we rely upon to protect the intellectual property underlying our products may not be adequate, which could enable third parties to use our technology and would harm our ability to compete in the market. Our success will depend in part on our ability to develop or acquire commercially valuable patent rights and to protect these rights adequately. The risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents and other related rights include the following: •the pending patent applications we have filed or to which we have exclusive rights may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; •the claims of any patents that are issued may not provide meaningful protection; •we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; •other parties may challenge patents, patent claims or patent applications licensed or issued to us; and •other companies may design around technologies we have patented, licensed or developed. We also may not be able to protect our patent rights effectively in some foreign countries. For a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent protection. Our patent rights underlying our products may not be adequate, and our competitors or customers may design around our proprietary technologies or independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing on any of our patent rights. In addition, the 24 Table of Contents patents licensed or issued to us may not provide a competitive advantage. If any of these events were to occur, our ability to compete in the market would be harmed. Other rights and measures we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate, which would harm our ability to compete in the market. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, confidentiality, nondisclosure and assignment of invention agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. In particular, we have sought no patent protection for the technology and algorithms we use in our onCall Information System. We rely on trade secrets to protect this information. While we currently require employees, consultants and other third parties to enter into confidentiality, non-disclosure or assignment of invention agreements or a combination thereof where appropriate, any of the following could still occur: •the agreements may be breached; •we may have inadequate remedies for any breach; •trade secrets and other proprietary information could be disclosed to our competitors; or •others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technologies. If, for any of the above reasons, our intellectual property is disclosed or misappropriated, it would harm our ability to protect our rights and our competitive position. We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, which could be expensive and, if we lose, could cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights, which would harm our ability to compete in the market. We rely on patents to protect a portion of our intellectual property and our competitive position. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving and, consequently, patent positions in the medical device industry are generally uncertain. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. Litigation may be necessary to: •assert claims of infringement; •enforce our patents; •protect our trade secrets or know-how; or •determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any lawsuits that we initiate could be expensive, take significant time and divert management's attention from other business concerns. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, our ability to compete in the market or our reputation. Claims that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of others could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and increase our costs. Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the medical device industry. We expect that our products could be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors grows and the functionality of products and technology in different industry segments 25 Table of Contents overlap. Third parties may currently have, or may eventually be issued, patents on which our products or technologies may infringe. Any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us. Any litigation regardless of its impact would likely result in the expenditure of significant financial resources and the diversion of management's time and resources. In addition, litigation in which we are accused of infringement may cause negative publicity, adversely impact prospective customers, cause product shipment delays or require us to develop non-infringing technology, make substantial payments to third parties, or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If a successful claim of infringement were made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our revenues may decrease substantially and we could be exposed to significant liability. Because our lead therapeutic product candidate is in a very early stage of development, there is a high risk of failure, and we may never succeed in developing marketable pharmacologic compounds or generating product revenue from them. We do not have any therapeutic products that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale and do not expect to have any commercial therapeutic products on the market for at least the next several years, if at all. We are currently performing the pre-clinical work required to file an investigational new drug application with the FDA for our lead compound, NM101, for use in chronic spinal cord injury. Trial and error is inherent in science, and we may fail at numerous stages along the way. Success in preclinical studies of a therapeutic product may not be predictive of similar results in humans during clinical trials, and successful results from early clinical trials of a therapeutic product may not be replicated in later clinical trials. We will only receive regulatory approval to commercialize a product candidate if we can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or the applicable foreign regulatory authority, in well-designed and conducted clinical trials, that the therapeutic product is safe and effective and otherwise meets the appropriate standards required for approval for a particular indication. Clinical trials are lengthy, complex, and extremely expensive processes with uncertain results. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials may occur at any stage of testing. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. Additionally, if our clinical trials are unsuccessful or if we decide to discontinue our clinical trials, it could cause adverse publicity, and thus could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we or the manufacturers of our products fail to comply with the FDA's quality system regulation, the manufacturing and distribution of our products could be interrupted, and our product sales and operating results could suffer. We and our contract manufacturers are required to comply with the FDA's quality system regulation, or QSR, which is a complex regulation that governs the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our devices. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic inspections. We cannot assure you that our facilities or the facilities of the manufacturers of our products would pass any future inspection. If our or any of the facilities of the manufacturers of our products fail an inspection, the manufacturing or distribution of our products could be interrupted and our operations disrupted. Failure to take adequate and timely corrective action in response to an adverse inspection could result in a suspension or shutdown of our packaging and labeling operations and the operations of the manufacturers of our products or a recall of our products, or other administrative or judicial sanctions. If any of these events occurs, we may not be able to provide our customers with the quantity of products they require on a timely basis, our reputation could be harmed, and we could lose customers and suffer reduced revenues and increased costs. 26 Table of Contents Our products may be subject to recalls even after receiving FDA clearance or approval, which would harm our reputation, business and financial results. We are subject to the medical device reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or have malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to occur. We are also subject to the correction and removal reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA any field corrections and device recalls or removals that we undertake to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FDCA caused by the device which may present a risk to health. In addition, the FDA and similar governmental agencies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products if there is a reasonable probability that the products would cause serious adverse health consequences or death. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of manufacturing defects, labeling deficiencies, packaging defects or other failures to comply with applicable regulations. Any recall would divert management attention and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers. A recall involving the ADVANCE System would be particularly harmful to our business and financial results because the products that comprise the ADVANCE System currently produce substantially all of our revenues. We are subject to federal and state laws prohibiting "kickbacks" and false or fraudulent claims, which, if violated, could subject us to substantial penalties. Additionally, any challenge to or investigation into our practices under these laws could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business. A federal law commonly known as the federal anti-kickback law, and several similar state laws, prohibit the payment of any remuneration that is intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of health care products or services. These laws constrain a medical device company's sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of business relationships and financial arrangements, including sales programs we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of medical devices. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. From time to time, we may provide coding and billing information as product support to purchasers of our products. Anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance, which can be quite substantial including exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. A number of states have enacted laws that require pharmaceutical and medical device companies to monitor and report payments, gifts and other remuneration made to physicians and other health care professionals and health care organizations. Some state statutes, such as the one in Massachusetts, impose an outright ban on gifts to physicians. These laws are often referred to as "gift ban" or "aggregate spend" laws and carry substantial fines if they are violated. Similar legislation, known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, has been introduced in Congress each year for the past several years but has not yet been enacted. In the event that we are found to have violated these laws or determine to settle a claim that we have done so, our business may be materially adversely affected as a result of any payments required to be made, restrictions on our future operations or actions required to be taken, damage to our business reputation or adverse publicity in connection with such a finding or settlement or other adverse effects relating thereto. Additionally, even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents In February 2009, we announced that we had reached a resolution with the United States Department of Justice, or DOJ, and the Office of Inspector General, or OIG, of the United States Department of Health and Human Services regarding the previously-disclosed investigation into certain of our past sales and marketing practices relating to our NC-stat System. As part of the resolution with the DOJ and OIG, we entered into a three-year Deferred Prosecution Agreement with the DOJ and a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement with the OIG. Failure to comply with the terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement and the Corporate Integrity Agreement could result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and being excluded from government health care programs, which could materially reduce our sales and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are found to have violated laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business. There are a number of federal and state laws protecting the confidentiality of individually identifiable patient health information, including patient records, and restricting the use and disclosure of that protected information. In particular, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services promulgated patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. These privacy rules protect medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting of their own health information and limiting most use and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose. Although we do not believe that we are subject to the HIPAA rules, the exact scope of these rules has not been clearly established. If we are found to be in violation of the privacy rules under HIPAA, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business. The use of our products could result in product liability claims that could be expensive, damage our reputation and harm our business. Our business exposes us to an inherent risk of potential product liability claims related to the manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical devices. The medical device industry historically has been litigious, and we face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of our products were to cause or contribute to injury or death. In particular, the ADVANCE System may be susceptible to claims of injury because it involves the electric stimulation of a patient's nerves. Although we maintain product liability insurance for our products and other commercial insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. As sales and use of our products increase, we may be unable to maintain sufficient product liability or other commercial insurance on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs, and this insurance may not provide us with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. A successful claim brought against us in excess of, or outside of, our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in substantial costs to us, a substantial diversion of management attention and adverse publicity. A product liability claim could also harm our reputation and result in a decline in revenues and an increase in expenses. Our products are complex in design, and defects may not be discovered prior to shipment to customers, which could result in warranty obligations or product liability or other claims, reducing our revenues and increasing our costs and liabilities. We depend upon third parties for the manufacture of our products. Our products, particularly our electrodes, require a significant degree of technical expertise to produce. If these manufacturers fail to produce our products to specification, or if the manufacturers use defective materials or workmanship in the manufacturing process, the reliability and performance of our products will be compromised. 28 Table of Contents If our products contain defects that cannot be repaired quickly, easily and inexpensively, we may experience: •loss of customer orders and delay in order fulfillment; •damage to our brand reputation; •increased cost of our warranty program due to product repair or replacement; •inability to attract new customers; •diversion of resources from our manufacturing and research and development departments into our service department; and •legal action. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing could harm our reputation and materially reduce our revenues and increase our costs and liabilities. If we lose any of our officers or key employees, our management and technical expertise could be weakened significantly. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience, and efforts of our officers, including Shai N. Gozani, M.D., Ph.D., our founder, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Thomas T. Higgins, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Krishnamurthy Balachandran, our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Neurodiagnostics; Guy Daniello, our Senior Vice President of Information Technology; Michael Williams, Ph.D., our Senior Vice President of Engineering; and our other key employees. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies covering any of our employees. The loss of any of our officers or key employees could weaken our management and technical expertise significantly and harm our business. If we are unable to recruit, hire and retain skilled and experienced personnel, our ability to manage and expand our business will be harmed, which would impair our future revenues and profitability. We are a small company with only 69 employees as of December 31, 2010, and our ability to retain our skilled labor force and our success in attracting and hiring new skilled employees will be a critical factor in determining our future performance. We may not be able to meet our future hiring needs or retain existing personnel, particularly given the challenges our business has recently faced. We will face challenges and risks in hiring, training, managing and retaining engineering and sales and marketing employees. Failure to attract and retain personnel, particularly technical and sales and marketing personnel would materially harm our ability to compete effectively and grow our business. If we are unable to successfully expand, develop, and retain our independent sales representatives and distributors, our revenues may decline, our future revenue growth may be limited and our expenses may increase. We are dependent on independent sales representatives and distributors to generate revenues from new accounts. Our ability to develop and maintain a strong force of independent sales representatives and distributors will be affected by a number of factors, including: •our ability to attract, integrate, and motivate sales personnel; •our ability to effectively train sales personnel; •the ability of sales personnel to sell an increased number of products; •the length of time it takes new sales personnel to become productive; 29 Table of Contents •the competition we face from other companies in hiring and retaining sales personnel; •our ability to effectively manage a multi-location, independent sales distribution channel; •our ability to enter into agreements with prospective independent sales representatives and distributors on commercially reasonable terms; and •our ability to get our independent international sales distributors who may sell products of multiple companies to commit the necessary resources to effectively market and sell our products. If we are unable to successfully build, develop, and retain a strong group of independent sales representatives and distributors, our revenues may decline. Failure to develop or enter into relationships to sell products other than our existing products or enhance our existing products could have an adverse effect on our business prospects. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the majority of our revenues were derived from selling the ADVANCE System and the NC-stat system. Our future business and financial success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to introduce or sell new products, including the NC-stat SL, and upgraded products into the marketplace. Developing new products and upgrades to existing and future products imposes burdens on our research and development department and our management. This process is costly, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop new products or enhance the current systems or any of our other current or future products. We also may not be able to enter into relationships with other companies to sell additional products. In addition, as we develop the market for our products, future competitors may develop desirable product features earlier than we do which could make our competitors' products less expensive or more effective than our products and could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. If our product development efforts are unsuccessful, we will have incurred significant costs without recognizing the expected benefits and our business prospects may suffer. We currently compete, and may in the future need to compete, against other medical device companies with potentially greater resources, more established distribution channels and other competitive advantages, and the success of these competitors may harm our ability to generate revenues. We currently do, and in the future may need to, compete directly and indirectly with a number of other companies that may have competitive advantages over us. We compete with companies that sell traditional NCS/EMG equipment including CareFusion Corporation, Cadwell Laboratories, Inc., and Natus Medical Incorporated. Of these companies, CareFusion Corporation, in particular, enjoys significant competitive advantages, including: •greater resources for product development, sales and marketing; •more established distribution networks; •greater name recognition; •more established relationships with health care professionals, customers and third-party payers; and •additional lines of products and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer discounts or incentives. As we develop the market for point-of-service nerve conduction studies, we may be faced with competition from these companies or others that decide and are able to enter this market. Some or all of our future competitors in the point-of-service market may enjoy competitive advantages such as 30 Table of Contents those described above. If we are unable to compete effectively against existing and future competitors, our sales will decline and our business will be harmed. We are dependent upon the computer and communications infrastructure employed and utilized by our onCall Information System and any failures or disruptions in this infrastructure could impact our revenues and profit margins or harm our reputation. We are dependent upon the computer and communications infrastructure employed and utilized by our onCall Information System. Our computer and communications infrastructure consists of standard hardware, off-the-shelf system software components, database servers, proprietary application servers, a modem bank and desktop applications. Our future success will depend, in part, upon the maintenance and growth of this infrastructure. Any failures or outages of this infrastructure as a result of a regulatory action by the FDA, computer virus, intentional disruption of our systems by a third-party, manufacturing failure, telephone system failure, fire, storm, flood, power loss or other similar events, could prevent or delay the operation of our onCall Information System, which could result in increased costs to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns and harm our reputation with our customers. In addition, if our infrastructure fails to accommodate growth in customer transactions, customer satisfaction could be impaired, we could lose customers, our ability to add customers could be impaired or our costs could be increased, any of which would harm our business. If future clinical studies or other articles are published, or physician associations or other organizations announce positions, that are unfavorable to our products, our sales efforts and revenues may be negatively affected. Future clinical studies or other articles regarding our existing products or any competing products may be published that either support a claim, or are perceived to support a claim, that a competitor's product is more accurate or effective than our products or that our products are not as accurate or effective as we claim or previous clinical studies have concluded. Additionally, physician associations or other organizations that may be viewed as authoritative or have an economic interest in nerve conduction studies and in related electrodiagnostic procedures or other procedures that may be performed using our products could endorse products or methods that compete with our products or otherwise announce positions that are unfavorable to our products. We have experienced this with the professional societies representing the neurology community. Any of these events may negatively affect our sales efforts and result in decreased revenues. Our loan and security agreement with Comerica Bank, or our Comerica credit facility, contains financial and operating restrictions that may limit our access to credit. If we fail to comply with covenants in the Comerica credit facility, we may be required to repay any indebtedness thereunder, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Although we have not borrowed any funds under the Comerica credit facility, provisions in the Comerica credit facility impose restrictions on our ability to, among other things: •incur additional indebtedness; •create liens; •replace certain of our executive officers; •enter into transactions with affiliates; •transfer assets; •pay dividends or make distributions on, or repurchase, NeuroMetrix stock; and •merge or consolidate. 31 Table of Contents In addition, we are required to meet certain financial covenants customary with this type of credit facility, including maintaining a minimum specified tangible net worth. The Comerica credit facility also contains other customary covenants. We may not be able to comply with these covenants in the future. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in the declaration of an event of default and could cause us to be unable to borrow under the Comerica credit facility. In addition to preventing additional borrowings under the Comerica credit facility, an event of default, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding under the Comerica credit facility at the time of the default, which would require us to pay all amounts outstanding. If an event of default occurs, we may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or we may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we choose to acquire or invest in new businesses, products or technologies, instead of developing them ourselves, these acquisitions or investments could disrupt our business and could result in the use of significant amounts of equity, cash or a combination of both. From time to time we may seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies, instead of developing them ourselves. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: •the inability to complete the acquisition or investment; •disruption of our ongoing businesses and diversion of management attention; •difficulties in integrating the acquired entities, products or technologies; •difficulties in operating the acquired business profitably; •the inability to achieve anticipated synergies, cost savings or growth; •potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired business; •difficulties in transitioning and maintaining key customer, distributor and supplier relationships; •risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and •unanticipated costs. In addition, any future acquisitions or investments may result in one or more of the following: •issuances of dilutive equity securities, which may be sold at a discount to market price; •the use of significant amounts of cash; •the incurrence of debt; •the assumption of significant liabilities; •increased operating costs or reduced earnings; •financing obtained on unfavorable terms; •large one-time expenses; and •the creation of certain intangible assets, including goodwill, the write-down of which may result in significant charges to earnings. Any of these factors could materially harm our stock price, our business, or our operating results. 32 Table of Contents As we continue to expand into foreign markets, we will be affected by new business risks that may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Foreign markets represented approximately 2% of our revenues in 2010 and we are working to expand market penetration, particularly in Europe. As we continue to expand into foreign markets, we will be subject to new business risks, including: •failure to fulfill foreign regulatory requirements to market our products; •availability of, and changes in, reimbursement within prevailing foreign health care payment systems; •adapting to the differing business practices and laws in foreign countries; •difficulties in managing foreign relationships and operations, including any relationships that we establish with foreign distributors or sales or marketing agents; •limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; •difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; •costs of enforcing contractual obligations in foreign jurisdictions; •recessions in economies outside of the United States; •political instability and unexpected changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; •currency exchange rate fluctuations; and •potentially adverse tax consequences. If we are successful in introducing our products into foreign markets, we will be affected by these additional business risks, which may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, expansion into foreign markets imposes additional burdens on our executive and administrative personnel, research and sales departments, and general managerial resources. Our efforts to introduce our products into foreign markets may not be successful, in which case we may have expended significant resources without realizing the expected benefit. Ultimately, the investment required for expansion into foreign markets could exceed the revenues generated from this expansion. If we are unsuccessful in pending and potential litigation matters, our financial condition may be adversely affected. We are currently involved in a class action lawsuit against certain of our current and former officers and directors relating to allegedly making false and misleading statements and failing to disclose material information to the investing public and engaging in improper business practices. If we are ultimately unsuccessful in this lawsuit, we could be required to pay substantial amounts of cash to the other parties including any legal fees not covered by our insurance. The amount and timing of any of these payments could adversely affect our financial condition. 33 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law, and those anti-takeover provisions that we previously adopted in 2007, may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions: •authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock; •provide for a classified board of directors, with each director serving a staggered three-year term; •prohibit our stockholders from filling board vacancies, calling special stockholder meetings, or taking action by written consent; •provide for the removal of a director only with cause and by the affirmative vote of the holders of 75% or more of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of our directors; and •require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. We have also adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or could discourage a third party from acquiring, the Company or a large block of our common stock. A third party that acquires 15% or more of our common stock could suffer substantial dilution of its ownership interest under the terms of the Shareholder Rights Plan through the issuance of common stock to all stockholders other than the acquiring person. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of our Comerica credit facility precludes us from paying any dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders' sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. 34 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 