Item 1A. Risk Factors CERTAIN RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT GROWTH AND PROFITABILITY The following factors may affect our growth and profitability and should be considered by any prospective purchaser of our securities: The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and has relatively low barriers to entry. Increased competition could result in margin erosion and loss of market share and brand recognition. Our competitors include professional firms, public and privately held companies, universities (traditional and online) and professional and not-for-profit organizations and associations. Many of our existing and potential competitors have greater financial resources, larger market share, broader and more varied libraries, technology and delivery systems that are more flexible or cost-effective, stronger alliances, and/or lower cost structures than we do—which may enable them to establish a stronger competitive position than we have, in part through greater marketing opportunities. If we fail to address competitive developments quickly and effectively, we will not be able to grow. 20 Our growth strategy assumes that we will make targeted strategic acquisitions. A key feature of our growth strategy is strategic acquisitions. We may not be able to maintain our current rate of growth. If we fail to execute on this strategy, our revenues may not increase and our ability to sustain profitability will be impaired. An acquisition strategy is inherently risky. Some of the risks we may face in connection with acquisitions include: • identifying appropriate targets in an efficient and timely fashion; • negotiating terms that we believe are reasonable; • failing to accurately assess the true cost of entering new markets or marketing new products; • integrating the operations, technologies, products, personnel and customers of the acquired enterprise; • maintaining our focus on our existing business; • losing key employees; and • reducing earnings because of disproportionately large depreciation and amortization deductions relating to the acquired assets. We may not be able to identify any appropriate targets or acquire them on reasonable terms. Even if we make strategic acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate these businesses into our existing operations in a cost-effective and efficient manner. If we fail to keep up with changes affecting the markets that we serve, we will become less competitive, adversely affecting our financial performance. In order to remain competitive and serve our customers effectively, we must respond on a timely and cost-efficient basis to changes in technology, industry standards and procedures and customer preferences. We need to continuously develop new course material that addresses new developments, laws, regulations, rules, standards, guidelines, releases and other pronouncements that are periodically issued by legislatures, government agencies, courts, professional associations and other regulatory bodies. In some cases these changes may be significant and the cost to comply with these changes may be substantial. We cannot assure that we will be able to adapt to any changes in the future or that we will have the financial resources to keep up with changes in the marketplace. Also, the cost of adapting our products and services may have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. Our future growth and competitiveness depends on our ability to adapt to new technologies and changes to existing technologies and new applications to meet market demand. One of our principal competitive advantages is our ability to deliver content in multiple formats. This flexibility has enabled us to keep pace with changes in technology and has contributed to our growth. Keeping pace with technological developments can be difficult and expensive, adversely impacting our operating results. However, our continued growth depends on our ability to anticipate and adapt to our customers’ needs and preferences. If we fail to do that, the potential adverse impact could be significant to 21 our business, operating results and financial condition. We cannot assure that we will be able to keep pace and adapt to changes in technology or customer preferences. Our future success depends on retaining our existing key employees and hiring and assimilating new key employees. The loss of key employees or the inability to attract new key employees could limit our ability to execute our growth strategy, resulting in lost sales and a slower rate of growth. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain our key employees including our Chief Executive Officer, Allen S. Greene, and our President, Jack Fingerhut. Mr. Greene is an experienced senior corporate executive who has been instrumental in cutting costs, raising capital and negotiating and consummating the acquisitions that have helped us focus on our core competencies while at the same time expand into new markets. Mr. Fingerhut is one of our founders and is actively involved in sales and marketing and identifying acquisition targets. Mr. Fingerhut also has overall responsibility for the accounting and banking products. He has extensive contacts within—and knowledge of—the accounting profession. Although we have employment agreements with both of these executives, each executive can terminate his agreement at any time. Also, we do not carry, nor do we anticipate obtaining, “key man” insurance on either Mr. Greene or Mr. Fingerhut. It would be difficult for us to replace either one of these individuals. In addition, as we grow we may need to hire additional key personnel. We may not be able to identify and attract high quality employees or successfully assimilate new employees into our existing management structure. In addition, if any of our division heads were to leave, it could affect our revenues adversely. Our sales cycle can be long and unpredictable, which could delay our growth and make it difficult for us to predict earnings. This could lead to stock price volatility. Our sales cycle is unpredictable and depends on various factors including the type and size of the customer and the nature of the product being sold. Generally, sales to larger entities and sales of custom-designed products take longer to close. Most of our revenue is derived from corporate customers. Identifying the decision maker in these enterprises is often time consuming. Other variables in the purchasing process include the timing of disbursement of funds and the person-to-person sales contact process. Sales may take much longer than anticipated, may fall outside the approved budget cycle and, therefore, may not occur due to the loss of funding. This unpredictability has in the past caused, and may in the future cause, our net revenue and financial results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our strategic relationships are usually short-term, non-exclusive arrangements and our strategic partners may provide the same or similar services to our competitors, diluting any competitive advantage we get from these relationships. We rely on our strategic partners to provide us with access to content and to sell our content. Our strategic partners may enter, and some have entered, into identical or similar relationships with our competitors, which could diminish the value of our products. Our relationships with our strategic partners are primarily covered by annual agreements that are subject to renewal. While we do not depend on any single strategic relationship for a significant amount of revenue or to develop content, if a number of these organizations were to terminate their relationships with us at the same time, our ability to develop new content on a timely basis and our ability to distribute content would be impaired. We may not be able to maintain our existing relationships or enter into new strategic relationships. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property adequately or cost effectively, which may cause us to lose market share or reduce our prices. Our success depends in part on our brand identity and our ability to protect and preserve our proprietary rights. We cannot assure that we will be able to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property rights and technology without our authorization. We do not own any patents on our technology. 22 Rather, to protect our intellectual property, we rely on trade secrets, common law trademark rights, trademark registrations, copyright notices, copyright registrations, and confidentiality and work for hire, development, assignment and license agreements with our employees, consultants, third-party developers, licensees and customers. However, these measures afford only limited protection and may be flawed or inadequate. Also, enforcing our intellectual property rights could be costly and time consuming and could distract management’s attention from operating business matters. If we were deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have an adverse effect on our business. We are not an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and we intend to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed an investment company. However, if we were to be deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the Investment Company Act of 1940, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to transact with affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and would harm our business and the price of our common stock. Effects of recession on business. Our customer base consists primarily of large corporations, professional service and other firms, many of whose employees are required to take continuing education on a periodic basis. However, in the event of a recession, some of our clients could seek a cheaper provider of these courses and could curtail the development of customized products. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 