ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, and other information included in or incorporated by reference into this report, including our financial statements and the related notes thereto. Described below are the principal risks that we expect to face, however they are not the only risks we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about, or have not yet identified, may also adversely affect our business. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed and you could lose your entire investment by the occurrence of any of the following risks, or by unforeseen risks not listed below. Risks Related to the Transition and Integration of the Professional Business We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulties or delays in transitioning and merging the Gateway Professional Business into our business. The Gateway Professional Business has historically had approximately three times the gross revenue of MPC Corporation. The transition and integration of the Professional Business into our existing business has strained personnel and financial resources and created additional complexities that we did not fully anticipate. During the transition of Professional Business IT and manufacturing systems from Gateway to MPC Computers’ systems in February 2008, we experienced material delays in manufacturing and customer deliveries, which will result in significantly lower than expected shipment volumes and revenues in the first quarter of 2008 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2007. These delays, which have materially impacted our liquidity, limited and stopped production at times over approximately a three week period at our Nashville manufacturing facility. The delays were caused by a number of issues including, but not limited to, inaccurate bills of materials for our manufacturing processes, inventory procurement and routing problems resulting in parts shortages, and order entry errors by some of our newest sales professionals from the Professional Business that caused some orders to be delayed in getting to our manufacturing floor. In addition, prior to the transition, we moved the manufacture of portable personal computers of the Professional Business that had historically been manufactured in China to our Nashville facility, causing the transition-related issues we encountered to have a more pronounced effect on our operations. During the transition, we also experienced system issues and part delivery delays in our customer service and support area, causing some replacement parts to not reach our customers in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that all integration issues have been identified and corrected, or that these issues have not damaged certain customer relationships. Further issues or delays in manufacturing or providing customer service and support may have a material adverse effect on our operations. Inability to retain the Professional Business customers could result in lower than anticipated revenues for the combined company. We are forecasting the loss of some customers in the Professional Business, and a decline in revenues in 2008 relative to the revenues achieved by MPC Computers and the Gateway Professional Business separately in 2007. Our inability to retain customers of the Professional Business could result in lower revenues than originally anticipated for the combined company at the closing of our acquisition of the Professional Business. 10 Gateway’s warranty and other obligations assumed by us may exceed those contemplated at the time of the acquisition. In connection with our acquisition of the Professional Business, we assumed all of the warranty obligations and certain other obligations, including specified environmental liabilities, of the Professional Business. The amount of the assumed obligations and timing of related cash flows to fund such obligations may differ from our estimates and could adversely impact our limited ability to fund these obligations and adversely impact our relationship with customers and suppliers. While we are indemnified by Gateway for certain past liabilities of the Professional Business, it is possible that we could become liable for obligations arising out of prior operations of the Professional Business. We are not indemnified for prior liabilities of the Gateway Pro Partners, LLC, and would be responsible for any associated liabilities. We determined that we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to the accounting for the Professional Business, and this material weakness creates a reasonable possibility of material misstatements in our financial statements. As a publicly traded company we must maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007, we determined that we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and therefore determined that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective with respect to the Professional Business, which created a reasonable possibility of material misstatements in our financial statements. This material weakness related to our accounting for the Professional Business is more fully explained in “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” of this Report. In order to improve and to maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, significant resources and management oversight will be required. We have begun the process of remediating this material weakness, but this process will take time, and we will not be able to ascertain whether we have remediated this material weakness until the procedures that we put in place have been working for a sufficient period of time for us to determine that they are effective. As a result of this and similar activities, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to remediate this material weakness, or in the future report one or more additional material weaknesses, there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. This could negatively impact the ability of shareholders to rely on previously issued financial statements and could result in a restatement of our financial statements or impact our ability to accurately report financial information on a timely basis, which could adversely affect our stock price. Inability to successfully integrate the Professional Business management team and key employees could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our future operations are highly dependent on the successful integration of the Professional Business management team and key employees. We may encounter various issues including an inability to retain critical Professional Business management team members and key employees, differences in management or operating philosophy, or difficulties in the timely execution of critical directives that may impact the integration of the Professional Business and/or combined operations and performance of our company. If we are unable to integrate management and key employees, or if we lose Professional Business management or key employees, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. We received only a one-year license of the Gateway name, and the loss of the right to use that name could result in decreased sales. We received only a one-year license to utilize the Gateway name and trademark. We believe the Gateway name and trademark offers significantly more brand recognition than the MPC Computers name and trademark, and the loss of the right to use the Gateway trademark after one year could have a negative impact on sales. Integrating product lines and developing/continuing research & development activities may prove unsuccessful. Integrating the product lines and research and development activities of MPC Computers and the Professional Business will be critical to the effectiveness and efficiency of our future operations including sales, procurement, 11 manufacture, production, and distribution of our products. If we are not successful in the timely integration of the product lines, it may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Liquidity Our liquidity and working capital constraints have negatively affected our business and could have a material averse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We face material constraints with regard to liquidity and working capital that have and will likely continue to negatively impact our business. Our liquidity constraints make it difficult for us to execute on our business plan and continue operations without additional concessions from our creditors, which they may not be willing to provide. Our liquidity constraints may harm our vendor relationships, and could cause us to experience credit holds, requirements that we pre-pay for products, and/or a refusal to deliver components or termination of supply arrangements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our liquidity constraints could impact our ability to retain customers and customer contracts, our ability to retain key employees and our ability to fund capital expenditures. In connection with the acquisition of the Professional Business, we encountered additional complexities and costs of a significantly larger organization that have and will continue to strain our limited liquidity and working capital. The difficulties we have experienced during our transition from the Professional Business IT and manufacturing systems to our systems resulted in significant shipment delays which materially impacted our liquidity. Our limited liquidity may result in an inability to meet the future financing needs of the larger combined company, which could impact our business strategies including the full integration of the Professional Business. We may need to raise additional capital to satisfy vendor payment obligations and fund our business if our losses continue and we are not able to satisfy our obligations with cash generated from operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure additional sources of financing on acceptable terms or at all. Even if we do obtain additional funding, the amount of such funding may not be sufficient to fully address all of our liquidity constraints. Any additional secured debt funding may require approval of Wells Fargo and holders and holders of our convertible debentures, and such approval may not be forthcoming. Continuing liquidity constraints could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations, and could result in bankruptcy. If net sales continue to decline and we are unable to further reduce expenses, we will incur losses and may not have sufficient cash flow and, under those circumstances, we will need additional capital to continue operations and to execute on our business plan, and such additional capital may not be available. On a pro forma basis, sales for MPC Corporation and the Professional Business declined significantly in 2006 compared to 2005, and in 2007 compared to 2006. Due to competitive pressures, we have experienced declining revenues and losses since 2005. We experienced an approximate 22% decline in net sales from 2005 to 2006, from $366.6 million to $285.0 million, and an approximate 16% decline in net sales from 2006 to 2007, from $285.0 million to $240.8 million. In addition, under the name HyperSpace Communications, we incurred a net loss of $7.5 million, and MPC incurred a net loss of $21.0 million in 2005. In 2006 and 2007, we incurred net losses of $58.7 million and $11.5 million, respectively. Additionally, the revenue and segment contribution of Gateway’s Professional business segment relating to the Professional Business has been declining. According to Gateway’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, the Professional segment had revenues of $896 million, $987 million, and $1,114 million, respectively for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. Segment contribution for the Professional segment totaled $(6.5) million, $16.9 million, and $58.4 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. If net sales continue to decline and we are unable to make further reductions in costs and expenses, or realize synergies from the acquisition of the Professional Business, we will not be able to fund our operations from cash generated by our business. Because of competitive pressures, the impacts of our liquidity constraints, generally declining average sales prices on many of our products, and other factors, it is possible that our revenues will continue to decline. If we fail to generate sufficient net sales and cash flow to fund operations, our ability to 12 increase sales will be severely limited and we will not be able to operate effectively unless we are able to obtain additional capital through equity or debt financings. Such additional capital may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Under our accounts receivable credit facility, Wells Fargo is not obligated to purchase from us any accounts that it deems unacceptable in its sole discretion. If we default in our obligations under the facility, Wells Fargo could exercise several remedies and our assets will be subject to foreclosure. Our accounts receivable credit facility with Wells Fargo, obtained in November 2006, only provides us with liquidity if Wells Fargo elects, in its sole discretion, to purchase accounts receivable from MPC Computers. Under the facility, MPC Computers may assign to Wells Fargo, and Wells Fargo may purchase from MPC Computers, certain accounts receivable. Wells Fargo will advance to MPC Computers a percentage of the value of the purchased accounts. The accounts receivable facility provides MPC Computers with liquidity only to the extent that MPC Computers is able to generate accounts receivable from its operations, and does not provide for borrowing by MPC Computers against the value of its other assets. Additionally, Wells Fargo has the right to require that MPC Computers repurchase the purchased accounts in the event MPC Computers’ customers do not pay the accounts within specified timeframes, if a material customer dispute arises, or in the event of a default under the facility. Wells Fargo has discretion as to the percentage advanced to MPC Computers against any accounts. Wells Fargo is not obligated to purchase any accounts from MPC Computers that Wells Fargo deems unacceptable in its sole discretion, and it is not required to purchase any minimum amount of accounts receivable from MPC Computers. Because of Wells Fargo’s discretion pursuant to the terms of the facility, and because borrowing is available only against accounts receivable generated from MPC Computers’ operations, we cannot assure you of the amount of liquidity, if any, that will be available to us from Wells Fargo. On October 1, 2007, concurrent with the acquisition of the Professional Business, we entered into an agreement to expand our Receivables Advance Facility to include the Professional Business. The credit terms of the expanded accounts receivables facility are substantially the same as the agreement signed for MPC Computers in November 2006. The accounts receivable facility with Wells Fargo is secured by substantially all of our assets. Additionally, we have unconditionally agreed to guarantee any and all payment obligations incurred under the facility. In the event of defaults under the facility, our assets will be subject to foreclosure. Additionally, Wells Fargo has several additional remedies for default, including acceleration of payment obligations and discontinuation of the purchase of accounts receivable. We are substantially dependent on the willingness of our suppliers to continue to provide credit terms. A decision by suppliers to reduce or terminate credit lines would have a material negative impact on our business. Due to our limited liquidity, we have extended payment to many of our suppliers significantly beyond normal payment terms. We endeavor to maintain strong relationships with the suppliers, but some suppliers have elected to reduce or eliminate credit terms. In addition, in some instances suppliers have placed us on credit hold, which has delayed delivery of components to our manufacturing facility while the issues are resolved. We have received notices of default from suppliers including Microsoft, but are attempting to manage the supplier relationships to the extent possible within the limits of our liquidity constraints. We may not be able to continue to do so. Although we have found additional sources of liquidity, late payments to suppliers may recur, jeopardizing relationships and causing suppliers to stop working with us or to sell their products to our customers by other channels. Further, recurring late payments will result in additional credit holds, If we are unable to satisfy these defaults, it could have a material effect on our operations. If suppliers continue to reduce or eliminate credit terms, we may be unable to continue to obtain necessary components and services in a timely fashion, or at all, which would have a material adverse affect on our business and our ability to continue operations. 13 Our liquidity constraints have resulted in a delay in delivery of components to our factory and delivery products to our customers. Delayed orders could negatively impact our relations with our customers and could result in cancellation of orders. Because of our liquidity constraints, some of our suppliers have delayed delivery of components to our facility pending resolution of payment issues. As a result, some of our deliveries to customers have been delayed. Continued delay in delivery of products could negatively impact our customer relationships and result in decreased sales. Additionally, customers may elect to cancel late orders. Mandatory redemption of our convertible Series B Preferred Stock could have a material impact on our liquidity and cash resources. We issued to Gateway 249,171 shares of MPC Corporation Series B Preferred Stock convertible into 4,983,416 shares of our common stock. All MPC Corporation Series B Preferred Stock issued to Gateway converts to MPC Corporation common stock upon shareholder approval. We believe it is probable that shareholder approval will be obtained. In the event shareholder approval is not obtained, all outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock shares are to be redeemed by us at 1.5 times the closing price of our common stock on October 1, 2008 times the number of shares of common stock into which the Series B Preferred Stock is then convertible. Based on the closing price of our common stock of $0.63 per share on December 31, 2007, the redemption value would be $4.7 million. If we are unable to generate positive cash flow or obtain additional capital prior to any such redemption, the requirement that we pay cash in connection with such redemption may have a material impact on our liquidity and cash resources. Risks Related to Our Customers and Markets We face intense competition from the leading PC manufacturing companies in the world as well as from other hardware and information technology service companies. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may not be able to achieve sufficient market penetration to achieve and sustain profitability. The PC industry is highly competitive and is characterized by aggressive pricing by several large branded and numerous generic competitors, short product life cycles, declining year-on-year average sale prices for personal computers and price sensitivity by customers. Even after the acquisition of the Professional Business, our most significant PC hardware competitors, including Dell and Hewlett-Packard, have substantially greater market presence and greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources, longer operating histories, greater name recognition and a broader offering of products and services. Rackable Systems, EMC and NetApp, our primary competitors in the enterprise hardware business, each has greater market presence, technical resources and a broader offering of servers and storage products than we do. Many of our competitors also have greater resources to acquire and launch new products and technologies, are internationally based or manufacture offshore and enjoy lower labor costs and have greater resources to devote to the development, promotion and sale of products than we do. As a result, they are able to offer products and services that provide significant price or other advantages over those offered by us. We do not attempt to compete on price alone; rather we compete primarily on the basis of: · customer service, warranty and support; · features and functionality of our products; · product customization; · product performance; · product quality and reliability; and · maintaining customer and supplier relationships. To the extent we are unable to compete successfully in any of the foregoing categories, our revenue and business prospects will be affected adversely. We expect competitive pressures to continue into the foreseeable future, particularly as various competitors have from time to time announced intentions to expand their market share through price reductions. We have lost sales opportunities due to competitors proposing prices at levels that we are unable to match. We expect that average sales prices for PCs will continue to decline, although this may be partially offset by an increased mix of higher priced notebook PCs and servers and storage products. If we continue to reduce 14 PC prices in response to competition, are unable to reduce our overall cost structure at the same rate or greater than our declining average selling prices, or are unable to diversify into higher margin areas such as storage and servers, we will be unable to maintain or improve gross margins which will also affect liquidity and cash flows. We have several large customers, including agencies within the U.S. federal government, which represent a significant portion of our net sales. If we were to lose or experience a substantial decline in sales to one or more of these customers, our net sales may decline substantially. Historically, MPC Computers has derived a substantial portion of its net sales from various agencies within the U.S. federal government, as well as state and local government and educational customers. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, MPC Computers derived approximately 40% of its net sales from agencies of the federal government. We believe our purchase of the Professional Business will allow greater penetration of our markets, along with an improved balance between our federal government, state and local government, educational and midsize enterprise customer base. We will continue to work to diversify our customer base to mitigate the risks associated with high customer concentrations in the federal government market. There can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful. Compliance with government contract provisions is subject to periodic audit, and noncompliance with contract terms could result in contract termination, substantial monetary fines and damages, suspension or debarment from doing business with the government and other civil or criminal liability. Additionally, government contracts are terminable at the government’s convenience or upon default. Compliance with government contract provisions is subject to periodic audit. Noncompliance with such contract provisions and government procurement regulations could result in termination of our government contracts, substantial monetary fines or damages, suspension or debarment from doing business with the government and civil or criminal liability. During the term of any suspension or debarment by any government agency, we could be prohibited from competing for or being awarded any contract or order. In addition, substantially all of our government contracts are terminable at any time at the government’s convenience or upon default. Upon termination of a government contract for default, the government may also seek to recover from the defaulting contractor the increased costs of procuring the specified goods and services from a different contractor. On December 17, 2007, the General Services Administration (GSA) served MPC Computers with a subpoena to provide records regarding sales under our GSA Multiple Award Schedule contract. The subpoena relates to an industry-wide investigation into alleged non-compliance with the Trade Agreements Act. We are not presently aware of any material violations of the Trade Agreements Act. However, the matter is in the preliminary stages and we cannot predict an outcome at this time. Our non-compliance could lead to imposition of penalties and termination of the contract. The termination of the contract could lead to loss of substantial revenues from the federal government. Our contracts with governmental agencies make it difficult to accurately predict our future net sales and government customers may elect not to continue or extend contracts with us. Additionally, some of our historic subcontractors could elect to sell their products directly to the government or utilize other partners. Our contracts with the federal, state and local governments do not guarantee any level of sales. These contracts merely authorize the sale of our products to various agencies within the government and are characterized as indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contracts. Accordingly, our customers within the public sector may choose not to continue purchasing our products. The uncertainties related to seasonality of government purchases based on funding, budgetary cycles, future contract performance costs, product life cycles, quantities to be shipped and delivery dates, among other factors, make it difficult to predict the future sales and profits, if any, which may result from such contracts. Furthermore, because we are a prime contractor with the U.S. Government, certain other suppliers act as subcontractors and partner with us to sell their products to the customers. We have been slow in paying subcontractors in connection with our sales of their products. As a result, these subcontractors could seek to sell directly to such agencies or utilize other partners. 15 Our failure to effectively manage product migration and increasingly short product life cycles may directly affect the demand for our products, and could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our business model depends on being able to anticipate changing customer demands and effectively manage the migration from one product to another. Our industry is characterized by rapid changes in technology and customer preferences, which result in the frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles and continual improvement in product price for performance characteristics. Product migrations present some of the greatest challenges and risks for any technology company. We work closely with customers, product and component suppliers and other technology developers to evaluate the latest developments in products. The success of our product introductions depends on many factors including the availability of new products, access to and rights to use proprietary technology, successful quality control and training of sales and support personnel. Furthermore, it is difficult to accurately forecast customer preferences, demands or market trends or transitions. Even if we are successful in developing or transitioning to new or enhanced products or techniques, they may not be accepted by customers or we may not be able to produce them on a timely basis, or at all. Accordingly, if we are unable to effectively manage a product migration, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. Risks Related to Our Operations We rely on third party suppliers to provide critical components of our products, some of which are available from only one source. If our suppliers were unable to meet our demands or fail to deliver supplies because of our inability to meet payment terms, and alternative sources were not available, we could experience manufacturing interruptions, delays or inefficiencies. We require a high volume of quality products and components for our product offerings, substantially all of which we obtain from outside suppliers. For example, we rely on Intel for its processors and motherboards and Microsoft for our operating systems and other software on our computer systems. We also procure a number of components from international suppliers, particularly from Asia, which carries potential political and foreign currency risk. We maintain several single-source supplier relationships primarily to increase our purchasing power with these suppliers. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products to meet customer demand, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our suppliers that would require them to supply products to us for any specific period or in any specific quantities, which could result in shortages or delays. Additionally, there are significant risks associated with our reliance on these third party suppliers, including: · potential price increases, in particular, those that we may not be able to pass on to our customers; · inability to achieve price decreases in our component costs; · inability of suppliers to increase production and achieve acceptable product yields on a timely basis; · delays caused by work stoppages or other disruptions related to the transport of components; · reduced control over delivery schedules, including unexpected delays and disruptions; · reduced control over product quality; and · changes in credit terms provided to us. Any of these factors could curtail, delay or impede our ability to deliver our products and meet customer demand. The estimated cost of providing a product warranty is recorded at the time net sales are recognized. Our warranty-related costs are tied to product we have sold historically and represent a large portion of our costs and expenses. If our revenues decline significantly in any year, our ability to continue to fund our warranty-related costs is diminished. In addition, if actual failure rates of our products exceed the estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required and could negatively affect earnings in the period that the adjustments are made. We provide warranties with the sale of most of our products. Over the course of a year, we fund the cost of servicing our products covered by warranties through our revenues and third party funding. If our sales, and 16 shipments of systems, decline significantly during a year, and our base of systems covered by warranties does not decline in a similar manner, our warranty-related costs will grow significantly as a percentage of our revenue. Under these circumstances, the costs of servicing our warranty portfolio may adversely affect our financial position, or force us to seek additional capital. In addition, the estimated cost of providing a product warranty is recorded at the time net sales is recognized based on historical experience of costs and failure rates of the components making up the systems we sell. Estimated warranty costs are affected by ongoing product failure rates, specific product class failures outside of experience and material usage and service delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure or in providing customer support. If actual product failure rates, material usage or service delivery costs exceed the estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required and could negatively affect earnings in the period the adjustments are made. Actual financial claims for defects may be larger than expected and accrued warranty reserves. If defects are discovered in our products after shipment, we could incur additional costs. Our products may contain undetected defects. Discovery of the defects may occur after shipment, resulting in a loss of or delay in market acceptance, which could reduce our product sales and net sales. In addition, these defects could result in claims by customers for damages against us. Any damage claim could distract management’s attention from operating our business and, if successful, result in significant losses that might not be covered by our insurance. Even if such a claim were to prove unsuccessful, it could cause harm to our reputation and goodwill and could damage our relationship with actual and potential customers. Failure of any portion of our infrastructure at either of our manufacturing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are highly dependent on our manufacturing infrastructure to achieve our business objectives. If we experience a problem that impairs our manufacturing infrastructure, such as a computer virus, intentional disruption of IT systems by a third party, a work stoppage, or manufacturing failure, including the occurrence of a natural disaster which affects our manufacturing facility in Nampa, Idaho or our manufacturing facility in Nashville, Tennessee, the resulting disruptions could impede our ability to book or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner or otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. Any such events could cause us to lose significant customers or net sales and could require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns. Under our current business plan, we assemble portables at our Nashville, Tennessee facility that have historically been assembled in China and primarily drop-shipped to our customers. The additional burden to our Nashville, TN facility would magnify the potential risks to our business should any significant adverse event occur. The lease for our facility in Nampa, which currently houses a portion of our manufacturing capacity and a substantial portion of our administrative functions, expires on May 31, 2008. We are negotiating to renew the lease with our landlord. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful on commercially reasonable terms and may need to seek remedies including relocation of these functions which could have a material negative effect on our financial results. Additionally, we currently operate our Nashville facility on a month-by-month agreement with our landlord. If the landlord was to become uncooperative or seek to terminate our month-to-month arrangement, we would need to find alternative manufacturing facilities and could result in materially negative effects on our financial results. We intend to reduce our historical dependence on desktops and focus on portable and enterprise hardware products. We have not yet fully implemented this strategy and we may not be successful. We may not reach profitability if we do not meet our sales expectations or if our product mix and service offerings are substantially different than anticipated. We intend to reduce our historical dependence on desktops and shift our development and sales efforts toward higher margin portables and server and storage products. We have not yet fully implemented this strategy and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in making the shift or that any such shift will result in higher margins or 17 profitability. If our mix of products and services is substantially different from what we anticipate in any particular period, our earnings could be less than expected. If we are unable to increase sales of higher margin products, including storage and servers, or if margins continue to decline in the current products we offer, our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our inability to properly anticipate customer demand or effectively manage our supply chain could result in higher or lower inventory levels that could adversely affect our operating results and our balance sheet. By distributing products directly to our customers and employing “just-in-time” supply chain management techniques, we have historically been able to avoid the need to maintain high levels of finished goods and component inventory as compared to other manufacturers who do not sell directly to end users and employ just-in-time manufacturing techniques. This has minimized costs and allowed us to respond more quickly to changing customer demands, reducing our exposure to the risk of product obsolescence. However, integration issues with our newly acquired Professional Business, customer concentration, seasonality within our business and changing demands may all result in our inability to properly anticipate customer demand that could result in excess or insufficient inventory of certain products. As a result of our recent integration challenges with the Professional Business, our component inventory stock has grown materially since December 31, 2007. In addition, we maintain certain component products in inventory. A decrease in market demand or an increase in supply, among other factors, could result in higher finished goods and component inventory levels and a decrease in value of this inventory could have a negative effect on our results of operations and our financial position. If we lose the services of one or more members of our executive management team or other key employees, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our future success depends in large part upon the continued service of our executive management team and other key employees. The loss of services of any one or more members of our executive management team or other key employees could seriously harm our business. The inability to quickly replace necessary personnel with qualified employees could harm our business. It is possible that our liquidity constraints, or continued declines in sales, may cause our management and employees to pursue other opportunities and we may not be able to replace them with qualified employees. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed and our growth could be limited. We rely primarily on our direct sales force to generate revenues, and may be unable to hire additional qualified sales personnel in a timely manner or retain our existing sales representatives. We believe that our success depends largely on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. As a result, our future success is dependent on our ability to identify, attract, retain and motivate highly skilled research and development, sales and marketing, finance and customer service and support personnel. Any of our current employees may terminate their employment at any time. The loss of any of our key employees or our inability to attract or retain qualified personnel could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell, our products. Competition for hiring individuals with the skills applicable to our business is intense. We may not be able to hire or retain the personnel necessary to execute our business plan. You cannot rely on past operating results as an indicator of future performance and our future operating results will likely fluctuate. Our past results should not be relied upon as an indicator of our future performance. Our operating results have varied greatly in the past and likely will vary in the future depending upon a number of factors including the successful execution of our new business strategies. These initiatives entail entering new markets, developing new product and service offerings and pursuing new customers. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Our revenues, gross margins and operating results may fluctuate significantly due to, among other things: · shortages and delays in delivery of critical components, including components from foreign suppliers; · competition; 18 · ability to timely pay our suppliers; · business and economic conditions overall and in our markets; · seasonality in the timing and amount of orders we receive from our customers that may be tied to budgetary cycles, product plans or equipment rollout schedules; · cancellations or delays of customer product orders, or the loss of a significant customer; · an increase in operating expenses; · new product announcements or introductions; · our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and product enhancements on a timely basis, if at all; · the sales volume, the timing of component purchases for product assembly, product configuration and mix of products; · technological changes in the market for our products; and · reductions in the average selling prices that we are able to charge to our customers due to competition or other factors. Due to these and other factors, our net sales may not increase or even remain at their current levels. Because a majority of our operating expenses are fixed in the short-term, a small variation in our net sales can cause significant variations in our earnings from quarter to quarter and our operating results may vary significantly in future periods. Therefore, our historical results may not be a reliable indicator of our future performance. General economic, business or industry conditions may adversely affect our future operating results and financial condition. Weak economic conditions in the United States may adversely affect our product sales. If general economic and industry conditions deteriorate, customers or potential customers could reduce their technology investments and demand for our products and services could be adversely affected. For example, reductions in state and local budgets as a result of weak economic conditions have adversely affected our sales to many customers in the public sector. Legal and Regulatory Risks Claims that we are infringing upon intellectual property rights of third parties could subject us to significant litigation and licensing expenses, or prevent us from selling ours products. Because of our liquidity constraints, a significant intellectual property claim or litigation could have a material negative impact our business and ability to continue operations. From time to time, other companies and individuals assert patent, copyright, trademark or intellectual property rights to technologies or marks that are important to the technology industry in general or to our business in particular. Intellectual property litigation is very costly, and any judgments against us with respect to intellectual property infringement could have a material adverse impact on our business. Many of our competitors have significantly larger patent portfolios, which may increase the probability that claims will be asserted against us and decrease our ability to defend such claims. Under Gateway’s ownership, the Professional Business had significantly more patent licenses than we do and it is possible that the acquisition of the Professional Business will lead to increased intellectual property litigation and claims against us. While we are indemnified by Gateway for prior intellectual property infringement of the Professional Business, we are not indemnified for future any infringement. Any litigation or other dispute resolution regarding patents or other intellectual property could be time-consuming and expensive, and divert our management and other key personnel from business operations. The complexity of technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase the risks and potential costs associated with intellectual property infringement claims. In some cases, we may be able to seek indemnification from suppliers of allegedly infringing components, but we cannot assure you that suppliers would agree to provide indemnification or be financially capable of covering potential damages or expenses. Claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into license agreements with costly royalty obligations, payments for past 19 infringement or other unfavorable terms. If we are unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us then we may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against the development and sale of certain products. If we or our suppliers are unable to obtain such licenses, we may be forced to market products without certain desirable technological features. We could also incur substantial costs to redesign these products around other parties’ protected technology. Because of our liquidity constraints, a significant intellectual property claim or litigation, including a claim or litigation with Adams, (See Item 3 – “Legal Proceedings”), could have a material impact on our ability to maintain the operations of the business. Our business success may be dependent on our ability to obtain licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms. Our product offerings are dependent upon obtaining patent and other intellectual property rights from third parties. We may not continue to have access to existing or new third party technology for use in our products. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and business methods. However, the necessary licenses may not be available on acceptable terms and obtaining licenses could be costly. If we or our suppliers are unable to obtain such licenses, we may be forced to market products without certain desirable technological features. We could also incur substantial costs to redesign our products around other parties’ protected technology. Because of our liquidity constraints, we may not be able to acquire necessary licenses or pay the costs to redesign our products. Laws and regulations, including environmental laws, could have a material adverse affect on our business. Production and marketing of products in certain states may subject us to environmental and other regulations. There is substantial complexity associated with compliance with regulations, and the costs of implementation are not easily quantifiable. Compliance also necessitates reliance on the representations made by suppliers as to material composition. While we believe such representations are accurate, we could face significant costs and liabilities if the representations prove to be inaccurate. Furthermore, we must rely on our suppliers’ ability to respond to environmental requirements with compliant products and documentation in a timely manner. Environmental regulations may require us to reengineer our products to utilize components which are more environmentally compatible and such reengineering and component substitution may result in additional costs to us. Although we do not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of our operations and the effect of such laws, there is no assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Securities If we are unable to continue our listing on the AMEX, the value of your investment could be reduced. On October 25, 2007, AMEX notified us that it determined that we resolved our continued listing deficiencies. AMEX’s determination based on a review by AMEX of publicly available information, including our press release dated October 1, 2007 regarding the acquisition of the Professional Business, our SEC filings, and other correspondence we have provided to the AMEX. Previously, the AMEX issued a notice dated April 13, 2006 that we had failed to satisfy the continued listing standards of Section 1003(a)(iv) of the AMEX Company Guide because we had sustained losses which were so substantial in relation to our overall operations or our existing financial resources, or our financial condition had become so impaired that it appeared questionable, in the opinion of AMEX, as to whether we would be able to continue operations and/or meet our obligations as they mature. The October 25, 2007 notice from the AMEX has indicated that we are subject to provisions of Section 1009(h) of the AMEX Company Guide for a period of twelve months, which provides for the method of evaluation and appropriate action by the AMEX staff should we fall below the continued listing standards during that period. Depending on the circumstances, such action includes truncating procedures related to compliance with the continued listing standards or immediately initiating delisting proceedings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue our listing on the AMEX. If we are unable to continue our listing on the AMEX, the value of your investment could be reduced. 20 The inability of the company to timely comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for the combined business could adversely impact us. We are in the process of meeting certain requirements in connection with the implementation of the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”), including in connection with the Professional Business. We anticipate that we will be required to comply with SOX for the Professional Business by the end of 2008. There can be no assurance that we will timely comply with SOX. Our non compliance with SOX in a timely manner could adversely affect our business and negatively impact the value of your investment. We are required to account for certain of our convertible debentures as derivative financial instruments, which could have a significant positive or negative impact on our future earnings. We issued convertible debentures during 2006 that require accounting for certain elements of such debentures as derivative financial instruments. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we must re-measure these financial instruments at each reporting period. Changes in the fair market value of these financial instruments are required to be recognized in earnings. The calculation of the fair market value of these financial instruments contains significant management estimates, and as a result a positive or negative impact on our future earnings could be significant. Gateway owns a significant percentage of our stock and is able to exercise significant influence over matters subject to shareholder approval. As part of the consideration for the purchase of the Professional Business, Gateway received an approximate 19.9% equity stake in MPC Corporation. The issuance of these shares to Gateway in connection with the transaction diluted our existing common shareholders, could possibly negatively impact the market value of the common stock, and makes Gateway the largest holder of our common stock. After consummation of the acquisition, Gateway now has influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, and as such, may approve actions that are adverse to your interests or negatively impact the value of your investment. In addition, all MPC Corporation Series B Preferred Stock issued to Gateway converts to MPC Corporation common stock (i) upon shareholder approval by a majority of the MPC Corporation common shareholders and (ii) at such time as the shares may be converted without causing Gateway’s beneficial ownership of MPC Corporation common stock to exceed 19.9% (the “Series B Automatic Conversion Event”). Under the Asset Purchase Agreement, Gateway agrees to vote in favor of the Series B Automatic Conversion Event. In the event shareholder approval is not obtained by October 1, 2008, all outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock are to be redeemed by MPC Corporation at 1.5 times the closing price times the number of shares of MPC Corporation common stock into which the Series B Preferred Stock is then convertible. An active trading market for our securities has not developed and the prices of our securities may be volatile. An active sustained trading market for our securities has not yet developed. We do not have any analyst coverage of our securities or any commitments to provide research coverage. Our stock price has been volatile since our IPO and the acquisition of MPC Computers in July 2005 that was privately held. The price at which our securities trade is likely to be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to a number of factors including, but not limited to, those discussed in the other risk factors described above and the following: · volatility in stock market prices and volumes, which is particularly common among smaller capitalized companies; · lack of research coverage for companies with small public floats; · failure to achieve sustainable financial performance; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · announcements of technological innovations by us or others; · entry of new or more powerful competitors into our markets or consolidation of existing competitors to create larger, more formidable competitors; · terrorist attacks either in the U.S. or abroad; 21 · general stock market conditions; and · the general state of the U.S. and world economies. Any future sales of our common stock may depress the prices of our securities and negatively affect the value of your investment. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock into the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the prices of our securities or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. If any of the holders of our common stock opt to sell large blocks of our common stock into the public market, it could depress the price of our securities and make it difficult for us to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. In addition, if a significant number of the holders of our public warrants exercise their warrants and re-sell the underlying shares of our common stock in a relatively short period of time, the sale of those shares could depress the market price for our common stock. Additional acquisitions we make could result in dilution to our existing shareholders and could be difficult to integrate, which could cause difficulties in managing our business, resulting in a decrease in the value of your investment. Evaluating acquisition targets is difficult and acquiring other businesses involves risk. Our completion of the acquisition of other businesses would subject us to a number of risks, including the following: · difficulty in integrating the acquired operations and retaining acquired personnel; · limitations on our ability to retain acquired sales and distribution channels and customers; · diversion of management’s attention and disruption of our ongoing business; and · limitations on our ability to incorporate acquired technology and rights into our product and service offerings and maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. Furthermore, we may incur indebtedness or issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions. The issuance of equity or convertible debt securities would be dilutive to our then existing shareholders. We would need approval from Wells Fargo under our credit facility in order to issue additional debt. We are also prohibited from incurring additional debt in certain circumstances under our September 2006 Convertible Debentures. There can be no assurance we would obtain such approvals. We do not intend to pay dividends and you may not experience a return on investment without selling your securities. We have never declared or paid, nor do we intend in the foreseeable future to declare or pay, any cash dividends on our common stock. Since we intend to retain all future earnings to finance the operation and growth of our business, you will likely need to sell your securities in order to realize a return of or on your investment, if any. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even one beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Among other things, these provisions: · authorize the issuance of preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval and deter or prevent a takeover attempt; · prohibit shareholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all shareholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our shareholders; 22 · prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of shareholders to elect director candidates; · provide that our board of directors is divided into three classes, each serving three-year terms; and · establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings. 