ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The payday loan industry is highly regulated under state laws. Changes in state laws governing lending practices could negatively affect our business revenues and earnings. Our business is regulated under numerous state laws and regulations, which are subject to change and which may impose significant costs or limitations on the way we conduct or expand our business. As of December 31, 2012, 33 states and the District of Columbia had legislation permitting or not prohibiting payday loans. The remaining 17 states did not have laws specifically authorizing the payday loan business or have laws that effectively preclude us from offering the payday loan product by capping the interest fee we can earn at an annual percentage rate of 36% or lower, which makes offering the payday product in those states unprofitable. During 2012, we made payday loans directly in 20 of these 33 states. In addition, in Texas we operate as a credit services organization, assisting our customers in Texas in obtaining loans from an unrelated third-party lender. During the last few years, legislation has been adopted in some states in which we operate or operated that prohibits or severely restricts payday loans. For example, legislation that prohibits or severely restricts payday loans has been adopted in Montana (2010 via a ballot initiative) South Carolina (2009), Washington (2009), Kentucky (2009), Ohio (2008), Virginia (2008), New Mexico (2007), Oregon (2006) and Illinois (2005 and 2011). Some states, including Mississippi and Arizona, which are states in which we operate, have sunset provisions in their payday loan laws that require renewal of the laws by the state legislatures at periodic intervals. The Arizona payday loan statutory authority expired by its terms on June 30, 2010 and the termination of this law had a significant adverse effect on our revenues and profitability for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011. In February 2011, the sunset provision of the Mississippi payday loan law was extended from July 1, 2012 to July 1, 2015. In recent years, including 2012, more than 200 bills have been introduced in state legislatures nationwide, including bills in virtually every state in which we are doing business, to revise the current law governing payday loans in that state. In certain instances, the bills, if adopted, would effectively prohibit payday loans in that state. In other instances, the bills, if adopted, would amend the payday loan laws in ways that would adversely affect our revenues and earnings in that state. Any of these bills, or future proposed legislation or regulations prohibiting payday loans or making them less profitable or unprofitable, could be passed in any of these states at any time, or existing payday loan laws could expire or be amended. Legislative changes (or failures to extend payday lending laws) have had a significant adverse effect on our business, revenues and earnings in New Mexico, Arizona, Washington, South Carolina, Illinois, Virginia and certain other states in recent years. Voter initiatives to limit or prohibit payday lending can result in expensive ballot campaigns and changes to state laws, both of which can adversely affect our results of operations. State laws can be changed by ballot initiative or referendum in certain states. A 2010 ballot initiative in Montana precluded payday lending on profitable terms, thus effectively prohibiting payday lending in Montana. Similarly, the prospect of a ballot initiative in Oregon during 2006 led to legislation that effectively prohibits payday lending in that state. After those measures were passed, we closed all our branches in Montana and Oregon. Ballot initiatives can also be expensive to oppose and are more susceptible to emotion than deliberations in the normal legislative process. We have spent substantial amounts in the past related to ballot initiatives and would expect to do so in the future if another ballot initiative is proposed. 20 Table of Contents There was an effort in Missouri to place a voter initiative on the statewide ballot in November 2012, which was intended to preclude any lending in the state with an annual rate over 36%. The supporters of the voter initiative did not submit a sufficient number of valid signatures to place the initiative on the ballot in November 2012. However, a similar initiative was submitted to the Missouri Secretary of State in December 2012 for inclusion on the November 2014 ballot subject to the proponents submitting the required number of valid signatures in support of the initiative. If the Missouri ballot initiative is placed on the ballot in 2014 and passes, we would be forced to cease our payday lending operations in Missouri, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2012, our Missouri branches accounted for approximately 22% and 33% of our total revenues and gross profits, respectively. The loss of revenues and gross profit would likely cause us to violate one or more of the financial covenants under our current credit agreement and our outstanding subordinated notes and would likely result in an immediate termination of our regular cash dividend on our common stock. Changes in state regulations or interpretations of state laws and regulations governing lending practices could negatively affect our business, revenues and earnings, and the costs of regulatory compliance are increasing. Statutes authorizing payday loans typically provide state agencies that regulate banks and financial institutions with significant regulatory powers to administer and enforce the law. Under statutory authority, state regulators have broad discretionary power and may impose new licensing requirements, interpret or enforce existing regulatory requirements in different ways or issue new administrative rules, even if not contained in state statutes, that affect the way we do business and may force us to terminate or modify our operations in particular states. They may also impose rules that are generally adverse to our industry. Furthermore, to the extent that a state determined that our lack of compliance warranted termination of our license, we would be precluded from operating in that state and may be required to report that license termination to other states pursuant to notification requirements or upon the licensing renewal process in those other states. States have generally increased their regulatory and compliance requirements for payday loans in recent years, and our branches are subject to examination by state regulators in most states. We have taken or been required to take certain corrective actions as a result of self-audits or state audits of our branches and the level of regulation and compliance costs have increased and we anticipate that they will continue to increase. Additionally, in many states, the attorney general has scrutinized or continues to scrutinize the payday loan statutes and the interpretations of those statutes. For instance, in September 2005, the New Mexico Attorney General promulgated regulations (later withdrawn) that would have had the practical effect of limiting the fees and interest on payday loans to 54% per annum, thus effectively prohibiting payday lending in New Mexico. Similarly, in December 2009, the Arizona Attorney General filed a lawsuit against us in Arizona state court alleging that we violated various state consumer protection statutes. Future interpretations of state law in other jurisdictions or promulgation of regulations or new interpretations, similar to the prior actions in New Mexico or the ruling by the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks as discussed below, could have an adverse impact on our ability to offer payday loans in those states and an adverse impact on our earnings. The payday loan industry is regulated under federal law. Changes in federal laws and regulations governing lending practices could negatively affect our business. Although states provide the primary regulatory framework under which we offer payday loans, certain federal laws (in addition to the Dodd-Frank Act discussed immediately below) also affect our business. For example, because payday loans are viewed as extensions of credit, we must comply with the federal Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z adopted under that Act. Additionally, we are subject to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and with respect to our CSO business in Texas, 21 Table of Contents the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act. These regulations also apply to any lender with which we do business in Texas through our credit services organization business. A failure to comply with any of these federal laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, anti-payday loan legislation, including 36% interest rate cap bills that would effectively prohibit payday lending, have been introduced in the U.S. Congress in the past. Earlier federal efforts culminated in federal legislation that limits the interest rate and fees that may be charged on any short-term loans, including payday loans, to any person in the military to 36% per annum, which became effective October 1, 2007 and effectively bans payday lending to members of the military or their families. Future federal legislative or regulatory action that restricts or prohibits payday loans could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and a 36% interest rate cap or similar federal limit, without the inclusion of meaningful fees, would effectively require us to cease our payday loan operations nationally. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the CFPB to adopt rules that could potentially have a serious impact on our ability to offer short-term consumer loans and also empowers the CFPB and state officials to bring enforcement actions against companies that violate federal consumer financial laws. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB. The CFPB became operational in July 2011, although it did not have the ability to oversee non-depository institutions and write rules until a permanent director was installed. President Obama appointed a permanent director in December 2011 without confirmation by the U.S. Senate, using the President’s recess appointment power. The CFPB has regulatory, supervisory and enforcement powers over providers of consumer financial products and services, including explicit supervisory authority to examine and require registration of payday lenders. Included in the powers afforded the CFPB is the authority to adopt rules describing specified acts and practices as being “unfair,” “deceptive” or “abusive,” and hence unlawful. The director of the CFPB has suggested that payday and title lending should be a regulatory priority, and the CFPB has already conducted public hearings to obtain public input regarding the payday loan industry. Accordingly, it is possible that at some time in the future the CFPB will propose and adopt rules making payday or title loan lending services materially less profitable or impractical, forcing us to modify or terminate certain product offerings, including payday and title loans. The CFPB could also adopt rules imposing new and potentially burdensome requirements and limitations with respect to our other lines of business. Any such rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition or could make the continuance of our current business impractical or unprofitable. In addition to Dodd-Frank’s grant of regulatory and supervisory powers to the CFPB, Dodd-Frank gives the CFPB authority to pursue administrative proceedings or litigation for violations of federal consumer financial laws (including the CFPB’s own rules). In these proceedings, the CFPB can obtain cease and desist orders (which can include orders for restitution or rescission of contracts, as well as other kinds of affirmative relief) and monetary penalties ranging from $5,000 per day for violations of federal consumer financial laws to $25,000 per day for reckless violations and $1.0 million per day for knowing violations. Also, where a company has violated Title X of Dodd-Frank or CFPB regulations under Title X, Dodd-Frank empowers state attorneys general and state regulators to bring civil actions for the kind of cease and desist orders available to the CFPB (but not for civil penalties). If the CFPB or one or more state officials believe we have violated the foregoing laws or regulations, they could exercise their enforcement powers in ways that would have a material adverse effect on us. 22 Table of Contents The CFPB staff has an ongoing examination of various companies in the payday loan industry, including an examination of us in 2012. We believe that a primary purpose of this initial round of industry examinations is for the CFPB staff to obtain baseline information about the industry as a precursor to considering and implementing future regulation of the industry. We cannot predict the scope of any future rules or regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Litigation and regulatory actions directed toward our industry and us could adversely affect our operating results, particularly in certain key states. During the last few years, our industry has been subject to regulatory proceedings, class action lawsuits and other litigation regarding the offering of payday loans, and we could suffer losses from interpretations of state laws in those lawsuits or regulatory proceedings, even if we are not a party to those proceedings. In recent years, we have experienced a higher number of purported class action lawsuits by our customers against us. In 2011, we reached a settlement in a purported class action lawsuit in Missouri. We presently have pending against us class action lawsuits in North Carolina and Canada as described under Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” The consequences of an adverse ruling in any of the current cases or future litigation or proceedings could cause us to have to refund fees or interest collected on payday loans, to refund the principal amount of payday loans, to pay treble or other multiple damages, to pay monetary penalties or to modify or terminate our operations in particular states. We may also be subject to adverse publicity arising out of current or future litigation. Defense of these pending lawsuits is time consuming and expensive, and the defense of these or future lawsuits or proceedings, even if we are successful, could require substantial time and attention of our senior officers and other management personnel that would otherwise be spent on other aspects of our business and could require the expenditure of significant amounts for legal fees and other related costs. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, regulatory actions taken with respect to one financial service that we offer could negatively affect our ability to offer other financial services. For example, if we were the subject of regulatory action related to our check cashing, title loans or other products, that regulatory action could adversely affect our ability to maintain our licenses for payday lending. Moreover, the suspension or revocation of our license or other authorization in one state could adversely affect our ability to maintain licenses in other states. Accordingly, a violation of a law or regulation in otherwise unrelated products or jurisdictions could affect other parts of our business and adversely affect our business and operations as a whole. Judicial decisions, CFPB rule-making or amendments to the Federal Arbitration Act could render the arbitration agreements we use illegal or unenforceable. We include pre-dispute arbitration provisions in our loan agreements. These provisions are designed to allow us to resolve customer disputes through individual arbitration rather than in court. Our arbitration agreements contain certain consumer-friendly features, including terms that require in-person arbitration to take place in locations convenient for the consumer and provide consumers the option to pursue a claim in small claims court. Our arbitration provisions, however, explicitly provide that all arbitrations will be conducted on an individual and not on a class basis. They do not generally have any impact on regulatory enforcement proceedings. While many courts, particularly federal courts, have concluded that the Federal Arbitration Act requires the enforcement of arbitration agreements containing class action waivers of the type we use, in cases involving other parties, an increasing number of courts, including courts in California, Missouri, Washington, New Jersey, and a number of other states, have concluded that arbitration agreements with class action waivers are “unconscionable” and hence unenforceable, particularly where a small dollar amount is in controversy on an individual basis. 23 Table of Contents Congress has considered legislation that would generally limit or prohibit mandatory pre-dispute arbitration in consumer contracts and has adopted such a prohibition with respect to certain mortgage loans and also certain consumer loans to members of the military on active duty and their dependents. Furthermore, Dodd-Frank directs the CFPB to study consumer arbitration and report to Congress, and it authorizes the CFPB to adopt rules limiting or prohibiting consumer arbitration, consistent with the results of its study. Any such rule would apply to arbitration agreements entered into more than six months after the final rule becomes effective (and not to prior arbitration agreements). Any judicial decisions, legislation or other rules or regulations that impair our ability to enter into and enforce pre-dispute consumer arbitration agreements could significantly increase our exposure to class action litigation. Such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The concentration of our revenues and gross profits in Missouri and other certain states could adversely affect us. Our branches operate in 23 states. For the year ended December 31, 2012, branches located in Missouri, California and Kansas represented approximately 42% of our total revenues and 57% of our total gross profit. Revenues from branches located in Missouri and California represented 22% and 15%, respectively, of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. Gross profit from branches in Missouri and California represented 33% and 17%, respectively, of our total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2012. While we believe we have a diverse geographic presence, for the near term we expect that significant revenues and gross profit will continue to be generated by certain states, largely due to the currently prevailing economic, demographic, regulatory, competitive and other conditions in those states. Changes to prevailing economic, demographic, regulatory or any other conditions, including the legislative, regulatory, ballot referendum or litigation risks discussed above, in the markets in which we operate could lead to a reduction in demand for our payday loans, a decline in our revenues or an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, any of which could result in a deterioration of our financial condition. For example, amendments to the South Carolina law and Washington law became effective January 1, 2010. Prior to these new laws in South Carolina and Washington, revenues from each state were approximately 7% and 5%, respectively, of our total revenues. In South Carolina, the maximum loan size was raised, but the new law also created a database to enforce a one loan per customer limit. In Washington, amendments to its law created a database to enforce a one loan per customer limit and to place a usage limit on customers at eight loans per year. Similarly, the Arizona payday loan statutory authority expired by its terms on June 30, 2010 and prior to that event, Arizona represented approximately 8% of total revenues. The changes in the payday lending laws in each of these states had a significant adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. In March 2011, a new payday law became effective in Illinois that imposes customer usage restrictions that will negatively affect revenues and profitability. This type of customer restriction, when passed in other states such as Washington, South Carolina and Kentucky, has resulted in a 30% to 60% decline in annual revenues and a more significant decline in gross profit, depending on the types of alternative products that competitors may offer within the state. The Illinois law provides for an overlap of the previous lending approach with loans issued under the new law for a period of one year, which extended the time period over which the negative effects of the new law occurred. There was an effort in Missouri to place a voter initiative on the statewide ballot in November 2012, which was intended to preclude any lending in the state with an annual rate over 36%. The supporters of the voter initiative did not submit a sufficient number of valid signatures to place the initiative on the ballot in November 2012. However, a similar initiative was submitted to the Missouri Secretary of State in December 2012 for inclusion on the November 2014 ballot subject to the proponents submitting the required number of valid signatures in support of the initiative. If this initiative is placed on the ballot in 2014 and the measure passes, we would be unable to operate our payday loan branches in Missouri and be forced to close those locations in the state. 24 Table of Contents We lack product and business diversification. Accordingly, our future revenues and earnings are more susceptible to fluctuations than a more diversified company. Our primary business activity is offering and servicing payday loans. We also provide certain related services, such as installment loans, check cashing, title loans, credit services, open-end credit, money transfers and money orders, which accounted for approximately 9% of our revenues in 2012. In 2007, we entered the buy here, pay here automobile business, but those revenues accounted for only 13% of our total revenue in 2012. In 2011, we entered the Canadian Internet payday lending market with our acquisition of Direct Credit. That acquisition provides geographic diversification and product distribution diversification; however it does not provide core business diversification. As noted above, with unfavorable legislative and regulatory changes, the revenues in our payday loan business are declining, which has adversely affected our overall revenues and earnings. Our lack of product and business diversification has and is likely to continue to inhibit the opportunities for growth of our business, revenues and profits. Our recent expansion into Canada exposes us to new risks, including risks associated with monitoring and complying with Canadian laws and regulations, foreign currency fluctuation risks, and tax risks, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. On September 30, 2011, we completed our first acquisition of a Canadian payday lending company. In Canada, the Canadian Parliament amended the federal usury law in 2007 to permit each province to assume jurisdiction over and the development of laws and regulations regarding our industry. To date, Ontario, British Columbia, Alberta, Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Nova Scotia have passed legislation regulating short-term consumer lenders and each has, or is in the process of adopting, regulations and rates consistent with those laws. In general, these regulations require lenders to be licensed, set maximum fees and regulate collection practices. Our Canadian subsidiaries currently offer payday loans through the Internet to residents of each of these provinces. There may be future changes to or interpretations of the Canadian federal law or the provincial laws and regulations that could have a detrimental effect on our consumer lending business in Canada. Additionally, there are increased risks to us associated with monitoring and complying with Canadian laws, including the risk that we may overlook laws or regulations with which we are less familiar. Additionally, while the full-year 2012 revenue of our new Canadian subsidiaries is not material to our overall U.S. revenues, we expect our Canadian business to grow, which could expose us to greater risk associated with foreign currency fluctuations and changes in foreign tax rates, both of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not presently plan to hedge our exposure to the Canadian dollar. Furthermore, our financial results may be negatively affected to the extent tax rates in Canada increase or exceed those in the United States or as a result of the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign earnings. Finally, the new Canadian scope of our operations may contribute to increased costs that could negatively impact our results of operations. Because international operations increase the complexity of an organization, we may face additional administrative costs in managing our business, including particularly technology-related costs, than we would if we only conducted operations domestically. In addition, most countries typically impose additional burdens on non-domestic companies through the use of local regulations, tariffs and labor controls. Unexpected changes to the foregoing could negatively affect our results of operations. Our inability to introduce or manage new products efficiently and profitably could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We continue to explore potential new products and businesses to serve our customers and to diversify our business. For example, in 2006 and 2007, we began offering installment loans in Illinois and New 25 Table of Contents Mexico, respectively; and in October 2007, we opened our first buy here, pay here automobile sales and finance lot. New products in Illinois, New Mexico, as well as in Virginia and other states, have been in response to changes in payday loan laws in those states making payday lending unprofitable, and therefore not economically feasible, under current state law or regulations in those states. We also intend to introduce additional services and products in the future in order to continue to diversify our business. In 2012, we introduced new installment loan products (signature loans and auto equity loans) to meet high customer demand for longer-term loan options. These new products are higher-dollar and longer-term installment loans that are centrally underwritten and distributed through our existing branch network. In order to offer new products and to enter into new businesses, we may need to comply with additional regulatory and licensing requirements. Each of these new products and businesses is subject to risk and uncertainty and requires significant investment of time and capital, including additional marketing expenses, legal costs, acquisition costs and other incremental start-up costs. Due to our lack of experience in offering certain new products and businesses, we may not be successful in identifying or introducing any new product or business in a timely or profitable manner. Additionally, loan losses for new products may be higher than we initially expected. For example, we offered an open-end credit product to our Virginia customers for a brief period in 2008 and 2009, before discontinuing the product due to significantly higher than anticipated loan losses (in 2011, we re-introduced this product on a limited basis with various key structural changes). Furthermore, we cannot predict the demand for any new product or service. Our failure to introduce a new product or service efficiently and profitably or low customer demand for any of these new products or services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. General economic conditions affect our revenues and loan losses, and accordingly, our results of operations have been adversely affected by the general economic slowdown. The effect on our business of the recent credit crisis and ongoing economic recession is still continuing. It is difficult to gauge the continuing impact of the 2008-2009 economic recession, the resultant high unemployment and the ongoing economic malaise on our customers and on our business. We have experienced fluctuations in our loan losses and revenues that appear to correspond to broader economic events and trends. Provision for losses is one of our largest operating expenses, constituting 22.5% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012, with payday loan losses constituting most of the losses. During each period, if a customer does not repay a payday loan when due and the check we present for payment to the bank is returned, all accrued fees, interest and outstanding principal are charged off as uncollectible. Any changes in economic factors that adversely affect our customers could result in a higher loan loss experience than anticipated, which could adversely affect our loan charge-offs and operating results. For example, we believe our loan losses increased during the second half of 2007 as a result of the turmoil in the sub-prime lending markets and its ripple effect throughout the United States economy. As another example, we believe that our loan loss experience in third quarter 2005 was adversely affected as a result of an increase in customer bankruptcies prior to a significant change in the bankruptcy laws in October 2005. Similar difficult financial and economic markets and conditions could increase our loan losses and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While the immediate economic crisis of 2008 and 2009 appears to have passed, we believe that the continuing effects of that recession are adversely affecting our customers and their borrowing habits. We experienced lower payday loan demand in 2009 than initially expected, which we believe is attributable in part to the reports nationally of overall consumer efforts to reduce debt. We believe our customers are more sophisticated than portrayed in the media by certain consumer groups and that our customers restrict borrowings in circumstances when risk of non-repayment is increased. We believe this has occurred when gasoline prices have spiked at various times over the last four years and also occurred in fourth quarter 2008 due to the national credit crisis. We believe that lower customer loan demand in 2010, 2011 and 2012 is directly related to the continuing effects of the 2008-09 recession. We believe these adverse economic pressures on our customers are continuing in 2013 and will continue for the foreseeable future, which has had, and is expected to continue to have, an adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. 26 Table of Contents Continuing disruptions in the credit markets from the national credit crisis are negatively affecting the availability and cost of commercial credit, which could adversely affect our future borrowing ability and costs. We believe that disruptions in the capital and credit markets in 2008 and 2009 adversely affected the availability and cost of commercial credit for our business. In addition, uncertainty as to the economic recovery and changing and increased regulation coming out of the recession, including the Dodd-Frank Act, have been additional disruptions to the capital and credit markets for our industry. We believe that these factors directly and adversely affected the terms of our credit agreement, which we renegotiated in fall 2011, approximately 15 months before the maturity of the prior credit agreement. See the discussion immediately below of the terms of the new credit agreement and the requirement that we obtain $3.0 million of subordinated debt as a condition to that new credit agreement. We believe that these factors may also affect our ability to refinance the current revolving credit facility on favorable terms, if at all, and our ability to incur additional indebtedness to fund acquisitions, business ventures and distributions to our stockholders or other corporate purposes. Our current credit facility matures on September 30, 2014. The reduced availability under our new revolving credit facility, or the inability to refinance our current credit facility, could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, including acquisitions, and reducing or eliminating cash dividends on our common stock and our stock repurchase program. From time to time, we utilize borrowings under our credit facility to fund our liquidity and capital needs, and these borrowings, which increase our leverage and reduce our financial flexibility, are subject to various restrictions and covenants. On September 30, 2011, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (current credit agreement) with a syndicate of banks to replace our prior credit agreement. As a condition to entering into the current credit agreement, the lenders required that we issue $3.0 million of subordinated notes. The prior credit agreement provided for a term loan of $50 million maturing December 2012 and a revolving line of credit (including provision permitting the issuance of letters of credit and swingline loans) of up to $45 million. The current credit agreement provides for a term loan of $32 million and a revolving line of credit (including provisions permitting the issuance of letters of credit and swingline loans) in the aggregate principal amount of up to $27 million. We paid off the term loan in December 2012. The terms of our current credit agreement and the subordinated notes include provisions that directly or indirectly affect our ability to repurchase our common stock on the open market or in negotiated transactions, our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock, and our ability to pursue acquisitions or other strategic ventures that would require us to borrow additional amounts. We typically use substantially all of our available cash generated from our operations to repay borrowings on our revolving credit facility on a current basis and to fund the scheduled amortization repayments under the term loan, and we have limited cash balances (other than cash balances needed at the branch level). We expect that a substantial portion of our liquidity needs, including amounts to pay future cash dividends on our common stock, will be funded primarily from borrowings under our revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $2.0 million available for future borrowings under this facility, compared to $12.5 million of availability on the revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2011. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, our borrowings are historically the lowest during the first calendar quarter and increase during the remainder of the year. If our existing sources of liquidity are insufficient to satisfy our financial needs, we may need to raise additional debt or equity in the future. If we were unable to sell equity or raise additional debt, our ability to finance our current operations would likely be adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents Our revolving credit facility contains restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business. Our revolving credit facility contains a number of significant covenants that could adversely affect our business. These covenants restrict our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • create liens; • effect mergers or consolidations; • make investments, acquisitions or dispositions; • pay dividends, repurchase stock or make other payments; and • enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions. As a result, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might further our corporate strategies. Our obligations under the credit facility are guaranteed by each of our existing and future domestic subsidiaries. The borrowings under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by all of our operating subsidiaries (other than the foreign subsidiaries) and are secured by liens on substantially all of our personal property including the personal property of our U.S. subsidiaries. In the event of our insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the lenders under our credit facility and any other then existing debt of ours would be entitled to payment in full from our assets before distributions, if any, were made to our stockholders. The breach of any covenant or obligation in our credit facility will result in a default. If there is an event of default under our credit facility, the lenders could cause all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable. If we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under our credit facility when it comes due, at maturity or upon acceleration, the lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. As of September 30, 2012, we were not in compliance with certain financial covenants (minimum consolidated EBITDA and fixed charge coverage ratio) as set forth in the current credit agreement. On November 7, 2012, we entered into an amendment to the current credit agreement to (i) permanently reduce the minimum consolidated EBITDA requirement through the term of the facility; (ii) reduce the fixed charge coverage ratio requirement for each of the quarters ended September 30, 2012, December 31, 2012 and March 31, 2013; and (iii) allow for the sale of our automobile receivables, subject to approval of terms by the lenders, provided proceeds are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the term loan. We sold our auto receivables in December 2012 and paid off the term loan with the proceeds. We are currently in compliance with these new covenants. We depend on loans and cash management services from banks to operate our business. If banks decide to stop making loans or providing cash management services to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on borrowings under our revolving credit facility to fund loans, capital expenditures, smaller acquisitions, cash dividends and other needs. If consumer banks decide not to lend money to companies in our industry or to us, our ability to borrow at competitive interest rates (or at all), our ability to operate our business and our cash availability would likely be adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents Certain banks have notified us and other companies in the payday loan and check cashing industries that they will no longer maintain bank accounts for these companies due to reputation risks and increased compliance costs of servicing money services businesses and other cash intensive industries. While none of our primary depository banks has requested that we close our bank accounts or placed other restrictions on how we use their services, if any of our larger current or future depository banks were to take such actions, we could face higher costs of managing our cash and limitations on our ability to grow our business, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Media reports and public perception of payday loans as being predatory or abusive could adversely affect our business. Consumer advocacy groups and certain media reports advocate governmental action to prohibit or severely restrict payday loans. The consumer groups and media reports typically focus on the cost to a consumer for this type of loan, which is higher than the interest typically charged by credit card issuers. This difference in credit cost is more significant if a consumer does not promptly repay the loan, but renews, or rolls over, that loan for one or more additional short-term periods. The consumer groups and media reports typically characterize these payday loans as predatory or abusive toward consumers. If this negative characterization of our payday loans becomes widely accepted by consumers, demand for our payday loans could significantly decrease, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Negative perception of our payday loans or other activities could also result in our industry being subject to more restrictive laws and regulations and greater exposure to litigation. If estimates of our loan losses are not adequate to absorb actual losses, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses at levels to cover the estimated incurred losses in the collection of our loan portfolio outstanding at the end of each applicable period. Our methodology for estimating the allowance for payday loan loses utilizes a four-step approach, which reflects the short-term nature of the loan portfolio at each period-end, the historical collection experience in the month following each reporting period-end and any fluctuations in recent general economic conditions. We also maintain allowances for loan losses with respect to our installment and automobile finance loans, which are computed using separate methodologies based on historical data, as well as industry and economic factors. Our allowance for loan losses was $8.3 million on December 31, 2012. Our allowance for loan losses is an estimate, and if actual loan losses are materially greater than our allowance for losses, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. A reduction in the availability or access to sources of used car inventory adversely affects our buy here, pay here business by increasing the costs of vehicles purchased. We acquire vehicles for our Automotive business primarily through auctions, but occasionally through wholesalers, new car dealers and individuals. A reduction in the availability of inventory normally results in an increase in the cost of vehicles, which adversely affects the profit margin of that business. We are limited in our ability to pass on increased costs to our customers, who are normally credit impaired with limited flexibility in the car payments they can afford. Over the past few years, used car inventories have been reduced and our costs of obtaining used vehicles have increased. The increased cost of sales directly and adversely affected our results of operations in 2012 and is expected to continue to adversely affect our gross margins for the Automotive segment in 2013. The overall new car sales volumes in the United States have decreased in the last few years and this has had, and could continue to have, a significant negative effect on the supply of vehicles available to us. 29 Table of Contents The payday loan industry is subject to various local rules and regulations. Changes in these local regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition to state and federal laws and regulations, our business is subject to various local rules and regulations such as local zoning regulations and permit licensing. Any actions taken in the future by local zoning boards or other governing bodies to require special use permits for, or impose other restrictions on, payday lenders could impact our growth strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, several cities in Texas have passed local ordinances governing certain loan provisions including refinancing and extensions. Our Texas locations experienced a 7% decline in revenues and a gross profit decline of 17% in 2012 compared to 2011 largely due to the passage of these ordinances. Any disruption in the availability of our information systems could adversely affect operations at our branches. We rely upon our information systems to manage and operate our branches and business. Each branch is part of an information network that permits us to maintain adequate cash inventory, reconcile cash balances daily, report revenues and loan losses timely and, in Texas, to access the third-party lender’s loan approval system. Our security measures could fail to prevent a disruption in the availability of our information systems and/or our back-up systems could fail to operate properly. Any disruption in the availability of our information systems could adversely affect our operations and our results of operations. Our headquarters is currently located at a single location in Overland Park, Kansas. Our information systems and administrative and management processes are primarily provided to our regions and branches from this location, which could be disrupted if a catastrophic event, such as a tornado, power outage or act of terror, destroyed or severely damaged the headquarters. While we maintain redundant facilities in Texas with a third-party vendor, any catastrophic event could nonetheless adversely affect our operations and our results of operations. Improper disclosure of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. We store and process large amounts of personally identifiable information, that consists primarily of customer information. There have been widespread reports recently of hackers penetrating the firewalls of major financial institutions and technology companies for apparent purpose of obtaining personally identifiable information and to disrupt the technologies and operations of those global companies. While we may not be as visible of a target to foreign or domestic hackers, our resources available to protect our systems and our customer information are substantially less than the resources of the national and global companies that are reporting they have been hacked. It is possible that our security controls over personal data, our training of employees, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. The goal of our enterprise risk management efforts is not to eliminate all systemic risk. We have devoted significant time and energy to develop our enterprise risk management program and expect to continue to do so in the future. The goal of enterprise risk management is not to eliminate all risk, but rather to identify, assess and rank risk. Nonetheless, our efforts to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective. Many of our methods of managing risk and exposures depend upon the implementation of state regulations and other policies or procedures affecting our customers or employees. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective in managing these risks. 30 Table of Contents While many of the risks that we monitor and manage are described in this Risk Factors section of this report, our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently described in this section or known to us or that we currently consider immaterial to our operations. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. If they fluctuate in the future, the market price of our common stock could also fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future. If they do so, our quarterly revenues and operating results may be difficult to forecast. It is possible that our future quarterly results of operations will not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. This could cause a material drop in the market price of our common stock. Our business will continue to be affected by a number of factors, including the various risk factors set forth in this section, any one of which could substantially affect our results of operations for a particular fiscal quarter. Our quarterly results of operations can vary due to: • fluctuations in payday and installment loan demand as well as changes in the demand for used automobiles; • fluctuations in our loan loss experience; • regulatory and legislative activity restricting our business; • perceptions regarding possible future regulatory or legislative changes to our business; • the initiation, management and/or resolution of significant legal actions; and • changes in broad economic factors, such as energy prices, average hourly wage rates, inflation or bankruptcy. We have a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets, which is subject to periodic review and testing for impairment. A significant portion of our total assets at December 31, 2012 is comprised of goodwill. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we review the recoverability of goodwill on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events occur or circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. We assess the fair value of our reporting units based on weighted average of valuations based on market multiples and discounted cash flow estimates. Unfavorable trends in our industry and unfavorable events or disruptions to our operations can affect these multiples and estimates. As a result of our annual impairment test of goodwill performed as of December 31, 2012 we recorded a $1.7 million non-cash impairment charge to goodwill for our E-Lending reporting unit. In addition, we performed an impairment test on our indefinite lived intangible assets and determined that the trade name associated with the ECA acquisition was impaired and recorded a charge of $600,000. Significant impairment charges, although not affecting cash flow, could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. The market price of our common stock may be volatile even if our quarterly results do not fluctuate significantly. Even if we report stable or increased earnings, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. There are a number of factors, beyond earnings fluctuations, that can affect the market price of our common stock, including the following: • the introduction, passage or adoption of state or federal legislation or regulation that could adversely affect our business; • the announcement of court decisions adverse to us or our industry; 31 Table of Contents • a decrease in market demand for our stock; • downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates of our future earnings; • announcements of new products or services developed or offered by us; • the degree of customer acceptance of new products or services offered by us; and • general market conditions and other economic factors. The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and is likely to be volatile in the future. When our common stock is a “penny stock,” you may have difficulty selling our common stock in the secondary trading market. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share. Additionally, if the equity security is not registered or authorized on a national securities exchange or NASDAQ, the equity security also would constitute a “penny stock.” These regulations require the delivery, prior to certain transactions involving a penny stock, of a risk disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with it. Disclosure is also required in certain circumstances regarding compensation payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. In addition, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stocks. Since December 2008, our common stock has frequently traded below $5.00 per share and has, from time to time, fallen within the definition of penny stock. Any time that our common stock is classified as a “penny stock” for purposes of these regulations, the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and the ability of stockholders to sell our common stock in the secondary market will be limited. As a result, the market liquidity for our common stock may be adversely affected by the application of these penny stock rules. Competition in the retail financial services industry is intense and could cause us to lose market share and revenues. We believe that the primary competitive factors in the payday loan industry are branch location, customer service and availability to transact through online or mobile applications. In addition to storefront payday loan locations, we also currently compete with services, such as overdraft protection offered by traditional financial institutions, payday loan-type products offered by some banks and credit unions, and other financial service entities and retail businesses that offer payday loans or other similar financial services, as well as a growing Internet-based payday loan segment. Some of our competitors have larger and more established customer bases and substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result of competition from our direct competitors and competing products and services, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline, thereby affecting our earnings and potential for growth. If we lose key managers or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the members of our senior management, particularly Darrin J. Andersen, our President and Chief Executive Officer. We believe that the loss of the services of Mr. Andersen or any or our other senior officers could adversely affect our business. Our efforts to expand into other businesses and product lines also depend upon our ability to attract and retain additional skilled management personnel for those businesses or product lines. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. To the extent that we are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer. 32 Table of Contents Regular turnover among our branch managers and branch-level employees makes it more difficult for us to operate our branches and increases our costs of operation. We experience high turnover among our branch managers and our branch-level employees. In 2012, we sustained approximately 25% turnover among our branch managers and approximately 62% turnover among our branch-level employees. Turnover interferes with implementation of branch operating strategies. High turnover in the future would perpetuate these operating pressures and increase our operating costs. Additionally, high turnover creates challenges for us in maintaining high levels of employee awareness of and compliance with our internal procedures and external regulatory compliance requirements. Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders may be able to exert significant control over our strategic direction. Our directors and executive officers own or have the power to vote approximately 56% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2012. Don Early, our Chairman of the Board, and Mary Lou Early, our Vice Chairman of the Board, owned approximately 47.4% directly and 1.4% indirectly of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2012. The election of each director requires a plurality of the shares voting for directors at a meeting of stockholders at which a quorum is present. Approval of a significant corporate transaction, such as a merger or consolidation of the company, a sale of all or substantially all of its assets or a dissolution of the company, requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Other actions requiring stockholder approval require the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares of common stock voting on the matter, provided that a quorum is present. A quorum requires the presence of a majority of the shares outstanding. As a result, one or more stockholders owning a relatively low percentage of the outstanding shares of our common stock could, acting together with Mr. and Mrs. Early, control all matters requiring our stockholders’ approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. As a result, this concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a change in control or change in board composition, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of the company or its assets and might reduce the market price of our common stock. Future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market could depress our stock price. As of December 31, 2012, our officers and directors held approximately 9.9 million shares of common stock, a substantial majority of which are “restricted securities” under the Securities Act and are eligible for future sale in the public market at prescribed times pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or otherwise. In addition, Mr. Early, who directly owns approximately 43.5% of our outstanding shares, has demand registration rights, which permit him to require the company to register all or any part of those shares for resale by Mr. Early. Sales of a significant number of these shares of common stock in the public market could reduce the market price of our common stock. The daily trading volume in our stock, since our initial public offering in July 2004, has been low, and is frequently under 10,000 shares traded in a day. Accordingly, the sale of even a relatively small number of shares by our officers or directors could reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, Mr. Early’s heirs or his estate may be required to sell a significant portion of that stock upon his death. We do not maintain key man life insurance on the life of Mr. Early. If a substantial block of our common stock were sold by Mr. Early’s heirs or estate, it would likely significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. 33 Table of Contents Our anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of our company even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws as well as provisions of Kansas law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company, even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors without a stockholder vote to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We can redeem common stock from a stockholder who is or becomes a disqualified person. Federal and state laws and regulations applicable to providers of payday loans may now, or in the future, restrict direct or indirect ownership or control of providers of payday loan services by disqualified persons (such as convicted felons). Our articles of incorporation provide that we may redeem shares of our common stock to the extent deemed necessary or advisable, in the judgment of our board of directors, to prevent the loss, or to secure the reinstatement or renewal, of any license or permit from any governmental agency that is conditioned upon some or all of the holders of our common stock possessing prescribed qualifications or not possessing prescribed disqualifications. The redemption price will be the average of the daily closing sale prices per share of our common stock for the 30 consecutive trading days immediately prior to the redemption date fixed by our board of directors. At the discretion of our board of directors, the redemption price may be paid in cash, debt or equity securities or a combination of cash and debt or equity securities. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 