Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our LLC interests involves a number of risks. Any of these risks could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and a corresponding decline in the market price of the LLC interests. Risks Related to Our Business The current economic recession and adverse equity and credit market conditions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our liquidity or our ability to obtain credit on acceptable terms. The equity and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity. In response to recent market disruptions, legislators and financial regulators implemented and have proposed a number of mechanisms designed to add stability and liquidity to the financial markets. The overall effects of these and other legislative and regulatory efforts on the financial markets are uncertain, and they may not have the intended stabilization effects. Should these initiatives fail or should credit and financial market conditions continue to experience disruption, our ability to raise equity or obtain capital, including to repay or refinance credit facilities at maturity, pay significant capital expenditures or fund growth, is likely to be costly and/or impaired. Our access to debt financing in particular will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit history and credit capacity, as well as the historical performance of our businesses and lender perceptions of their and our financial prospects. In the event we are unable to obtain debt financing, particularly as significant credit facilities mature, our internal sources of liquidity may not be sufficient. The current economic recession also increases our counterparty risk, particularly in those businesses whose revenues are determined under multi-year contracts, such as IMTT and our district energy business. In this environment, we would expect to see increases in counterparty defaults and/or bankruptcies, which could result in an increase in bad debt expense and may cause our revenues to decline. The volatility in the financial markets makes projections regarding future obligations under pension plans difficult. Two of our businesses, TGC and IMTT, have defined benefit retirement plans. Future funding obligations under those plans depend in large part on the future performance of plan assets and the mix of investment assets. Our defined benefit plans hold a significant amount of equity securities as well as fixed income securities. If the market values of these securities decline further or if interest rates decline, our pension expense and cash funding requirements would increase and, as a result, could materially adversely affect our results and liquidity. Adverse developments in the economy in general or in the aviation industry that results in less air traffic at airports we service would have a material adverse impact on our business. A large part of our revenue is derived from fuel sales and other services provided to general aviation customers and, to a lesser extent, commercial air travelers. A sustained economic downturn could reduce the level of air travel generally, adversely affecting our airport services and airport parking business. General aviation travel is more expensive than alternative modes of travel. Consequently, during periods of economic downturn, FBO customers are more likely to travel by less expensive means. In particular, the recent substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption in the global credit and other financial markets have resulted in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or government assistance to, several major domestic and international financial and industrial institutions. These events have also led to criticism by regulators, shareholders and the public in general over the purchase and/or use of corporate jets, which may continue during the current economic downturn and possibly longer. These market developments and the potential for a continuing economic downturn have had a significant impact on the activity levels and customer price sensitivity of many corporate customers of our airport services business, which has resulted in significant declines in the gross profit of this business. If recent or proposed legislative or regulatory initiatives fail to stimulate the economy and stabilize the credit and financial markets or negative sentiment regarding corporate jet usage continues or increases, we may see continued declines in volumes of fuel sold, which would materially adversely affect the results of this business and 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS which could cause it to fail to meet the financial covenants of its debt arrangements and allow its lenders to declare its entire indebtedness immediately due and payable. Air travel and air traffic volume can also be affected by events that have nationwide and industry-wide implications, such as the events of September 11, 2001, as well as local circumstances. Events such as wars, outbreaks of disease such as SARS, and terrorist activities in the United States or overseas may reduce air travel. In addition, commercial traffic at an airport at which we have parking facilities may be reduced if airlines reduce the number of flights at that airport. Local circumstances include downturns in the general economic conditions of the area where an airport is located or other situations in which our major FBO customers relocate their home base or preferred fuelling stop to alternative locations. In addition, changes to regulations governing the tax treatment relating to general aviation travel, either for businesses or individuals may cause a reduction in general aviation travel. Increased environmental regulation restricting or increasing the cost of aviation activities could also cause our revenue to decline. Our businesses have substantial indebtedness, which could inhibit their operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2008, on a consolidated basis, we had total long-term debt outstanding of $1,529.1 million, $1,460.1 million of which is at the operating business level, plus additional availability under existing credit facilities, including $69.0 million under the MIC Inc. revolving credit facility. IMTT also has a significant level of debt. The terms of these debt arrangements generally require compliance with significant operating and financial covenants. The ability of each of our businesses or investments to meet their respective debt service obligations and to repay their outstanding indebtedness will depend primarily upon cash produced by that business. This indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • limiting the payment of dividends and distributions to us; • increasing the risk that our subsidiaries might not generate sufficient cash to service their indebtedness; • limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our businesses because our subsidiaries must dedicate a substantial portion of their operating cash flow to service their debt; • limiting our, our subsidiaries' and IMTT’s ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt services requirements, execution of our internal growth strategy, acquisitions or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures or adverse changes in government regulation. If we are unable to comply with the terms of any of our various debt agreements, we may be required to refinance a portion or all of the related debt or obtain additional financing. As discussed further herein, we may not be able to refinance or obtain additional financing because of our high levels of debt and debt incurrence restrictions under our debt agreements or because of adverse conditions in credit markets generally. We also may be forced to default on our various debt obligations if cash flow from the relevant operating business is insufficient and refinancing or additional financing is unavailable, and, as a result, the relevant debt holders may accelerate the maturity of their obligations. As discussed below, we currently anticipate that our airport parking business will not be able to repay or refinance its indebtedness maturing in 2009. If any of our businesses or investments were unable to repay its debts when due, it would become insolvent. Many of our property leases, particularly in our airport services business, may be terminated in the event of insolvency, which could impair our ability to achieve a restructuring plan for that business if those leases are in fact terminated. 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our total assets include a substantial amount of goodwill and intangible assets. The write-off of a significant portion of intangible assets would negatively affect our reported earnings. Our total assets reflect a substantial amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. At December 31, 2008, goodwill and other intangible assets, net, represented approximately 55.2% of total assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets were primarily recognized as a result of the acquisitions of our businesses and investments. Other intangible assets consist primarily of airport operating rights, tradenames and customer relationships. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there has been an impairment in the value of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives. If the carrying value of the tested asset exceeds its estimated fair value, impairment is deemed to have occurred. In this event, the amount is written down to fair value. Under current accounting rules, this would result in a charge to reported earnings. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill or other intangible assets would negatively affect our reported earnings and total capitalization, which could be material. As discussed elsewhere, the decline in our stock price, particularly over the latter part of 2008, has caused our book value to exceed our market capitalization. As a result, we have booked non-cash impairment charges to goodwill, property, equipment, land and leasehold improvements and intangible assets of $253.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, or SFAS No. 142, and Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 144, “Long-Lived Assets”. A portion of the non-cash impairment charges was reflected in the earnings for both our airport services and airport parking businesses. If the market price of our LLC interests continues to decline, or if conditions in any of our businesses deteriorate, we may be required to recognize further impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets associated with these businesses. If interest rates or margins increase, the cost of refinancing debt and servicing our debt will increase, reducing our profitability and ability to pay dividends. We have substantial indebtedness with maturities ranging from 9 months to 18 years, of which $201 million matures during 2009. Refinancing this debt may result in substantially higher interest rates or margins or substantially more restrictive covenants. Either event may limit operational flexibility or reduce dividends and/or distributions from our operating businesses to us, which would have an adverse impact on our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. We also cannot assure you that we or the other owners of any of our businesses will be able to make capital contributions to repay some or all of the debt if required. In addition, we do not currently have any interest rate hedges in place to cover any borrowings under our MIC Inc. revolving credit facility. If we draw down on our MIC Inc. revolving credit facility, an increase in interest rates would directly reduce our profitability and cash flows. Our MIC Inc. revolving credit facility matures in March 2010 and we expect to repay or refinance any borrowing outstanding at that time and, if available on acceptable terms, enter into a similar facility. An increase in interest rates or margins at that time may significantly increase the cost of any repayment or the terms associated with any refinancing. Our holding company structure may limit our ability to reduce the level of our outstanding debt or make regular distributions in the future to our shareholders because we will rely on the cash flows and distributions from our businesses. The Company is a holding company with no operations. Therefore, it is dependent upon the ability of our businesses and investments to pay dividends and make distributions to the company to enable it to meet its expenses, reduce outstanding debt at the holding company level or at other businesses and to make distributions to shareholders in the future. The ability of our operating subsidiaries and the businesses in which we will hold investments to make distributions to the company is subject to limitations based on their operating performance, the terms of their debt agreements and the applicable laws of their respective jurisdictions. In addition, the ability of each business to reduce its outstanding debt will be similarly limited by its operating performance, as discussed below and in Part 1, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” If, as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we are unable to receive sufficient dividends and/or distributions from our businesses, we may be limited in our ability to reduce the level of our outstanding debt and declare distributions on our LLC interests. 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may not be able to successfully fund future acquisitions due to the unavailability of debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, which could impede the implementation of our acquisition strategy and negatively impact our business. One component of our strategy over the long term is the pursuit of growth through selective acquisitions. In order to make acquisitions, we will generally require funding from external sources. Since the timing and size of acquisitions cannot be readily predicted, we may need to be able to obtain funding on short notice to benefit fully from attractive opportunities. Sufficient funding for an acquisition may not be available on short notice or may not be available on terms acceptable to us, particularly in light of the ongoing difficulties in the credit and capital markets. Furthermore, the level of our subsidiary indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional financing at the corporate holding company level. In addition to debt financing, our strategy over the long term is to fund or refinance a portion of the consideration for future acquisitions through the issuance of additional LLC interests. If our LLC interests do not have a sufficient per share market value, issuance of new LLC interests may not be economically attractive or, if issued regardless, may result in significant dilution of our then-existing shareholders. In addition, issuances of new LLC interests, either privately or publicly, may occur at a discount to the price of our LLC interests on the NYSE at the time. Our equity financing activities may cause the market price of our stock to decline. Alternatively, we may not be able to complete the issuance of the required amount of LLC interests on short notice or at all due to a lack of investor demand for the LLC interests at prices that we find acceptable. An inability to fund acquisitions on acceptable terms or at all would prevent us from pursuing our acquisition strategy. Our ability to successfully implement our growth strategy and to pay and grow distributions over the long term depends on our ability to successfully implement our acquisition strategy and manage the growth of our business. A major component of our strategy over the long term is to acquire additional infrastructure businesses both within the sectors in which we currently operate and in sectors where we currently have no presence. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses in a timely manner, failure of the acquired business to implement strategic initiatives we set for it, achieve expected synergies and/or achieve expected results, failure to identify material risks or liabilities associated with the acquired business prior to its acquisition, diversion of management's attention and internal resources away from the management of existing businesses and operations, and the failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business. We expect to face significant competition for acquisition opportunities, and some of our competitors may have greater financial resources or access to financing on more favorable terms than we will. This competition may limit our acquisition opportunities, lead to higher acquisition prices or both. We cannot assure you that we will benefit from our relationship with the Macquarie Group to help us make or finance acquisitions. The successful implementation of our acquisition strategy to date, particularly acquisitions in the airport services business and of a 50% interest in IMTT, has resulted in the rapid growth of our business and places significant demands on management, administrative, operational and financial resources. We have devoted significant resources to integrating acquired businesses of which most, if not all, would have been privately owned and not subject to financial and disclosure requirements and controls applicable to U.S. public companies. We have and may in the future expend significant time and resources to develop and implement effective systems and procedures, including accounting and financial reporting systems, for these acquired businesses. Furthermore, other than our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the personnel of Macquarie’s Capital Funds division performing services for us under the management services agreement may work on matters unrelated to the Company and its businesses, which may result in a further diversion of management time and resources. Our ability to manage our growth will depend on our maintaining and allocating an appropriate level of internal resources, information systems and controls throughout our business. Our inability to successfully implement our growth strategy or successfully manage growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow and ability to pay distributions on our LLC interests. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS We own, and may acquire in the future, investments in which we share voting control with third parties and, consequently, our ability to exercise significant influence over the business or level of their distributions to us may be limited. We own 50% of IMTT and may acquire less than majority ownership in other businesses in the future. Our ability to influence the management of jointly controlled businesses, and the ability of these businesses to continue operating without disruption, depends on our reaching agreement with our co-investors and reconciling investment and performance objectives for these businesses. To the extent that we are unable to agree with co-investors regarding the business and operations of the relevant investment, the performance of the investment and level of distributions to us are likely to suffer, and could have a material adverse effect on our results and our ability to raise capital or pay distributions on our LLC interests. Furthermore, we may from time to time own non-controlling interests in investments. Management and controlling shareholders of these investments may develop different objectives than we have and may not make distributions to us at levels that we had anticipated. Our inability to exercise significant influence over the operations, strategies and policies of non-controlled investments means that decisions could be made that could adversely affect our results and our ability to generate cash and pay distributions on our LLC interests. Our business is dependent on our relationships, on a contractual and regulatory level, with government entities that may have significant leverage over us. Government entities may be influenced by political considerations to take actions adverse to us. Our business generally is, and will continue to be, subject to substantial regulation by governmental agencies. In addition, our business relies on obtaining and maintaining government permits, licenses, concessions, leases or contracts. Government entities, due to the wide-ranging scope of their authority, have significant leverage over us in their contractual and regulatory relationships with us that they may exercise in a manner that causes us delays in the operation of our business or pursuit of our strategy, or increased administrative expense. Furthermore, government permits, licenses, concessions, leases and contracts are generally very complex, which may result in periods of non-compliance, or disputes over interpretation or enforceability. If we fail to comply with these regulations or contractual obligations, we could be subject to monetary penalties or we may lose our rights to operate the affected business, or both. Where our ability to operate an infrastructure business is subject to a concession or lease from the government, the concession or lease may restrict our ability to operate the business in a way that maximizes cash flows and profitability. Further, our ability to grow our current and future businesses will often require consent of numerous government regulators. Increased regulation restricting the ownership or management of U.S. assets, particularly infrastructure assets, by non-U.S. persons, given the non-U.S. ultimate ownership of our Manager, may limit our ability to pursue acquisitions. Any such regulation may also limit our Manager's ability to continue to manage our operations, which could cause disruption to our business and a decline in our performance. In addition, any required government consents may be costly to seek and we may not be able to obtain them. Failure to obtain any required consents could limit our ability to achieve our growth strategy. Our contracts with government entities may also contain clauses more favorable to the government counterparty than a typical commercial contract. For instance, a lease, concession or general service contract may enable the government to terminate the agreement without requiring them to pay adequate compensation. In addition, government counterparties also may have the discretion to change or increase regulation of our operations, or implement laws or regulations affecting our operations, separate from any contractual rights they may have. Governments have considerable discretion in implementing regulations that could impact these businesses. Because our businesses provide basic, everyday services, and face limited competition, governments may be influenced by political considerations to take actions that may hinder the efficient and profitable operation of our businesses and investments. Governmental agencies may determine the prices we charge and may be able to restrict our ability to operate our business to maximize profitability. Where our businesses or investments are sole or predominant service providers in their respective service areas and provide services that are essential to the community, they are likely to be subject to rate regulation by governmental agencies that will determine the prices they may charge. We may also face fees or other charges imposed by government agencies that increase our costs and over which we have no control. We may 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS be subject to increases in fees or unfavorable price determinations that may be final with no right of appeal or that, despite a right of appeal, could result in our profits being negatively affected. In addition, we may have very little negotiating leverage in establishing contracts with government entities, which may decrease the prices that we otherwise might be able to charge or the terms upon which we provide products or services. Businesses and investments we acquire in the future may also be subject to rate regulation or similar negotiating limitations. Our businesses are subject to environmental risks that may impact our future profitability. Our businesses (including businesses in which we invest) are subject to numerous statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection. Our airport services and airport parking businesses are subject to environmental protection requirements relating to the storage, transport, pumping and transfer of fuel, and our district energy business is subject to requirements relating mainly to its handling of significant amounts of hazardous materials. Our gas production and distribution business is subject to risks and hazards associated with the refining, handling, storage and transportation of combustible products. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury, loss of life, damage or destruction of property and equipment, and environmental damage. Any losses we face could be greater than insurance levels maintained by our businesses, which could have an adverse effect on their and our financial results. In addition, disruptions to physical assets could reduce our ability to serve customers and adversely affect sales and cash flows. IMTT's operations in particular are subject to complex, stringent and expensive environmental regulation and future compliance costs are difficult to estimate with certainty. IMTT also faces risks relating to the handling and transportation of significant amounts of hazardous materials. Failure to comply with regulations or other claims may give rise to interruptions in operations and civil or criminal penalties and liabilities that could adversely affect the profitability of this business and the distributions it makes to us, as could significant unexpected compliance costs. Further, these rules and regulations are subject to change and compliance with any changes could result in a restriction of the activities of our businesses, significant capital expenditures and/or increased ongoing operating costs. A number of the properties owned by IMTT have been subject to environmental contamination in the past and require remediation for which IMTT is liable. These remediation obligations exist principally at IMTT's Bayonne and Lemont facilities and could cost more than anticipated or could be incurred earlier than anticipated or both. In addition, IMTT may discover additional environmental contamination at its Bayonne, Lemont or other facilities that may require remediation at significant cost to IMTT. Further, the past contamination of the properties owned by IMTT, including by former owners or operators of such properties, could result in remediation obligations, personal injury, property damage, environmental damage or similar claims by third parties. We may also be required to address other prior or future environmental contamination, including soil and groundwater contamination that results from the spillage of fuel, hazardous materials or other pollutants. Under various federal, state, local and foreign environmental statutes, rules and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for noncompliance with applicable environmental and health and safety requirements and for the costs of investigation, monitoring, removal or remediation of hazardous materials. These laws often impose liability, whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous materials. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of those materials at the disposal or treatment facility, whether or not that facility is or ever was owned or operated by that person and whether or not the original disposal or treatment activity accorded with all regulatory requirements. The presence of hazardous materials on a property could result in personal injury, loss of life, damage or destruction of property and equipment, environmental damage and similar claims by third parties that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating income. We may face a greater exposure to terrorism than other companies because of the nature of our businesses and investments. We believe that infrastructure businesses face a greater risk of terrorist attack than other businesses, particularly those businesses that have operations within the immediate vicinity of metropolitan and suburban areas. Specifically, because of the combustible nature of the products of our gas production and distribution 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS business and consumer reliance on these products for basic services, the business’ SNG plant, transmission pipelines, barges and storage facilities may be at greater risk for terrorism attacks than other businesses, which could affect its operations significantly. Any terrorist attacks that occur at or near our business locations would likely cause significant harm to our employees and assets. As a result of the terrorist attacks in New York on September 11, 2001, insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events. A terrorist attack that makes use of our property, or property under our control, may result in liability far in excess of available insurance coverage. In addition, any further terrorist attack, regardless of location, could cause a disruption to our business and a decline in earnings. Furthermore, it is likely to result in an increase in insurance premiums and a reduction in coverage, which could cause our profitability to suffer. We are dependent on certain key personnel, and the loss of key personnel, or the inability to retain or replace qualified employees, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate our businesses on a stand-alone basis, relying on existing management teams for day-to-day operations. Consequently, our operational success, as well as the success of our internal growth strategy, will be dependent on the continued efforts of the management teams of our businesses, who have extensive experience in the day-to-day operations of these businesses. Furthermore, we will likely be dependent on the operating management teams of businesses that we may acquire in the future. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to retain or replace qualified employees, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our income may be affected adversely if additional compliance costs are required as a result of new safety, health or environmental regulation. Our businesses and investments are subject to federal, state and local safety, health and environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations affect all aspects of their operations and are frequently modified. There is a risk that any one of our businesses or investments may not be able to comply with some aspect of these laws and regulations, resulting in fines or penalties. Additionally, if new laws and regulations are adopted or if interpretations of existing laws and regulations change, we could be required to increase capital spending and incur increased operating expenses in order to comply. Because the regulatory environment frequently changes, we cannot predict when or how we may be affected by such changes. A significant and sustained increase in the price of oil could have a negative impact on the revenue of a number of our businesses. A significant and sustained increase in the price of oil could have a negative impact on the profitability of a number of our businesses. Higher prices for jet fuel could result in less use of aircraft by general aviation customers, which would have a negative impact on the profitability of our airport services business. Higher prices for jet fuel will increase the cost of traveling by commercial aviation, which could result in lower enplanements at the airports where our airport parking business operates and therefore less patronage of our parking facilities and lower revenue. Higher fuel prices could increase the cost of power to our businesses generally which they may not be able to fully pass on to customers. Risks Related to Our Airport Services Business Current economic conditions and increased pricing competition in our airport services business may have an adverse effect on our market share and fuel margins, causing a decline in the profitability of that business. Some of our competitors in our airport services business are pursuing more aggressive pricing strategies. These competitors operate FBOs at number of airports where we operate or at airports near where we operate. This competition, combined with the continuation or worsening of current economic conditions, may result in increased focus on cost among our customers and, consequently, a decline in corporate jet usage and increased price sensitivity. These factors may cause our volumes of fuel sales and market share to decline and may result in increased margin pressure, adversely affecting the profitability of this business. 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our airport services business is subject to a variety of competitive pressures, and the actions of competitors may have a material adverse effect on the revenue of our airport services business. FBO operators at a particular airport compete based on a number of factors, including location of the facility relative to runways and street access, service, value added features, reliability and price. Many of our FBOs compete with one or more FBOs at their respective airports, and, to a lesser extent, with FBOs at nearby airports. Furthermore, leases related to our FBO operations may be subject to competitive bidding at the end of their term. Some present and potential competitors have or may obtain greater financial and marketing resources than we do, which may negatively impact our ability to compete at each airport or for lease renewal. Our FBOs do not have the right to be the sole provider of FBO services at any of our FBO locations. The authority responsible for each airport has the ability to grant other FBO leases at the airport and new competitors could be established at those FBO locations. The addition of new competitors is particularly likely if we are seen to be earning significant profits from these FBO operations. Any such actions, if successful, may reduce, or impair our ability to increase, the revenue of the FBO business. The termination for cause or convenience of one or more of the FBO leases would damage our airport services business significantly. Our airport services revenue is derived from long-term leases at 68 airports and one heliport. If we default on the terms and conditions of our leases, including upon an insolvency, the relevant authority may terminate the lease without compensation. Additionally, our leases at Chicago Midway, Philadelphia, North East Philadelphia, New Orleans International and Orange County airports and the Metroport 34th Street Heliport in New York City, representing approximately 13% of our airport service business gross profit in 2008, allow the relevant authority to terminate the lease at their convenience. In each case, we would then lose the income from that location and potentially the expected returns from prior capital expenditures. We would also likely be in default under the loan agreements of our airport services business and be obliged to repay our lenders a portion or all of our outstanding loan amount. The TSA is considering new regulation which could impair the relative convenience of general aviation and adversely affect demand for our airport services business. The TSA has proposed new regulations known as the Large Aircraft Security Program (LASP), which would require all U.S. operators of general aviation aircraft exceeding 12,500 pounds maximum take-off weight to implement security programs that are subject to TSA audit. In addition, the proposed regulation would require airports servicing these aircraft to implement security programs involving additional security measures, including passenger and baggage screening. We believe these new regulations, if implemented, will affect many of our customers and all of the airports at which we operate. These rules, if adopted, could decrease the convenience and attractiveness of general aviation travel relative to commercial air travel and, therefore, may adversely impact demand for our airport services business. Risks Related to IMTT IMTT's business is dependent on the demand for bulk liquid storage capacity in the locations where it operates. Demand for IMTT's bulk liquid storage is largely a function of U.S. domestic demand for chemical, petroleum and vegetable and animal oil products and, less significantly, the extent to which such products are imported into and/or exported out of the United States. U.S. domestic demand for chemical, petroleum and V&A products is influenced by a number of factors, including economic conditions, growth in the U.S. economy, the pricing of chemical, petroleum and V&A products and their substitutes. Import and export volumes of these products to and from the United States are influenced by demand and supply imbalances in the United States and overseas, the cost of producing chemical, petroleum and V&A products domestically vis-à-vis overseas and the cost of transporting the products between the United States and overseas destinations. In addition, changes in government regulations that affect imports and exports of bulk chemical, petroleum and V&A products, including the imposition of surcharges or taxes on imported or exported 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS products, could adversely affect import and export volumes to and from the United States. A reduction in demand for bulk liquid storage, particularly in the New York Harbor or the lower Mississippi River, as a consequence of lower U.S. domestic demand for, or imports/exports of, chemical, petroleum or V&A products, could lead to a decline in storage rates and tankage volumes rented by IMTT and adversely affect IMTT's revenue and profitability and the distributions it makes to us. IMTT's business could be adversely affected by a substantial increase in bulk liquid storage capacity in the locations where it operates. An increase in available bulk liquid storage capacity in excess of growth in demand for such storage in the key locations in which IMTT operates, such as New York Harbor and the lower Mississippi River, could result in overcapacity and a decline in storage rates and tankage volumes rented by IMTT and could adversely affect IMTT's revenue and profitability and the distributions it makes to us. IMTT's business could be adversely affected by the insolvency of one or more large customers. IMTT has a number of customers that together generate a material proportion of IMTT’s revenue and gross profit. In 2008, IMTT’s ten largest customers by revenue generated approximately 40.0% of total revenues. The insolvency of any of these large customers could result in an increase in unutilized storage capacity in the absence of such capacity being rented to other customers and adversely affect IMTT’s revenue and profitability and the distributions it makes to us. IMTT's business involves hazardous activities, is partly located in a region with a history of significant adverse weather events and is potentially a target for terrorist attacks. We cannot assure you that IMTT is, or will be in the future, adequately insured against all such risks. The transportation, handling and storage of petroleum, chemical and V&A products are subject to the risk of spills, leakage, contamination, fires and explosions. Any of these events may result in loss of revenue, loss of reputation or goodwill, fines, penalties and other liabilities. In certain circumstances, such events could also require IMTT to halt or significantly alter operations at all or part of the facility at which the event occurred. Consistent with industry practice, IMTT carries insurance to protect against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of the business; however, the limits of IMTT's coverage mean IMTT cannot insure against all risks. In addition, because IMTT's facilities are not insured against loss from terrorism or acts of war, such an attack that significantly damages one or more of IMTT's major facilities would have a negative impact on IMTT's future cash flow and profitability and the distributions it makes to us. Further, losses sustained by insurers during hurricanes in the U.S. Gulf region may result in lower insurance coverage and increased insurance premiums for IMTT's properties in Louisiana. Risks Related to Our Gas Production and Distribution Business Our gas production and distribution business' operating results are affected by Hawaii's economy. The primary driver of Hawaii's economy is tourism. A significant portion of the sales of our gas production and distribution business is generated from businesses that rely on tourism as their primary source of revenue. These businesses include hotels and resorts, restaurants and laundries, comprising nearly half of sales. As a result of the current economic climate, Hawaii has recently experienced significant declines in levels of tourism which has affected the local economy generally and has caused declines in the business’ volume of gas sold. If the level of tourism fails to improve or continues to decline, the business’ commercial contribution margin and profitability could be materially adversely affected. In addition, a reduction in new housing starts and commercial development may reduce growth opportunities for the business. Our gas production and distribution business relies on its synthetic natural gas, or SNG, plant, including its transmission pipeline, for a significant portion of its sales. Disruptions at that facility could adversely affect the business’ ability to serve customers. Disruptions at the SNG plant resulting from mechanical or operational problems or power failures could affect the ability of our gas production and distribution business to produce SNG. Most of the regulated sales on Oahu are of SNG and are produced at this plant. Disruptions to the primary and redundant production systems would have a significant adverse effect on sales and cash flows. 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our gas production and distribution business depends heavily on the two oil refineries, located on the island of Oahu, for both liquefied petroleum gas and the primary feedstock for its SNG plant. Disruptions or shutdowns at either of those refineries may adversely affect the operations of our gas production and distribution business. Our gas production and distribution business comprises the manufacture of SNG and the distribution of SNG and liquefied petroleum gas, or LPG. Any feedstock, SNG or LPG supply disruptions or shutdowns that limit its ability to manufacture and deliver gas to customers would adversely affect the cost of our operations. Increased costs could result from an inability to source feedstock at favorable costs, extended unavailability of one or both of the Oahu refineries or disruption to crude oil supplies or feedstock to Hawaii resulting in higher reliance on imports. An inability to purchase LPG from foreign sources would materially adversely affect our operations. In addition, because we have only one current contracted source of feedstock for our SNG, if Tesoro chooses to discontinue the production or sale of feedstock to us, which they could do with little notice, our utility business would suffer a significant disruption and potentially significant operating costs and capital expenditures until alternative supplies could be arranged. Our gas production and distribution business is also limited in its ability to store both foreign-sourced LPG and domestic LPG at the same location at the same time and, therefore, any disruption in supply may cause a short-term depletion of LPG. All supply disruptions, if occurring for an extended period, could materially adversely impact the business' contribution margin and cash flows. The most significant costs for our gas production and distribution business are locally-sourced LPG, LPG imports and feedstock for the SNG plant, the costs of which are directly related to petroleum prices. To the extent that these costs cannot be passed on to customers, the business’ contribution margin and cash flows will be adversely affected. The profitability of our gas production and distribution business is based on the margin of sales prices over costs. Since LPG and feedstock for the SNG plant are commodities, changes in the market for these products can have a significant impact on costs. In addition, increased reliance on higher-priced foreign sources of LPG, whether due to disruptions or shortages in local sources or otherwise, could also have a significant impact on costs. Our gas production and distribution business has no control over these costs, and, to the extent that these costs cannot be passed on to customers, the business’ financial condition and the results of operations would be adversely affected. Higher prices could result in reduced customer demand or could result in customer conversion to alternative energy sources. This would reduce sales volume and adversely affect profits. Our gas production and distribution business' operations on the islands of Hawaii, Maui and Kauai rely on LPG that is transported to those islands by Jones Act qualified barges from Oahu and from non-Jones Act vessels from foreign ports. Disruptions to those vessels could adversely affect the business' results of operations. Our gas production and distribution business has time charter agreements allowing the use of two barges that have the capability of transporting 424,000 gallons and 500,000 gallons of LPG, respectively. The Jones Act requires that vessels carrying cargo between two U.S. ports meet certain requirements. The barges used by our gas production and distribution business are the only two Jones Act qualified barges available in the Hawaiian Islands and capable of carrying large volumes of LPG. They are near the end of their useful economic lives, and the barge owner intends to replace one or both of them in the near future. To the extent that the barge owner is unable to replace these barges, or alternatively, these barges are unable to transport LPG from Oahu and the business is not able to secure foreign-source LPG or obtain an exemption to the Jones Act, the storage capacity on those islands could be depleted and sales and cash flows could be adversely affected. The recovery of amounts expended for capital projects and operating expenses in the regulated operations is subject to approval by the Hawaii Public Utilities Commission, or HPUC, which exposes our gas production and distribution business to the risk of incurring costs that may not be recoverable from regulated customers. In the past, our gas production and distribution business has requested rate increases from the HPUC approximately every five years as its operating costs increased and as capital investments were committed. 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS When the HPUC approved our purchase of the business, it stipulated that no rate increase may be implemented until 2009. Our gas production and distribution business is currently seeking an 8.4% increase in its utility rates with interim rate increases expected as early as July 2009. However, there is a risk that the HPUC will not grant any such rate increases or it will permit only part of the increase, which may have a material adverse effect on the business’ financial condition and results of operations. The non-regulated operations of our gas production and distribution business are subject to a variety of competitive pressures and the actions of competitors, particularly those involved in other energy sources, could have a materially adverse effect on operating results. In Hawaii, gas is largely used by commercial and residential customers for water heating and cooking. Our gas production and distribution business also has wholesale customers that resell product to other end-users. Gas end-use applications may be substituted by other fuel sources such as electricity, diesel, solar and wind, particularly if the price of gas increases relative to other fuel sources, due to higher commodity supply costs or otherwise. Customers could, for a number of reasons, including increased gas prices, lower costs of alternative energy or convenience, meet their energy needs through alternative sources. This could have an adverse effect on the business' sales, revenue and cash flows. Approximately two-thirds of the employees of our gas production and distribution business are members of a labor union. A work interruption may adversely affect our gas production and distribution business. Approximately two-thirds of the employees of our gas production and distribution business are covered under a collective bargaining agreement that expires on April 30, 2013. Labor disruptions related to that contract or to other disputes could affect gas manufacturing, gas distribution systems, gas delivery and customer services. Any labor dispute, as well as the process of contract negotiations, has the potential of creating morale issues, which, if severe enough may adversely impact productivity. Because of its geographic location, Hawaii, and in turn our gas production and distribution business, is subject to earthquakes and certain weather risks that could materially disrupt operations. Hawaii is subject to earthquakes and certain weather risks, such as hurricanes, floods, heavy and sustained rains and tidal waves. Because the business’ SNG plant, SNG transmission line and several storage facilities are close to the ocean, weather-related disruptions are possible. In addition, earthquakes may cause disruptions. These events could damage its assets or could result in wide-spread damage to its customers, thereby reducing sales volumes and, to the extent such damages are not covered by insurance, the business’ revenue and cash flows. Risks Related to Our District Energy Business Pursuant to the terms of a use agreement with the City of Chicago, the City of Chicago has rights that, if exercised, could have a significant negative impact on our district energy business. In order to operate our district cooling system in downtown Chicago, we have obtained the right to use certain public ways of the City of Chicago under a use agreement, which we refer to as the Use Agreement. Under the terms of the Use Agreement, the City of Chicago retains the right to use the public ways for a public purpose and has the right in the interest of public safety or convenience to cause us to remove, modify, replace or relocate our facilities at our own expense. If the City of Chicago exercises these rights, we could incur significant costs and our ability to provide service to our customers could be disrupted, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Use Agreement is non-exclusive, and the City of Chicago is entitled to enter into use agreements with our potential competitors. The Use Agreement expires on December 31, 2040 and may be terminated by the City of Chicago for any uncured material breach of its terms and conditions. The City of Chicago also may require us to pay liquidated damages of $6,000 a day if we fail to remove, modify, replace or relocate our facilities when required to do so, if we install any facilities that are not properly authorized under the Use Agreement or if our district cooling system does not conform to the City of Chicago's standards. Each of these non-compliance penalties could result in substantial financial loss or effectively shut down our district cooling system in downtown Chicago. 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS Any proposed renewal, extension or modification of the Use Agreement requires approval by the City Council of Chicago. Extensions and modifications subject to the City of Chicago's approval include those to enable the expansion of chilling capacity and the connection of new customers to the district cooling system. The City of Chicago's approval is contingent upon the timely filing of an Economic Disclosure Statement, or EDS, by us and certain of the beneficial owners of our stock. If any of these investors fails to file a completed EDS form within 30 days of the City of Chicago's request or files an incomplete or inaccurate EDS, the City of Chicago has the right to refuse to provide the necessary approval for any extension or modification of the Use Agreement or to rescind the Use Agreement altogether. If the City of Chicago declines to approve extensions or modifications to the Use Agreement, we may not be able to increase the capacity of our district cooling system and pursue our growth strategy for our district energy business. Furthermore, if the City of Chicago rescinds or voids the Use Agreement, our district cooling system in downtown Chicago would be effectively shut down and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected as a result. Certain of our investors may be required to comply with certain disclosure requirements of the City of Chicago and non-compliance may result in the City of Chicago's rescission or voidance of the Use Agreement and any other arrangements our district energy business may have with the City of Chicago at the time of the non-compliance. In order to secure any amendment to the Use Agreement with the City of Chicago to pursue expansion plans or otherwise, or to enter into other contracts with the City of Chicago, the City of Chicago may require any person who owns or acquires 7.5% or more of our LLC interests to make a number of representations to the City of Chicago by filing a completed EDS. Our LLC agreement requires that in the event that we need to obtain approval from the City of Chicago in the future for any specific matter, including to expand the district cooling system or to amend the Use Agreement, we and each of our then 7.5% investors would need to submit an EDS to the City of Chicago within 30 days of the City of Chicago's request. In addition, our LLC agreement requires each 7.5% investor to provide any supplemental information needed to update any EDS filed with the City of Chicago as required by the City of Chicago and as requested by us from time to time. Any EDS filed by an investor may become publicly available. By completing and signing an EDS, an investor will have waived and released any possible rights or claims which it may have against the City of Chicago in connection with the public release of information contained in the EDS and also will have authorized the City of Chicago to verify the accuracy of information submitted in the EDS. The requirements and consequences of filing an EDS with the City of Chicago will make compliance with the EDS requirements difficult for our investors. If any investor fails to comply with the EDS requirements on time or the City of Chicago determines that any information provided in any EDS is false, incomplete or inaccurate, the City of Chicago may rescind or void the Use Agreement or any other arrangements Thermal Chicago has with the City of Chicago, and pursue any other remedies available to them. If the City of Chicago rescinds or voids the Use Agreement, our district cooling system in downtown Chicago would be effectively shut down and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected as a result. If certain events within or beyond the control of our district energy business occur, our district energy business may be unable to perform its contractual obligations to provide chilling and heating services to its customers. If, as a result, its customers elect to terminate their contracts, our district energy business may suffer loss of revenue. In addition, our district energy business may be required to make payments to such customers for damages. In the event of a shutdown of one or more of our district energy business' plants due to operational breakdown, strikes, the inability to retain or replace key technical personnel or events outside its control, such as an electricity blackout, or unprecedented weather conditions in Chicago, our district energy business may be unable to continue to provide chilling and heating services to all of its customers. As a result, our district energy business may be in breach of the terms of some or all of its customer contracts. In the event that such customers elect to terminate their contracts with our district energy business as a consequence of their loss of 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS service, its revenue may be materially adversely affected. In addition, under a number of contracts, our district energy business may be required to pay damages to a customer in the event that a cessation of service results in loss to that customer. Northwind Aladdin currently derives most of its operating cash flows from a contract with a single customer, the Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino, which emerged from bankruptcy several years ago. If this customer were to enter into bankruptcy again, our contract may be amended or terminated and we may receive no compensation, which could result in the loss of our investment in Northwind Aladdin. Northwind Aladdin derives most of its cash flows from a contract with the Planet Hollywood resort and casino (formerly known as the Aladdin resort and casino) in Las Vegas to supply cold and hot water and back-up electricity. The Aladdin resort and casino emerged from bankruptcy immediately prior to MDE's acquisition of Northwind Aladdin in September 2004, and, during the course of those proceedings, the contract with Northwind Aladdin was amended to reduce the payment obligations of the Aladdin resort and casino. If the Planet Hollywood resort and casino were to enter into bankruptcy again and a cheaper source of the services that Northwind Aladdin provides can be found, our contract may be terminated or amended. This could result in a total loss or significant reduction in our income from Northwind Aladdin, for which we may receive no compensation. Risks Related to Our Airport Parking Business There is substantial doubt as to the ability of our parking business to continue as a going concern and creditors of that business may seek recourse to the Company regardless of the legal merits. The ongoing downturn in the U.S. economy and the decline in commercial air travel have caused the results of our airport parking business to decline, particularly its revenues, EBITDA and cash from operations. In the past, the business has funded its operations in part with its own cash on hand; however, in the second and third quarters of 2008, we contributed cash to the business to enable it to meet its liquidity requirements. We have not contributed any cash to the business for the fourth quarter of 2008 nor do we intend to make any cash contributions to this business in the future other than potentially obligations that we have guaranteed. It is highly likely that our airport parking business will not be able to refinance or pay its debt obligations that mature in 2009. In light of the current credit markets and performance of the airport parking business, there is substantial doubt as to the parking business’ ability to continue as a going concern. Upon an event of default under the airport parking business’ debt agreements or an insolvency, creditors of the business may choose to foreclose on or assume control of the business’ assets. Creditors of the business may also attempt to seek recovery from the Company and, through the Company, seek recourse to the assets of our other businesses, regardless of the merits of such a claim or lack thereof, which could result in substantial legal costs and significant disruption of management time and resources, thereby adversely affecting our profitability. Our airport parking business is exposed to competition from both on-airport and off-airport parking, which could slow our growth or harm our business. At each of the locations at which our airport parking business operates, it competes with both on-airport parking facilities, many of which are located closer to passenger terminals, and other off-airport parking facilities. If an airport expands its parking facilities or if new off-airport parking facilities are opened or existing facilities expanded, customers may be drawn away from our sites or we may have to reduce our parking rates, or both. Parking rates charged by us at each of our locations are set with reference to a number of factors, including prices charged by competitors and quality of service by on-airport and off-airport competitors, the location and quality of the facility and the level of service provided. Additional sources of competition to our parking operations may come from new or improved transportation to the airports where our parking facilities are located. Improved rail, bus or other services may encourage our customers not to drive to the airport and therefore negatively impact revenue. 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS Changes in regulation by airport authorities or other governmental bodies governing the transportation of customers to and from the airports at which our airport parking business operates may negatively affect our operating results. Our airport parking business' shuttle operations transport customers between the airport terminals and its parking facilities and are regulated by, and are subject to, the rules and policies of the relevant local airport authority, which may be changed at their discretion. Some airport authorities levy fees on off-airport parking operators for the right to transport customers to the terminals. There is a risk that airport authorities may deny or restrict our access to terminals, impede our ability to manage our shuttle operations efficiently, impose new fees or increase the fees currently levied. Further, the FAA and the Transportation Security Administration, or TSA, regulate the operations of all the airports at which our airport parking business has locations. The TSA has the authority to restrict access to airports as well as to impose parking and other restrictions around the airports. The TSA could impose more stringent restrictions in the future that would inhibit the ability of customers to use our parking facilities. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Stock Our Manager's affiliation with Macquarie Group Limited and the Macquarie Group may result in conflicts of interest or a decline in our stock price. Our Manager is an affiliate of Macquarie Group Limited and a member of the Macquarie Group. From time to time, we have entered into, and in the future we may enter into, transactions and relationships involving Macquarie Group Limited, its affiliates, or other members of the Macquarie Group. Such transactions have included and may include, among other things, the acquisition of businesses and investments from Macquarie Group members, the entry into debt facilities and derivative instruments with members of the Macquarie Group serving as lender or counterparty, and financial advisory services provided to us by the Macquarie Group. Although our audit committee, all of the members of which are independent directors, is required to approve of any related party transactions, including those involving members of the Macquarie Group or its affiliates, the relationship of our Manager to the Macquarie Group may result in conflicts of interest. In addition, as a result of our Manager’s being a member of the Macquarie Group, negative market perceptions of Macquarie Group Limited generally or of Macquarie’s infrastructure management model, or Macquarie Group statements or actions with respect to other managed vehicles, may affect market perceptions of our company and cause a decline in the price of our LLC interests unrelated to our financial performance and prospects. In the event of the underperformance of our Manager, we may be unable to remove our Manager, which could limit our ability to improve our performance and could adversely affect the market price of our LLC interests. Under the terms of the management services agreement, our Manager must significantly underperform in order for the management services agreement to be terminated. The Company's Board of Directors cannot remove our Manager unless: • our LLC interests underperform a weighted average of two benchmark indices by more than 30% in relative terms and more than 2.5% in absolute terms in 16 out of 20 consecutive quarters prior to and including the most recent full quarter, and the holders of a minimum of 66.67% of the outstanding LLC interests (excluding any LLC interests owned by our Manager or any affiliate of the Manager) vote to remove our Manager; • our Manager materially breaches the terms of the management services agreement and such breach continues unremedied for 60 days after notice; • our Manager acts with gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of its duties in carrying out its obligations under the management services agreement, or engages in fraudulent or dishonest acts; or • our Manager experiences certain bankruptcy events. 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS Because our Manager's performance is measured by the market performance of our LLC interests relative to a weighted average of two benchmark indices, even if the absolute market performance of our LLC interests does not meet expectations, the Company's Board of Directors cannot remove our Manager unless the market performance of our LLC interests also significantly underperforms the weighted average of the benchmark indices. If we were unable to remove our Manager in circumstances where the absolute market performance of our LLC interests does not meet expectations, the market price of our LLC interests could be negatively affected. Our Manager can resign on 90 days notice and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations which could adversely affect our financial results and negatively impact the market price of our LLC interests. Our Manager has the right, under the management services agreement, to resign at any time on 90 days notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If our Manager resigns, we may not be able to find a new external manager or hire internal management with similar expertise within 90 days to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial results could be adversely affected, perhaps materially, and the market price of our LLC interests may decline substantially. In addition, the coordination of our internal management, acquisition activities and supervision of our businesses and investments are likely to suffer if we were unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by our Manager and its affiliates. Furthermore, if our Manager resigns, the Company and its subsidiaries will be required to cease using the Macquarie brand entirely, including changing their names to remove any reference to “Macquarie.” This may cause the value of the Company and the market price of our LLC interests to decline. Certain provisions of the management services agreement and the operating agreement of the Company make it difficult for third parties to acquire control of the Company and could deprive you of the opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for your LLC interests. In addition to the limited circumstances in which our Manager can be terminated under the terms of the management services agreement, the management services agreement provides that in circumstances where the stock ceases to be listed on a recognized U.S. exchange as a result of the acquisition of stock by third parties in an amount that results in the stock ceasing to meet the distribution and trading criteria on such exchange or market, the Manager has the option to either propose an alternate fee structure and remain our Manager or resign, terminate the management services agreement upon 30 days written notice and be paid a substantial termination fee. The termination fee payable on the Manager's exercise of its right to resign as our Manager subsequent to a delisting of our LLC interests could delay or prevent a change in control that may favor our shareholders. Furthermore, in the event of such a delisting, any proceeds from the sale, lease or exchange of a significant amount of assets must be reinvested in new assets of our company, subject to debt repayment obligations. We would also be prohibited from incurring any new indebtedness or engaging in any transactions with shareholders of the Company or its affiliates without the prior written approval of the Manager. These provisions could deprive shareholders of opportunities to realize a premium on the LLC interests owned by them. The operating agreement of the Company, which we refer to as the LLC agreement, contains a number of provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third-party to acquire, or discouraging a third-party from acquiring, control of the company. These provisions include: • restrictions on the Company's ability to enter into certain transactions with our major shareholders, with the exception of our Manager, modeled on the limitation contained in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law; • allowing only the Company's Board of Directors to fill vacancies, including newly created directorships and requiring that directors may be removed only for cause and by a shareholder vote of 66 2/3%; • requiring that only the Company's chairman or Board of Directors may call a special meeting of our shareholders; 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS • prohibiting shareholders from taking any action by written consent; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to the Company's Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by our shareholders at a shareholders’ meeting; • having a substantial number of additional LLC interests authorized but unissued; • providing the company's Board of Directors with broad authority to amend the LLC agreement; and • requiring that any person who is the beneficial owner of 7.5% or more of our LLC interests make a number of representations to the City of Chicago in its standard form of Economic Disclosure Statement, or EDS, the current form of which is included in our LLC agreement, which is incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this report. The market price and marketability of our LLC interests may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors beyond our control, which may adversely affect our ability to raise capital through future equity financings. The market price of our LLC interests may fluctuate significantly. Many factors that are beyond our control may significantly affect the market price and marketability of our LLC interests and may adversely affect our ability to raise capital through equity financings. These factors include the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the stock markets generally; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of Macquarie Group Limited and/or vehicles managed by the Macquarie Group or branded under the Macquarie name or logo; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of registered investment companies, business development companies or companies in our sectors, which may not be related to the operating performance of these companies; • changes in our earnings or variations in operating results; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; • changes in regulatory policies or tax law; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; and • loss of funding sources. Risks Related to Taxation The current treatment of qualified dividend income and long-term capital gains under current U.S. federal income tax law may be adversely affected, changed or repealed in the future. Under current law, qualified dividend income and long-term capital gains are taxed to non-corporate investors at a maximum U.S. federal income tax rate of 15%. This tax treatment may be adversely affected, changed or repealed by future changes in tax laws at any time and is currently scheduled to expire for tax years beginning after December 31, 2010. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 