D. RISK FACTORS We are engaged primarily in transporting crude oil and oil products. The following summarises some of the risks that may materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Please note, in this section, "we", "us" and "our" all refer to the Company and its subsidiaries. We depend on subsidiaries of Frontline Ltd. for the majority of our operating cash flow and for our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. All of our vessels, except two, are chartered to either Frontline Shipping Limited, which we refer to as Frontline Shipping, or Frontline Shipping II Limited, which we refer to as Frontline Shipping II, and together the Charterers, under long term time charters, and the Charterers' payments to us are currently our principal source of operating cash flow. The Charterers are both wholly owned subsidiaries of Frontline Ltd. (NYSE:FRO), or Frontline, which is one of the largest owners and operators of large crude oil tankers in the world. Neither of the Charterers has any business or sources of funds other than those related to the chartering of our fleet to third parties. Frontline Shipping was initially capitalized by Frontline with $250 million (currently $218.2 million), and Frontline Shipping II has been capitalized with $56.2 million. This capital serves to support the Charterers' obligations to make charterhire payments to us. Neither Frontline nor any of its affiliates guarantees the payment of charterhire or is obligated to contribute additional capital to either of the Charterers at any time. Although there are restrictions on the Charterers' rights to use their cash to pay dividends or make other distributions, at any given time in the future, their available cash may be diminished or exhausted, and the Charterers may be unable to make charterhire payments to us. If the Charterers are unable to make charterhire payments to us, our results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected and we may not have cash available to pay debt service or for distributions to shareholders. Volatility in the tanker charter markets may cause the Charterers to be unable to pay charterhire to us. The Charterers subcharter our vessels to end users under long term time charters, on the spot charter market, or under contracts of affreightment under which our vessels carry an agreed upon quantity of cargo over a specified route and time period. As a result, the Charterers are directly exposed to the risk of volatility in tanker charter rates. Tanker charter rates have historically fluctuated significantly based upon many factors, including: o global and regional economic and political conditions; o changes in production of crude oil, particularly by OPEC and other key producers; o developments in international trade; o changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances that cargoes are transported and construction of new pipelines; o environmental concerns and regulations; o weather; and o competition from alternative sources of energy. Tanker charter rates also tend to be subject to seasonal variations, with demand (and rates) normally higher in winter months. The Charterers' successful operation of our vessels in the tanker charter market will depend on, among other things, its ability to obtain profitable tanker charters. We cannot assure you that future tanker charters will be available to the Charterers at rates sufficient to enable the Charterers to meet their obligations to pay charterhire to us. A significant portion of our common shares are owned by Frontline and related parties and we depend on officers and directors of Frontline for our management, which may create conflicts of interest. Frontline currently owns 11.1% of our common shares, and Hemen Holding Ltd. and Farahead Investment Inc., companies indirectly controlled by John Fredriksen, Frontline's Chairman and CEO currently own collectively 37.6% of our common shares. Except for the CEO in our subsidiary Ship Finance Management AS, Lars Solbakken, we do not have any employees or officers who are not employees or officers of Frontline. All of our directors and officers, except for one, are directors or officers of Frontline. These directors owe fiduciary duties to the shareholders of each company and may have conflicts of interest in matters involving or affecting us and Frontline, including matters arising under our agreements with Frontline and its affiliates. In addition, due to their ownership of Frontline common shares, some of these individuals may have conflicts of interest when faced with decisions that could have different implications for Frontline than they do for us. We cannot assure you that any of these conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. The agreements between us and Frontline and Frontline's affiliates may be less favorable than agreements that we could obtain from unaffiliated third parties. The charters, the management agreements, the charter ancillary agreements and the other contractual agreements we have with Frontline and its affiliates were made in the context of an affiliated relationship and were not negotiated in arms length transactions. The negotiation of these agreements may have resulted in prices and other terms that are less favorable to us than terms we might have obtained in arm's length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties for similar services. Frontline's other business activities may create conflicts of interest with Frontline. While Frontline has agreed to cause the Charterers to use their commercial best efforts to employ our vessels on market terms and not to give preferential treatment in the marketing of any other vessels owned or managed by Frontline or its other affiliates, it is possible that conflicts of interests in this regard will adversely affect us. Under our charter ancillary agreements with the Charterers and Frontline, we are entitled to receive annual profit sharing payments to the extent that the average TCE rates realized by the Charterers exceed specified levels. Because Frontline also owns or manages other vessels in addition to our fleet, which are not included in the profit sharing calculation, conflicts of interest may arise between us and Frontline in the allocation of chartering opportunities that could limit our fleet's earnings and reduce the profit sharing payments or charterhire due under our charters. If our charters or management agreements terminate, we could be exposed to increased volatility in our business and financial results. If any of our charters terminate, we may not be able to re-charter these vessels on a long term basis with terms similar to the terms of our charters with the Charterers. While the terms of our current charters end between 2014 and 2025, the Charterers have the option to terminate the charters of our non-double hull vessels on the vessel's anniversary date in 2010. One or more of the charters with respect to our vessels may also terminate in the event of a requisition for title or a loss of a vessel. In addition, under our vessel management agreements with Frontline Management (Bermuda) Limited, or Frontline Management, Frontline Management is responsible for all of the technical and operational management of our vessels for a fixed management fee, and will indemnify us against certain losses of hire and various other liabilities relating to the operation of the vessels. We may terminate our management agreements with Frontline Management for any reason at any time on 90 days' notice. In addition, our current management agreements with Frontline Management may be terminated if the relevant charter is terminated. If our management agreements with Frontline Management were to terminate or we were to acquire additional vessels in the future, we may not be able to obtain similar fixed rate terms from an independent third party. We may acquire additional vessels in the future and we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into similar charters with the Charterers or a third party charterer, or that we will be able to enter into similar management agreements with Frontline Management or a third party manager. With respect to any vessels we acquire that are not subject to the charter and management agreements with the Charterers and Frontline Management, we will be directly exposed to all of the operational and other risks associated with operating our vessels as described in these risk factors. As a result, our future cash flow could be more volatile and we could be exposed to increases in our vessel operating expenses, each of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and business. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company," which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." Based on our method of operation, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities will not constitute "passive income," and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our proposed method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders would be subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. See "United States Taxation--Taxation of U.S. Holders" for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. Our subsidiaries may not be exempt from Liberian taxation which would materially reduce our net income and cash flow by the amount of the applicable tax. The Republic of Liberia enacted a new income tax act effective as of January 1, 2001 (the "New Act"). In contrast to the income tax law previously in effect since 1977 (the "Prior Law"), which the New Act repealed in its entirety, the New Act does not distinguish between the taxation of a non-resident Liberian corporation, such as our Liberian subsidiaries, which conduct no business in Liberia and were wholly exempted from tax under the Prior Law, and the taxation of ordinary resident Liberian corporations. In 2004, the Liberian Ministry of Finance issued regulations pursuant to which a non-resident domestic corporation engaged in international shipping, such as our Liberian subsidiaries, will not be subject to tax under the New Act retroactive to January 1, 2001 (the "New Regulations"). In addition, the Liberian Ministry of Justice issued an opinion that the New Regulations were a valid exercise of the regulatory authority of the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, assuming that the New Regulations are valid, our Liberian subsidiaries will be wholly exempt from Liberian income tax as under the Prior Law. If our Liberian subsidiaries were subject to Liberian income tax under the New Act, our Liberian subsidiaries would be subject to tax at a rate of 35% on their worldwide income. As a result, their, and subsequently our, net income and cash flow would be materially reduced by the amount of the applicable tax. In addition, we, as shareholder of the Liberian subsidiaries, would be subject to Liberian withholding tax on dividends paid by the Liberian subsidiaries at rates ranging from 15% to 20%. We are highly leveraged and subject to restrictions in our financing agreements that impose constraints on our operating and financing flexibility. We have significant indebtedness outstanding under our senior notes. We have also entered into secured loan facilities. We may need to refinance some or all of our indebtedness on maturity of our senior notes but we cannot assure you we will be able to do so on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we cannot refinance our indebtedness, we will have to dedicate some or all of our cash flow, and we may be required to sell some of our assets, to pay the principal and interest on this indebtedness. In such a case, we may not be able to pay dividends to our shareholders and may not be able to grow our fleet as may otherwise be planned. We may also incur additional debt in the future. Our loan facilities and the indenture for our senior notes subject us to limitations on our business and future financing activities, including: o limitations on our incurrence of additional indebtedness, including our issuance of additional guarantees; o limitations on our incurrence of liens; o limitations on our ability to pay dividends and make other distributions under certain circumstances; and o limitations on our ability to renegotiate or amend our charters, management agreements and other material agreements. Further, our loan facilities contain financial covenants that require us to, among other things: o provide additional security under the loan facilities or prepay an amount of the loan facilities as necessary to maintain the fair market value of our vessels securing the loan facilities at not less than 125% or 140% of the principal amount outstanding the different loan facilities; o maintain available cash on a consolidated basis of not less than $25 million; o maintain positive working capital on a consolidated basis; and o maintain a ratio of shareholders' equity to total assets of not less than 20%. Under the terms of our loan facility, we may not make distributions to our shareholders if we do not satisfy these covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy these covenants in the future. Due to these restrictions, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders' permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. Our debt service obligations require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on indebtedness and could limit our ability to obtain additional financing, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, and carry out other general corporate activities in the future. These obligations may also limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the shipping industry or detract from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage to other less leveraged competitors. Our shareholders must rely on us to enforce our rights against our contract counterparties. Holders of our common shares and other securities will have no direct right to enforce the obligations of the Charterers, Frontline Management or Frontline under the charters and related agreements, the Frontline performance guarantee or the management agreements with Frontline Management. Accordingly, if any of those counterparties were to breach their obligations to us under any of these agreements, our shareholders would have to rely on us to pursue our remedies against those counterparties. Because we depend on officers and directors of Frontline for our management, if such a breach were to occur, our common officers and directors would face a direct conflict of interest and we cannot assure you that our rights would be protected to the same extent that they would be if we had independent managers. An increase in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. We have outstanding approximately $1,336.6 million in floating rate debt under our two senior secured credit facilities as of December 31, 2005. Although we use interest rate swaps to manage our interest rate exposure from a portion of our floating rate debt, if interest rates rise, interest payments on our floating rate debt that we have not swapped into effectively fixed rates would increase. As of December 31, 2005 we have entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest on $568.3 million of our outstanding indebtedness. An increase in interest rates could cause us to incur additional costs associated with our debt service which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our maximum exposure to interest rate fluctuations is $768.3 million at December 31, 2005. A one per cent change in interest rates would increase or decrease interest expense by $7.7 million per year as of December 31, 2005. Because we are a relatively new company with limited separate operating history, our historical financial and operating data for periods prior to January 1, 2004, will not be representative of our future results. We were formed in October 2003 and commenced operations in January 2004. Prior to commencing operations we did not have any operating history separate from Frontline's. The predecessor combined carve-out financial statements included as comparatives in this annual report have been prepared on a carve-out basis and reflect the historical business activities of Frontline relating to our vessel owning subsidiaries. These predecessor financial statements do not reflect the results we would have obtained under our current fixed rate long term charters and management agreements and therefore are not a meaningful representation of our future results of operations. An acceleration of the current prohibition to trade deadlines for our non-double hull tankers could adversely affect our operations. Our fleet includes 18 non-double hull tankers. The United States, the European Union and the International Maritime Organization, or the IMO, have all imposed limits or prohibitions on the use of these types of tankers in specified markets after certain target dates, depending on certain factors such as the size of the vessel and the type of cargo. In the case of our non-double hull tankers, these phase out dates range from 2010 to 2015. In 2005, the Marine Environmental Protection Committee of the IMO has amended the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships to accelerate the phase out of certain categories of single hull tankers, including the types of vessels in our fleet, from 2015 to 2010 unless the relevant flag states extend the date. This change could result in a number of our vessels being unable to trade in many markets after 2010. The phase out of single hull tankers may therefore reduce the demand for single hull tankers, and force the remaining single hull tankers into employment on less desirable trading routes and increase the number of tankers trading on those routes. As a result, single hull tankers may be chartered less frequently and at lower rates. Moreover, additional regulations may be adopted in the future that could further adversely affect the useful lives of our non-double hull tankers, as well as our ability to generate income from them. Compliance with safety, environmental and other governmental and other requirements may adversely affect our business. The shipping industry is affected by numerous regulations in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which such tankers operate, as well as in the country or countries in which such tankers are registered. These regulations include the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, or SOLAS, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966 and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002. In addition, vessel classification societies also impose significant safety and other requirements on our vessels. We believe our tankers are maintained in good condition in compliance with present regulatory and class requirements relevant to areas in which they operate, and are operated in compliance with applicable safety/environmental laws and regulations. However, regulation of tankers, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental impact may change in the future and require significant capital expenditures be incurred on our vessels to keep them in compliance. We may incur losses when we sell vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings. The market value of our vessels, which are at historically high levels, will change depending on a number of factors, including general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry, competition, cost of vessel construction, governmental or other regulations, prevailing levels of charter rates, and technological changes. During the period a vessel is subject to a charter with the Charterers, we will not be permitted to sell it to take advantage of increases in vessel values without the Charterers' agreement. On the other hand, if the Charterers were to default under the charters due to adverse conditions in the tanker market, causing a termination of the charters, it is likely that the fair market value of vessels would be depressed in such market conditions. If we were to sell a vessel at a time when vessel prices have fallen, we could incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. Our business has inherent operational risks, which may not be adequately covered by insurance. Our tankers and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, mechanical failures, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. In addition, transporting crude oil across a wide variety of international jurisdictions creates a risk of business interruptions due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities, labor strikes and boycotts, the potential for changes in tax rates or policies, and the potential for government expropriation of our vessels. Any of these events may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows to the Charterers, which could impair their ability to make payments to us under our charters. In the event of a casualty to a vessel or other catastrophic event, we will rely on our insurance to pay the insured value of the vessel or the damages incurred. Under the management agreements, Frontline Management is responsible for procuring insurance for our fleet against those risks that we believe the shipping industry commonly insures against. These insurances include marine hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which include pollution risks and crew insurances and war risk insurance. Currently, the amount of coverage for liability for pollution, spillage and leakage available to us on commercially reasonable terms through protection and indemnity associations and providers of excess coverage is $1 billion per vessel per occurrence. We cannot assure you that we will be adequately insured against all risks. Frontline Management may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet in the future. Additionally, our insurers may refuse to pay particular claims. Any significant loss or liability for which we are not insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Maritime claimants could arrest our tankers, which could interrupt the Charterers' or our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt the Charterers' or our cash flow and require us to pay a significant amount of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another vessel in our fleet. As our fleet ages, the risks associated with older tankers could adversely affect our operations. In general, the costs to maintain a tanker in good operating condition increase as the tanker ages. Due to improvements in engine technology, older tankers typically are less fuel-efficient than more recently constructed tankers. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a tanker, making older tankers less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of tankers may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our tankers to comply with safety or environmental laws or regulations that may be enacted in the future. These laws or regulations may also restrict the type of activities in which our tankers may engage or the geographic regions in which they may operate. We cannot predict what alterations or modifications our vessels may be required to undergo in the future or that as our tankers age, market conditions will justify any required expenditures or enable us to operate our tankers profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. There may be risks associated with the purchase and operation of secondhand vessels. Our current business strategy includes additional growth through the acquisition of secondhand vessels. Although we will inspect secondhand vessels prior to purchase, this does not normally provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have had if such vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Therefore, our future operating results could be negatively affected if some of the vessels do not perform as we expect. Also, we do not receive the benefit of warranties from the builders if the vessels we buy are older than one year. If Frontline were to become insolvent, a bankruptcy court could pool our or the Charterers' assets and liabilities with those of Frontline under the equitable doctrine of substantive consolidation. Under United States bankruptcy law, the equitable doctrine of substantive consolidation can permit a bankruptcy court to disregard the separateness of related entities and to consolidate and pool the entities' assets and liabilities and treat them as though held and incurred by one entity where the interrelationship among the entities warrants such consolidation. Substantive consolidation is an equitable remedy in bankruptcy that results in the pooling of assets and liabilities of a debtor with one or more of its debtor affiliates or, in rare circumstances, non-debtor affiliates, for the purposes of administering claims and assets of creditors as part of the bankruptcy case, including treatment under a reorganization plan. Not all jurisdictions that could potentially have jurisdiction over an insolvency or bankruptcy case involving Frontline, us, and/or any of our respective affiliates recognize the substantive consolidation doctrine. For example, we have been advised by our Bermuda counsel that Bermuda does not recognize this doctrine. However, if Frontline or its creditors were to assert claims of substantive consolidation or related theories in a Frontline bankruptcy proceeding in a jurisdiction that recognizes the doctrine of substantive consolidation, such as the United States, the bankruptcy court could make our assets or the Charterers' assets available to satisfy Frontline obligations to its creditors. This could have a material adverse effect on us. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial and other obligations. We are a holding company, and have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries own all of our vessels, and payments under our charter agreements with the Charterers will be made to our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we will not be able to pay dividends to our shareholders. Investor confidence and the market price of our common stock may be adversely impacted if we are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We will become subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which will require us to include in our annual report on Form 20-F our management's report on, and assessment of the effectiveness of, our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, we will not be in compliance with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. Any failure to comply with Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. We believe the total cost of our initial compliance and the future ongoing costs of complying with these requirements may be substantial. 