ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors, among others, could cause USA Mobility’s actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. The rate of revenue erosion may not improve, or may deteriorate. USA Mobility and the paging industry continues to face intense competition for subscribers due to competition from the mobile phone and personal digital assistant service providers as they continue to lower device prices while adding functionality. A key factor in the Company’s ability to be profitable and produce net cash flow from operations is realizing improvement in the rate of revenue erosion from historical levels. USA Mobility is dependent on net cash provided by operations as its principal source of liquidity. If no improvement is realized, or if revenue erosion accelerates, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to remain profitable, to continue to produce positive cash flow, and to continue the payment of cash distributions to stockholders. USA Mobility may fail to achieve the cost savings necessary to maintain positive cash flow from operations. USA Mobility expects its revenue to continue to decline substantially in the future, therefore maintaining positive cash flow is dependent on substantially reducing operating costs. Achieving cost reductions of the magnitude necessary requires the Company to continue to reduce its internal costs, as well as to continually negotiate lower costs from its outside vendors. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in reducing its costs to the level necessary to maintain positive net cash flow. If the Company is not successful at continuing to reduce operating costs, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to remain profitable, to continue to produce positive cash flow, and to continue the payment of cash distributions to stockholders. 9 If the Company is unable to retain key management personnel, it might not be able to find suitable replacements on a timely basis or at all, and the Company’s business could be disrupted. USA Mobility’s success will depend, to a significant extent, upon the continued service of a relatively small group of key executive and management personnel. USA Mobility has an employment agreement with its president and chief executive officer. In addition, the Board of Directors has implemented both short-term and long-term incentive plans for key employees of the Company. Annually, the Company has a cash-based short-term incentive program based on certain performance metrics including profitability and continued employment with the Company. With respect to long-term incentives, the Company in 2005 granted to key employees restricted shares of common stock (“restricted stock”) that vest starting on January 1, 2007 through January 1, 2008 and depend upon continued employment with the Company. Additionally, in 2006, the Company implemented a second long-term incentive plan that includes both a restricted stock component and a cash component, each subject to vesting on January 1, 2009, to achieving expense reduction goals during the Company’s 2008 calendar year and to continuing employment with the Company. The loss or unavailability of one or more of the Company’s executive officers or the inability to attract or retain key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future financial position, results of operations, cash flows and ability to continue payment of cash distributions to stockholders. USA Mobility may be unable to find vendors willing to supply it with paging equipment based on future demands. The Company purchases paging equipment from third party vendors. This equipment is sold or leased to customers in order to provide wireless messaging services. The reduction in industry demand for paging equipment has caused various suppliers to cease manufacturing this equipment. There can be no assurance that the Company can continue to find vendors to supply paging equipment, or that the vendors will supply equipment at costs that allow the Company to remain a competitive alternative in the wireless messaging industry. A lack of paging equipment could impact the Company’s ability to provide certain wireless messaging services and could have a material adverse effect on its future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, and ability to continue payment of cash distributions to stockholders. USA Mobility may be unable to realize the benefits associated with its deferred income tax assets. The Company has significant deferred income tax assets that are available to offset future taxable income and increase cash flows from operations. The use of these deferred income tax assets is dependent on the availability of taxable income in future periods. The availability of future taxable income is dependent on the Company’s ability to continue to reduce operating costs and maintain profitability as both revenues and subscribers are expected to decline in the future. To the extent that anticipated reductions in operating costs do not occur or sufficient revenues are not generated, the Company may not achieve sufficient taxable income to allow for use of its deferred income tax assets. If the Company is unable to use these deferred income tax assets, there could be a material reduction in the Company’s after-tax net income, cash flows from operations and ability to continue payment of cash distributions to stockholders. Future changes in ownership of the Company’s stock could prevent USA Mobility from using its deferred income tax assets to offset future taxable income, which would materially reduce the Company’s expected after-tax net income and cash flows from operations. Actions available to the Company to preserve its consolidated tax assets could result in less liquidity for its common stock and/or depress the market value of its stock. If USA Mobility were to undergo an “ownership change”, as that term is defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “IRC”), the Company’s use of its deferred income tax assets would be restricted, which would reduce the Company’s after-tax net income and cash flow. This in turn could affect the Company’s ability to be profitable, produce positive cash flow, and continue the payment of cash distributions to stockholders. 10 Generally, an ownership change will occur if a cumulative shift in ownership of more than 50% of USA Mobility’s common stock occurs during a rolling three-year period. The cumulative shift in ownership is a measurement of the shift in ownership of the Company’s common stock held by stockholders that own 5% or more of such stock. In general terms, it will equal the aggregate of any increases in the percentage of common stock owned by each stockholder that owns 5% or more of USA Mobility stock at any time during the testing period over the lowest percentage of common stock owned by each such stockholder during the testing period. The testing period generally is the prior three years. As of December 31, 2006, the Company has undergone a combined cumulative change in ownership of approximately 35.0%. The determination of the Company’s percentage ownership change is dependent on provisions of the tax law that are subject to varying interpretations and on facts that are not precisely determinable by USA Mobility at this time. Therefore, the Company’s cumulative shift in ownership may be more or less than approximately 35.0% and, in any event, may increase by reason of subsequent transactions in the Company’s common stock by stockholders who own 5% or more of such stock, and certain other transactions affecting the direct or indirect ownership of common stock. Please refer to Item 5, Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, for a description of the transfer restrictions that are available to the Company in its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation which permit USA Mobility to restrict transfers by or to any 5% stockholder of its common stock or any transfer that would cause a person or group of persons to become a 5% stockholder of its common stock. USA Mobility intends to enforce these restrictions in order to preserve its deferred income tax assets, and such enforcement may result in less liquidity for the Company’s common stock and/or depress the market price for shares of USA Mobility’s common stock. USA Mobility’s deferred income tax assets are based on tax positions that have not been validated by federal and/or state tax authorities. The Company’s largest individual class of assets is its deferred income tax assets. These deferred income tax assets are based on past tax positions taken by the Company and its predecessors and subsidiaries in their federal and state income tax returns. These tax positions were based on the applicable laws and regulations existing at the time, and, in some cases, these laws and regulations were subject to varying interpretations. While the Company believes that its tax positions are supportable, reasonable and appropriate, the Company’s interpretations have not been validated by either the Internal Revenue Service or applicable state agencies. Should the Company be subject to federal and/or state income tax audits, the final results of these audits could result in adjustments to the Company’s previously taken tax positions and the underlying deferred income tax assets. Any such adjustments could result in a material change to the carrying value of the deferred income tax assets. Material downward adjustments to the deferred income tax assets could result in future taxable income from operations. Future taxable income could result in cash payments for income taxes and in a material reduction in cash from operating activities. Significant cash payments for income taxes could impact the Company’s future financial position, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to stockholders. USA Mobility is regulated by the Federal Communications Commission and, to a lesser extent, state and local regulating governmental bodies. Changes in regulation could result in increased costs to the Company. USA Mobility is subject to regulation by the FCC and, to a lesser extent, by state and local authorities. Changes in regulatory policy could increase the fees the Company must pay to the government or to third parties and could subject the Company to more stringent requirements that could cause the Company to incur additional operating expenditures. For example, the FCC is considering changes to its rules governing the collection of universal service fees, and such changes could significantly increase required contributions by the Company. While the Company passes through such fees to consumers, increased fees could diminish the demand for the Company’s services. In addition, USA Mobility’s costs associated with the transmission of telecommunications traffic could increase. Although the Company no longer pays fees for the termination of traffic originating on the networks of local exchange carriers, 11 the Company may be liable to local exchange carriers for costs associated with delivering traffic that does not originate on that local exchange carrier’s network, referred to as transit traffic. Depending on further FCC disposition of these issues and the agreements reached between USA Mobility and the local exchange carriers, the Company could face increased costs in connection with such transit traffic. If these issues are not ultimately decided through settlement negotiations or via the FCC in the Company’s favor, USA Mobility may be required to pay past due contested transit traffic charges not addressed by existing agreements or to offset against payments due from local exchange carriers. The Company may also be assessed interest and late charges for amounts withheld. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS The Company had no unresolved SEC staff comments as of March 7, 2007. 