ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings before making any investment decisions with respect to our common stock. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, prospects, reputation, results of operations, or financial condition could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and our stockholders could lose all or part of their investment. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and cannot assure you that we will again achieve profitability. The extent of our future operating income or losses is highly uncertain, and we may not be able to reach and sustain profitability. We have incurred significant cumulative net losses since our inception. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 were approximately $10.0 million, $16.9 million, and $11.9 million, respectively, reflecting a decline in revenues. At December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $128.6 million. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reach or sustain profitability. We have shifted our business focus to diabetes care. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in diabetes care or that our initial commercial product, NC-stat DPNCheck, for diagnosis and evaluation of systemic neuropathies, such as DPN, will be successful. Our strategic focus is now on diabetes care. Our initial diabetes care product, NC-stat DPNCheck, is a rapid, cost-effective, quantitative test for systemic neuropathies, such as DPN. NC-stat DPNCheck is a modified version of our existing NC-stat device, designed specifically for the assessment of sural nerve conduction, a biomarker for DPN, at the point of care. We initiated commercial shipments of NC-stat DPNCheck in the third quarter of 2011. Our future prospects are closely tied to our success with NC-stat DPNCheck which, in turn, depends upon market acceptance and growth in future revenues. We cannot assure you that our diabetes care strategy, including the commercialization of NC-stat DPNCheck and other products in our development pipeline, will be successful. If our diabetes care strategy is not successful, it could materially affect our revenues and results of operations. Our future success could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: ·inability of physicians to obtain patient payment for nerve testing using NC-stat DPNCheck; ·inability to secure broad-based third party reimbursement to physicians for nerve testing using NC-stat DPNCheck; ·decreased rates of patient visits to physicians; ·unfavorable experiences by physicians using NC-stat DPNCheck; ·physicians’ reluctance to alter their existing practices; and ·the failure of other companies’ existing drug development programs to produce an effective treatment for large fiber diabetic peripheral neuropathy, which may limit the perceived need for and the actual use of NC-stat DPNCheck and thereby limit or delay our growth in the diabetes market. 15 If we are unable to expand the market for the NC-stat DPNCheck product, our ability to increase our revenues will be limited and our business prospects will be adversely affected. We currently rely on sales of the products that comprise the ADVANCE and NC-stat Systems to generate substantially all of our revenues. Any factors that negatively impact our sales of these products, including our plans to discontinue support of NC-stat in the first quarter of 2012, could significantly reduce our ability to generate revenues. We launched the NC-stat System in May 1999 and introduced the ADVANCE System, our next generation nerve conduction testing system, in June 2008. We have derived, and continue to derive, substantially all of our revenues from sales of the products that comprise these two systems, particularly from electrodes. The NC-stat System is being phased out and will not be supported beyond the first quarter of 2012. We expect that sales of the ADVANCE System will continue to constitute the majority of our sales for the next year and beyond. Accordingly, our ability to generate revenues is dependent on our ability to market and sell the products that comprise the ADVANCE System, particularly electrodes. Our sales of these products may be negatively impacted by many factors, including: ·the failure of the market to accept our products; ·changes in reimbursement rates or policies relating to our products by third-party payers; ·manufacturing problems; ·claims that our products infringe on patent rights or other intellectual property rights owned by other parties; ·adverse regulatory or legal actions relating to our products; and ·clinical trial results relating to our products or our competitors’ products. If any of these events occurs, our ability to generate revenues could be significantly reduced. If physicians or other health care providers are unable to obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party health care payers for procedures performed using our products, the adoption of our products and our future product sales will continue to be materially adversely affected. Widespread adoption of our products by the medical community is unlikely to occur if physicians do not receive sufficient reimbursement from third-party payers for performing procedures using our products. If physicians are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement for procedures performed using our products, we may be unable to sell our products at levels that are sufficient to allow us to achieve and maintain profitability, and our business would suffer significantly. Additionally, even if these procedures are reimbursed by third-party payers, adverse changes in payers’ policies toward reimbursement for the procedures would harm our ability to market and sell our products. Third-party payers include those governmental programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, workers’ compensation programs, private health insurers and other organizations. These organizations may deny coverage if they determine that a procedure was not reasonable or necessary, for example, if its use was not considered medically appropriate, or was experimental, or was performed for an unapproved indication. In addition, some health care systems are moving towards managed care arrangements in which they contract to provide comprehensive health care for a fixed cost per person, irrespective of the amount of care actually provided. These providers, in an effort to control health care costs, are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and, in some instances, have pressured medical suppliers to lower their prices. Guidelines of the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, set the reimbursement rates for procedures covered by Medicare. 16 Future regulatory action by CMS or other governmental agencies or negative clinical results may diminish reimbursement payments to physicians for performing procedures using our products. Medicaid reimbursement differs from state to state, and some state Medicaid programs may not cover the procedures performed with our products or pay physicians an adequate amount for performing those procedures, if at all. Additionally, some private payers do not follow the Medicare guidelines and may reimburse for only a portion of these procedures or not at all. We are unable to predict what changes will be made in the reimbursement methods used by private or governmental third-party payers. The CMS Physician Fee Schedule includes the category I CPT code 95905, or CPT 95905, for nerve conduction studies performed with preconfigured electrode arrays, such as those utilized with our ADVANCE System and with our NC-stat DPNCheck device. This code has been adopted throughout the Medicare system. Although Medicare now provides coverage for nerve testing using our proprietary pre-configured electrodes under CPT 95905 for at least some clinical indications, most commercial insurance companies have not revised their coverage policies. We generally do not foresee a significant near-term improvement in reimbursement for procedures performed with our neurodiagnostic devices. Additionally, we do not expect broad third-party reimbursement coverage for NC-stat DPNCheck to develop in the near term and cannot be sure of our eventual success in obtaining such coverage. We cannot assure you that third-party coverage will be available, that the amounts paid for procedures performed with our medical devices will be adequate, or that future legislation, regulation, or reimbursement policies of third-party payers will not adversely affect the demand for our products or our ability to sell these products on a profitable basis. Uncertain physician economics creates an obstacle to new account acquisition. The unavailability or inadequacy of third-party payer coverage or reimbursement could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA which could restrict the sales and marketing of ADVANCE and NC-stat DPNCheck, as well as other products for which we may seek FDA clearance or approval, and could cause us to incur significant costs. We sell medical devices that are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA with regard to manufacturing, labeling, sale, promotion, distribution, shipping and ongoing monitoring and follow-up. Before a new medical device, or a new use of or claim for an existing product, can be marketed in the United States, it must first be cleared or approved by the FDA. Medical devices may be marketed only for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. The regulatory review process can be expensive and lengthy. The FDA’s process for granting 510(k) clearance typically takes approximately three to six months, but it can be significantly longer. The process for obtaining a pre-market approval, or PMA, is much more costly and onerous. By law, the time period designated for the FDA’s review of a PMA is 180 days; however, this time is often extended and it is not uncommon for the PMA review process to take three years or longer from the time the application is filed with the FDA. The FDA may remove our devices from the market or enjoin them from commercial distribution if safety or effectiveness problems develop. Further, we may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearances or pre-market approvals for new products or for modifications to, or additional indications for, our existing products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearances or approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our revenue and future profitability. We have made modifications to our devices in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees, and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified devices. If any of these events occurs or if the FDA takes other enforcement actions, we may not be able to provide our customers with the products they require on a timely basis, our reputation could be harmed, and we could lose customers and suffer reduced revenues and increased costs. In the second quarter of 2010, we were notified by the FDA that certain reporting functions of the onCall Information System, or onCall, that operates with our cleared NC-stat device and for which we submitted a 510(k) premarket notification in 2006 were deemed by the FDA to be not substantially equivalent, or NSE, to the cleared NC-stat System or other existing predicate devices. In its letter, the FDA indicated that we could submit another 510(k) with specific additional information identified in the letter. onCall has been in use since 1999, and continued in use with FDA’s agreement after we voluntarily submitted a 510(k) in 2006 for these reporting functions, in order to resolve our differences of opinion with FDA as to whether such reporting functions had been covered by previous 510(k) premarket notifications. We submitted an administrative appeal of FDA’s NSE determination in July 2010. The appeal was made to the FDA’s next level supervisor under Title 21 of the Code of Federal Regulations Part 10.75, Internal Agency Review of Decisions. In December 2010, FDA’s next level supervisor upheld the NSE decision and stated that onCall should not be marketed nor should users of NC-stat devices continue to have access to certain components of onCall. The FDA response suggested that we submit a new 510 (k) for certain components of onCall. In our February 2011 reply to the FDA, we reported that we have implemented a year-long program to transition users of NC-stat devices to our 510(k) cleared ADVANCE System which does not use those components of onCall which are addressed in the NSE letter. This transition program is underway and we expect to complete it in the first quarter of 2012. Additionally, we have notified our customers that we will no longer support the NC-stat System. 17 Our NC-stat DPNCheck device for detection and evaluation of peripheral neuropathy at the point of care is a technical modification to the NC-stat device, has the same intended use, and does not use those portions of the onCall System referenced in the NSE decision. Under the FDA’s published guidance on 510(k) requirements for modified devices, we do not believe that a new 510(k) submission is required for NC-stat DPNCheck. We also are subject to numerous post-marketing regulatory requirements, including the FDA’s quality system regulations, which relate to the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation and servicing of our products, labeling regulations, medical device reporting regulations and correction and removal reporting regulations. Our failure or the failure by any manufacturer of our products to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA. FDA enforcement actions relating to post-marketing regulatory requirements or other issues, including any issues arising from the not substantially equivalent letter described above, may include any of the following: ·warning letters, untitled letters, fines, injunctions, product seizures, consent decrees and civil penalties; ·requiring repair, replacement, refunds, customer notifications or recall of our products; ·imposing operating restrictions, suspension or shutdown of production; ·refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to existing products; ·requesting voluntary rescission of 510(k) clearances or withdrawing PMA approvals that have already been granted; and ·criminal prosecution. If any of these events were to occur, they could harm our reputation, our ability to generate revenues and our profitability. Also, from time to time, legislation is introduced into Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the approval, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices. FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. The FDA has publicly stated that it is reevaluating its longstanding 510(k) review program. It is not clear when the program will be modified and what effect the modified review process will have on our ability to bring our product candidates to market. We depend on several single source manufacturers to produce our products. Any material adverse changes in our relationships with these manufacturers could prevent us from delivering products to our customers in a timely manner and may adversely impact our future revenues or costs. We rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture all of the components of our NC-stat DPNCheck and ADVANCE systems. In the event that our manufacturers cease to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products in a timely manner and on terms acceptable to us, we would be forced to locate alternate manufacturers. Additionally, if our manufacturers experience a failure in their production process, are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of the components necessary to manufacture our products or otherwise fail to meet our quality requirements, we may be forced to delay the manufacture and sale of our products or locate an alternative manufacturer. We may be unable to locate suitable alternative manufacturers for our products, particularly our electrodes and biosensors, for which the manufacturing process is relatively specialized, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We have entered into exclusive manufacturing and supply agreements with Parlex Polymer Flexible Circuits, Inc. for the manufacture of the electrodes and biosensors for the domestic market. Sunburst EMS, Inc. manufactures electronic boards and other components of our NC-stat DPNCheck components which we assemble in-house to produce completed devices. Sunburst EMS, Inc. also manufactures our ADVANCE monitors, docking stations, and communication hubs. We have experienced transient inventory shortages on new products during the initial production ramp-up phase. If any materially adverse changes in our relationships with these manufacturers occur, our ability to supply our customers will be severely limited until we are able to engage an alternate manufacturer or, if applicable, resolve any quality issues with our existing manufacturer. This situation could prevent us from delivering products to our customers in a timely manner, lead to decreased sales or increased costs, or harm our reputation with our customers. 18 If our manufacturers are unable to supply us with an adequate supply of products as we expand our markets, we could lose customers, our potential future growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. In order for us to successfully expand our business within the United States and internationally, our contract manufacturers must be able to provide us with substantial quantities of our products in compliance with regulatory requirements, in accordance with agreed upon specifications, at acceptable cost and on a timely basis. Our potential future growth could strain the ability of our manufacturers to deliver products and obtain materials and components in sufficient quantities. Manufacturers often experience difficulties in scaling up production, including problems with production yields and quality control and assurance. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of high quality products to meet customer demand on a timely basis, we could lose customers, our growth may be limited and our business could be harmed. The success of our business depends upon our ability to advance our pipeline products to commercialization. Currently, our revenues entirely depend upon sales of our ADVANCE and NC-stat systems, the sales of which have been declining in recent years. We are presently focused on commercializing NC-stat DPNCheck, advancing our pipeline of other diabetes products, and supporting the general purpose ADVANCE platform. We expect that advancing our pipeline products will require significant time and resources. We may not be successful in our commercialization efforts for any of the product candidates currently in our pipeline and we may not be successful developing, acquiring, or in-licensing additional product candidates, to the extent we decide to do so. If we are not successful advancing new products through our development pipeline, the regulatory process and commercial launch, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected. The patent rights we rely upon to protect the intellectual property underlying our products may not be adequate, which could enable third parties to use our technology and would harm our ability to compete in the market. Our success will depend in part on our ability to develop or acquire commercially valuable patent rights and to protect these rights adequately. The risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents and other related rights include the following: ·the pending patent applications we have filed or to which we have exclusive rights may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; ·the claims of any patents that are issued may not provide meaningful protection; ·we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; ·other parties may challenge patents, patent claims or patent applications licensed or issued to us; and ·other companies may design around technologies we have patented, licensed or developed. We also may not be able to protect our patent rights effectively in some foreign countries. For a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent protection in the United States or in particular foreign countries. Our patent rights underlying our products may not be adequate, and our competitors or customers may design around our proprietary technologies or independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing on any of our patent rights. In addition, the patents licensed or issued to us may not provide a competitive advantage. If any of these events were to occur, our ability to compete in the market would be harmed. Other rights and measures we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate, which would harm our ability to compete in the market. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, confidentiality, nondisclosure and assignment of invention agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on trade secrets to protect the technology and algorithms we use in our customer data processing and warehousing information system. While we currently require employees, consultants and other third parties to enter into confidentiality, non-disclosure or assignment of invention agreements or a combination thereof where appropriate, any of the following could still occur: ·the agreements may be breached or not enforced in a particular jurisdiction; ·we may have inadequate remedies for any breach; ·trade secrets and other proprietary information could be disclosed to our competitors; or ·others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technologies. 19 If, for any of the above reasons, our intellectual property is disclosed or misappropriated, it would harm our ability to protect our rights and our competitive position. We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, which could be expensive and, if we lose, could cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights, which would harm our ability to compete in the market. We rely on patents to protect a portion of our intellectual property and our competitive position. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving and, consequently, patent positions in the medical device industry are generally uncertain. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. Litigation may be necessary to: ·assert claims of infringement; ·enforce our patents; ·protect our trade secrets or know-how; or ·determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any lawsuits that we initiate could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, our ability to compete in the market or our reputation. Claims that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of others could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and increase our costs. Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the medical device industry. We expect that our products could be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors grows and the functionality of products and technology in different industry segments overlap. Third parties may currently have, or may eventually be issued, patents on which our products or technologies may infringe. Any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us. Any litigation regardless of its impact would likely result in the expenditure of significant financial resources and the diversion of management’s time and resources. In addition, litigation in which we are accused of infringement may cause negative publicity, adversely impact prospective customers, cause product shipment delays or require us to develop non-infringing technology, make substantial payments to third parties, or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If a successful claim of infringement were made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our revenues may decrease substantially and we could be exposed to significant liability. If we or the manufacturers of our products fail to comply with the FDA’s quality system regulation, the manufacturing and distribution of our products could be interrupted, and our product sales and operating results could suffer. We and our contract manufacturers are required to comply with the FDA’s quality system regulation, or QSR, which is a complex regulation that governs the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our devices. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic inspections. We cannot assure you that our facilities or the facilities of the manufacturers of our products would pass any future inspection. If our or any of the facilities of the manufacturers of our products fail an inspection, the manufacturing or distribution of our products could be interrupted and our operations disrupted. Failure to take adequate and timely corrective action in response to an adverse inspection could result in a suspension or shutdown of our packaging and labeling operations and the operations of the manufacturers of our products or a recall of our products, or other administrative or judicial sanctions. If any of these events occurs, we may not be able to provide our customers with the quantity of products they require on a timely basis, our reputation could be harmed, and we could lose customers and suffer reduced revenues and increased costs. 20 Our products may be subject to recalls, even after receiving FDA clearance or approval, which would harm our reputation, business and financial results. We are subject to the medical device reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or have malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to occur. We are also subject to the correction and removal reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA any field corrections and device recalls or removals that we undertake to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, caused by the device which may present a risk to health. In addition, the FDA and similar governmental agencies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products if there is a reasonable probability that the products would cause serious adverse health consequences or death. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of manufacturing defects, labeling deficiencies, packaging defects or other failures to comply with applicable regulations. Any recall would divert management attention and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to federal and state laws prohibiting “kickbacks” and false or fraudulent claims, which, if violated, could subject us to substantial penalties. Additionally, any challenge to or investigation into our practices under these laws could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business. A federal law commonly known as the federal anti-kickback law, and several similar state laws, prohibit the payment of any remuneration that is intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of health care products or services. These laws constrain a medical device company’s sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of business relationships and financial arrangements, including sales programs we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of medical devices. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. From time to time, we may provide coding and billing information as product support to purchasers of our products. Anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance, which can be quite substantial including exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. A number of states have enacted laws that require pharmaceutical and medical device companies to monitor and report payments, gifts and other remuneration made to physicians and other health care professionals and health care organizations. Some state statutes, such as the one in Massachusetts, impose an outright ban on gifts to physicians. These laws are often referred to as “gift ban” or “aggregate spend” laws and carry substantial fines if they are violated. Similar legislation, known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, has been introduced in Congress each year for the past several years but has not yet been enacted. In the event that we are found to have violated these laws or determine to settle a claim that we have done so, our business may be materially adversely affected as a result of any payments required to be made, restrictions on our future operations or actions required to be taken, damage to our business reputation or adverse publicity in connection with such a finding or settlement or other adverse effects relating thereto. Additionally, even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. In February 2009, we announced that we had reached a resolution with the United States Department of Justice, or DOJ, and the Office of Inspector General, or OIG, of the United States Department of Health and Human Services regarding the previously-disclosed investigation into certain of our past sales and marketing practices relating to our NC-stat System. As part of the resolution with the DOJ and OIG, we entered into a three-year Deferred Prosecution Agreement with the DOJ and a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement with the OIG. Failure to comply with the terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement and the Corporate Integrity Agreement could result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and being excluded from government health care programs, which could materially reduce our sales and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are found to have violated laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities, damage our reputation and harm our business. There are a number of federal and state laws protecting the confidentiality of individually identifiable patient health information, including patient records, and restricting the use and disclosure of that protected information. In particular, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services promulgated patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. These privacy rules protect medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting of their own health information and limiting most use and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose. Although we do not believe that we are subject to the HIPAA rules, the exact scope of these rules has not been clearly established. If we are found to be in violation of the privacy rules under HIPAA, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business. 21 The use of our products could result in product liability claims that could be expensive, damage our reputation and harm our business. Our business exposes us to an inherent risk of potential product liability claims related to the manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical devices. The medical device industry historically has been litigious, and we face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of our products were to cause or contribute to injury or death. Our NC-stat and ADVANCE systems and NC-stat DPNCheck may be susceptible to claims of injury because their use involves the electric stimulation of a patient’s nerves. Although we maintain product liability insurance for our products and other commercial insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. As sales and use of our products increase, we may be unable to maintain sufficient product liability or other commercial insurance on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs, and this insurance may not provide us with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. A successful claim brought against us in excess of, or outside of, our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in substantial costs to us, a substantial diversion of management attention and adverse publicity. A product liability claim could also harm our reputation and result in a decline in revenues and an increase in expenses. Our products are complex in design, and defects may not be discovered prior to shipment to customers, which could result in warranty obligations or product liability or other claims, reducing our revenues and increasing our costs and liabilities. We depend upon third parties for the manufacture of our products. Our products, particularly our electrodes, require a significant degree of technical expertise to produce. If these manufacturers fail to produce our products to specification, or if the manufacturers use defective materials or workmanship in the manufacturing process, the reliability and performance of our products will be compromised. If our products contain defects that cannot be repaired quickly, easily and inexpensively, we may experience: ·loss of customer orders and delay in order fulfillment; ·damage to our brand reputation; ·increased cost of our warranty program due to product repair or replacement; ·inability to attract new customers; ·diversion of resources from our manufacturing and research and development departments into our service department; and ·legal action. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing could harm our reputation and materially reduce our revenues and increase our costs and liabilities. If we lose any of our officers or key employees, our management and technical expertise could be weakened significantly. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience, and efforts of our officers, including Shai N. Gozani, M.D., Ph.D., our founder, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Thomas T. Higgins, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Krishnamurthy Balachandran, our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Neurodiagnostics; Guy Daniello, our Senior Vice President of Information Technology; and Michael Williams, Ph.D., our Senior Vice President of Engineering and Chief Technology Officer. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies covering any of our employees. The loss of any of our officers could weaken our management and technical expertise significantly and harm our business. If we are unable to recruit, hire and retain skilled and experienced personnel, our ability to manage and expand our business will be harmed, which would impair our future revenues and profitability. We are a small company with only 58 employees as of December 31, 2011, and our ability to retain our skilled labor force and our success in attracting and hiring new skilled employees will be a critical factor in determining our future performance. We may not be able to meet our future hiring needs or retain existing personnel, particularly given the challenges our business has recently faced. We will face challenges and risks in hiring, training, managing and retaining engineering and sales and marketing employees. Failure to attract and retain personnel, particularly technical and sales and marketing personnel would materially harm our ability to compete effectively and grow our business. 22 Failure to develop or enter into relationships to sell products other than our existing products or enhance our existing products could have an adverse effect on our business prospects. Our future business and financial success will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively market new products, such as NC-stat DPNCheck, and upgrade existing products, such as ADVANCE. Developing new products and upgrades to existing and future products imposes burdens on our research and development department and our management. This process is costly, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop new products or enhance the current systems or any of our other current or future products. We also may not be able to enter into relationships with other companies to sell additional products. In addition, as we develop the market for our products, future competitors may develop desirable product features earlier than we do which could make our competitors’ products less expensive or more effective than our products and could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. If our product development efforts are unsuccessful, we will have incurred significant costs without recognizing the expected benefits and our business prospects may suffer. We currently compete, and may in the future need to compete, against other medical device companies with potentially greater resources, more established distribution channels and other competitive advantages, and the success of these competitors may harm our ability to generate revenues. We currently do, and in the future may need to, compete directly and indirectly with a number of other companies that may have competitive advantages over us. We compete with companies that sell traditional nerve conduction study and electromyography equipment including CareFusion Corporation, Cadwell Laboratories, Inc., and Natus Medical Incorporated. These companies enjoy significant competitive advantages, including: ·greater resources for product development, sales and marketing; ·more established distribution networks; ·greater name recognition; ·more established relationships with health care professionals, customers and third-party payers; and ·additional lines of products and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer discounts or incentives. As we develop the market for point-of-care nerve testing, particularly treatment of diabetic neuropathy, we may be faced with competition from these companies or others that decide and are able to enter this market. Some or all of our future competitors in the point-of-care market may enjoy competitive advantages such as those described above. If we are unable to compete effectively against existing and future competitors, our sales will decline and our business will be harmed. We are dependent upon the computer and communications infrastructure employed and utilized by our customer information system and any failures or disruptions in this infrastructure could impact our revenues and profit margins or harm our reputation. We are dependent upon the computer and communications infrastructure employed and utilized by our customer information system. Our computer and communications infrastructure consists of standard hardware, off-the-shelf system software components, database servers, proprietary application servers, a modem bank and desktop applications. Our future success will depend, in part, upon the maintenance and growth of this infrastructure. Any failures or outages of this infrastructure as a result of a regulatory action by the FDA, computer virus, intentional disruption of our systems by a third-party, manufacturing failure, telephone system failure, fire, storm, flood, power loss or other similar events, could prevent or delay the operation of our onCall Information System, which could result in increased costs to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns and harm our reputation with our customers. In addition, if our infrastructure fails to accommodate growth in customer transactions, customer satisfaction could be impaired, we could lose customers, our ability to add customers could be impaired or our costs could be increased, any of which would harm our business. If future clinical studies or other articles are published, or physician associations or other organizations announce positions that are unfavorable to our products, our sales efforts and revenues may be negatively affected. Future clinical studies or other articles regarding our existing products or any competing products may be published that either support a claim, or are perceived to support a claim, that a competitor’s product is more accurate or effective than our products or that our products are not as accurate or effective as we claim or previous clinical studies have concluded. Additionally, physician associations or other organizations that may be viewed as authoritative or have an economic interest in nerve conduction studies and in related electrodiagnostic procedures or other procedures that may be performed using our products could endorse products or methods that compete with our products or otherwise announce positions that are unfavorable to our products. We have experienced this with the professional societies representing the neurology community. Any of these events may negatively affect our sales efforts and result in decreased revenues. 23 As we continue to expand into foreign markets, we will be affected by new business risks that may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Foreign markets represented approximately 6% of our revenues in 2011. We are working to expand market penetration, particularly in Europe. As we continue to expand into foreign markets, we will be subject to new business risks, including: ·failure to fulfill foreign regulatory requirements to market our products; ·availability of, and changes in, reimbursement within prevailing foreign health care payment systems; ·adapting to the differing business practices and laws in foreign countries; ·difficulties in managing foreign relationships and operations, including any relationships that we establish with foreign distributors or sales or marketing agents; ·limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; ·difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; ·costs of enforcing contractual obligations in foreign jurisdictions; ·recessions in economies outside of the United States; ·political instability and unexpected changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; ·currency exchange rate fluctuations; and ·potentially adverse tax consequences. If we are successful in introducing our products into foreign markets, we will be affected by these additional business risks, which may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, expansion into foreign markets imposes additional burdens on our executive and administrative personnel, research and sales departments, and general managerial resources. Our efforts to introduce our products into foreign markets may not be successful, in which case we may have expended significant resources without realizing the expected benefit. Ultimately, the investment required for expansion into foreign markets could exceed the revenues generated from expansion. Our loan and security agreement with Comerica Bank, which we refer to as our Comerica credit facility, contains financial and operating restrictions that may limit our access to credit. If we fail to comply with covenants in the Comerica credit facility, we may be required to repay any indebtedness thereunder, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Although we have not borrowed any funds under the Comerica credit facility, provisions in the Comerica credit facility impose restrictions on our ability to, among other things: ·incur additional indebtedness; ·create liens; ·replace certain of our executive officers; ·enter into transactions with affiliates; ·transfer assets; ·pay dividends or make distributions on, or repurchase, our capital stock; and ·merge or consolidate. 24 In addition, we are required to meet certain financial covenants customary with this type of credit facility, including maintaining a minimum specified tangible net worth. The Comerica credit facility also contains other customary covenants. We may not be able to comply with these covenants in the future. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in the declaration of an event of default and could cause us to be unable to borrow under the Comerica credit facility. In addition to preventing additional borrowings under the Comerica credit facility, an event of default, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding under the Comerica credit facility at the time of the default, which would require us to pay all amounts outstanding. If an event of default occurs, we may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or we may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we choose to acquire or invest in new businesses, products or technologies, instead of developing them ourselves, these acquisitions or investments could disrupt our business and could result in the use of significant amounts of equity, cash or a combination of both. From time to time we may seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies, instead of developing them ourselves. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: ·the inability to complete the acquisition or investment; ·disruption of our ongoing businesses and diversion of management attention; ·difficulties in integrating the acquired entities, products or technologies; ·difficulties in operating the acquired business profitably; ·the inability to achieve anticipated synergies, cost savings or growth; ·potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired business; ·difficulties in transitioning and maintaining key customer, distributor and supplier relationships; ·risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and ·unanticipated costs. In addition, any future acquisitions or investments may result in one or more of the following: ·issuances of dilutive equity securities, which may be sold at a discount to market price; ·the use of significant amounts of cash; ·the incurrence of debt; ·the assumption of significant liabilities; ·increased operating costs or reduced earnings; ·financing obtained on unfavorable terms; ·large one-time expenses; and ·the creation of certain intangible assets, including goodwill, the write-down of which may result in significant charges to earnings. Any of these factors could materially harm our stock price, our business, or our operating results. 25 We may be required to raise additional funds to finance our operations and remain a going concern; we may not be able to do so when necessary, and/or the terms of any financings may not be advantageous to us. We held cash and cash equivalents of $10.3 million as of December 31, 2011. On February 13, 2012 we closed a public securities offering that generated $8.5 million in gross proceeds and, after transaction costs and fees, yielded approximately $7.5 million in net proceeds. We believe that these resources and the cash to be generated from expected product sales will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. We continue to face significant challenges and uncertainties and, as a result, our available capital resources may be consumed more rapidly than currently expected due to (a) decreases in sales of our products and the uncertainty of future revenues from new products; (b) changes we may make to the business that affect ongoing operating expenses; (c) changes we may make in our business strategy; (d) regulatory developments affecting our existing products and delays in the FDA approval process for products under development; (e) changes in our research and development spending plans; and (f) other items affecting our forecasted level of expenditures and use of cash resources. Accordingly, we may need to raise additional funds to support our operating and capital needs. We may attempt to obtain additional funding through public or private financing, collaborative arrangements with strategic partners, or through additional credit lines or other debt financing sources to increase the funds available to fund operations. However, we may not be able to secure such financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms, if at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Without additional funds, we may be forced to delay, scale back or eliminate some of our sales and marketing efforts, research and development activities, or other operations and potentially delay product development in an effort to provide sufficient funds to continue our operations. If any of these events occurs, our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals would be adversely affected. If we sell additional shares, our stock price may decline as a result of the dilution which will occur to existing stockholders. Until we are profitable, we will need significant additional funds to develop our business and sustain our operations. Any additional sales of shares of our common stock and other securities exercisable into our common stock are likely to have a dilutive effect on some or all of our then existing stockholders. Resales of newly issued shares in the open market could also have the effect of lowering our stock price, thereby increasing the number of shares we may need to issue in the future to raise the same dollar amount and consequently further diluting our outstanding shares. The perceived risk associated with the possible sale of a large number of shares could cause some of our stockholders to sell their stock, thus causing the price of our stock to decline. In addition, actual or anticipated downward pressure on our stock price due to actual or anticipated issuances or sales of stock could cause some institutions or individuals to engage in short sales of our common stock, which may itself cause the price of our stock to decline. If our stock price declines, we may be unable to raise additional capital. A sustained inability to raise capital could force us to go out of business. Significant declines in the price of our common stock could also impair our ability to attract and retain qualified employees, reduce the liquidity of our common stock and result in the delisting of our common stock from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, or NASDAQ. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to be volatile in the future. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. Since our public offering in July 2004 through February 1, 2012 our stock price has fluctuated from a low of $1.15 to a high of $247.14. The market price for our common stock will be affected by a number of factors, including: • the denial or delay of regulatory clearances or approvals for our products under development or receipt of regulatory approval of competing products; • our ability to accomplish clinical, regulatory and other product development milestones and to do so in accordance with our timing estimates; • changes in policies affecting third-party coverage and reimbursement in the United States and other countries; • changes in government regulations and standards affecting the medical device industry and our products; • ability of our products to achieve market success; 26 • the performance of third-party contract manufacturers and component suppliers; • actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • announcements of new products, technological innovations or product advancements by us or our competitors; • developments with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights; • sales of common stock or other securities by us or our stockholders in the future; • additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel; • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • trading volume of our common stock; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, failure to obtain or maintain analyst coverage of our common stock or our failure to achieve analyst earnings estimates; • public statements by analysts or clinicians regarding their perceptions of our clinical results or the effectiveness of our products; • decreases in market valuations of medical device companies; and • general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. The stock prices of many companies in the medical device industry have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities can result in securities class action litigation against a company. If class action litigation is initiated against us, we may incur substantial costs and our management’s attention may be diverted from our operations, which could significantly harm our business. Our stock has previously been subject to delisting proceedings on NASDAQ and could be subject to such proceedings in the future which could affect its market price and liquidity and reduce our ability to raise capital. Currently, our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Capital Market. We have previously received notifications from NASDAQ informing us of certain listing deficiencies, including failure to satisfy the minimum bid price and the minimum stockholders’ equity. Although we have since cured these deficiencies, it is possible that we could fall out of compliance again in the future. If we fail to maintain compliance with any listing requirements, we could be delisted and our stock would be considered a penny stock under regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and would therefore be subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our securities. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the common stock and your ability to sell our securities in the secondary market. The low trading volume of our common stock may adversely affect the price of our shares. Although our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock has experienced low trading volume. The 50 day average trading volume through February 1, 2012 as reported by NASDAQ was approximately 19,000 shares. Limited trading volume may subject our common stock to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for investors to sell shares at a price that is attractive to them. 27 Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law, and the shareholder rights plan that we previously adopted in 2007, may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our Board of Directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions: ·authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the Board of Directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock; ·provide for a classified Board of Directors, with each director serving a staggered three-year term; ·prohibit our stockholders from filling board vacancies, calling special stockholder meetings, or taking action by written consent; ·provide for the removal of a director only with cause and by the affirmative vote of the holders of 75% or more of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of our directors; and ·require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or could discourage a third party from acquiring, us or a large block of our common stock. A third party that acquires 15% or more of our common stock could suffer substantial dilution of its ownership interest under the terms of the shareholder rights plan through the issuance of common stock to all stockholders other than the acquiring person. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our Board of Directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current Board of Directors, including a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our Board of Directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of our Comerica credit facility precludes us from paying any dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders’ sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 