Item 1A. Risk Factors B-12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments B-17 Item 2. Properties B-18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings B-19 Item 4. Removed and Reserved B-19 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities B-19 Item 6. Selected Financial Data B-22 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations B-23 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk B-56 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data B-59 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure B-107 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures B-107 Item 9B. Other Information B-107 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of the Registrant B-108 Item 11. Executive Compensation B-108 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters B-108 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence B-108 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services B-108 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules B-109 Signatures B-113 B-4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW EnerSys (the “Company,” “we,” or “us”) is the world’s largest manufacturer, marketer and distributor of industrial batteries. We also manufacture, market and distribute related products such as chargers, power equipment and battery accessories, and we provide related after-market and customer-support services for industrial batteries. We market and sell our products globally to over 10,000 customers in more than 100 countries through a network of distributors, independent representatives and our internal sales force. We have two primary industrial battery product lines: reserve power products and motive power products. Net sales classifications by product line are as follows: • Reserve power products are used for backup power for the continuous operation of critical applications in telecommunications systems, uninterruptible power systems, or UPS, applications for computer and computer-controlled systems, and other specialty power applications, including security systems, for premium starting, lighting and ignition applications, in switchgear and electrical control systems used in electric utilities and energy pipelines, and in commercial aircraft and military aircraft, submarines, ships and tactical vehicles. • Motive power products are used to provide power for manufacturing, warehousing and other material handling equipment, primarily electric industrial forklift trucks, mining equipment, and for diesel locomotive starting, rail car lighting and rail signaling equipment. We operate and manage our business in three geographic regions of the world—Americas, Europe and Asia, as described below. Our business is highly decentralized with manufacturing locations throughout the world. More than half of our manufacturing capacity is located outside of the United States, and approximately 60% of our net sales were generated outside of the United States. Under the criteria of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) guidance, the Company has three reportable business segments based on geographic regions, defined as follows: • Americas, which includes North and South America, with our segment headquarters in Reading, Pennsylvania, USA, • Europe, which includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa, with our segment headquarters in Zurich, Switzerland, and • Asia, which includes Asia, Australia and Oceania, with our segment headquarters in Singapore. Additionally, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on segment reporting and Note 24 for revenue by country, revenues by key product lines and other required disclosures. Fiscal Year Reporting In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, when we refer to our fiscal years, we say “fiscal” and the year number, as in “fiscal 2010”, which refers to our fiscal year ended March 31, 2010. The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods, except for the first quarter, which always begins on April 1, and the fourth quarter, which always ends on March 31. The four fiscal quarters in 2010 ended on June 28, 2009, September 27, 2009, December 27, 2009, and March 31, 2010, respectively. The four fiscal quarters in 2009 ended on June 29, 2008, September 28, 2008, December 28, 2008, and March 31, 2009, respectively. History EnerSys and its predecessor companies have been manufacturers of industrial batteries for over 100 years. Morgan Stanley Capital Partners teamed with the management of Yuasa, Inc. in late 2000 to acquire from Yuasa B-5 Table of Contents Corporation (Japan) its reserve power and motive power battery businesses in North and South America. We were incorporated in October 2000 for the purpose of completing the Yuasa, Inc. acquisition. On January 1, 2001, we changed our name from Yuasa, Inc. to EnerSys to reflect our focus on the energy systems nature of our businesses. Today, our reserve power batteries are marketed and sold principally under the PowerSafe, DataSafe, EcoSafe, Hawker, Genesis, Odyssey, Varta, Oerlikon Battery and Cyclon brands. Our motive power batteries are marketed and sold principally under the Hawker, EnerSys Ironclad, General Battery, Fiamm Motive Power, Douglas and Express brands. We also manufacture and sell related DC power products including chargers, electronic power equipment and a wide variety of battery accessories. Our battery products span a broad range of sizes, configurations and electrical capacities, enabling us to meet a wide variety of customer applications. In August 2004, EnerSys completed an initial public offering (the “IPO”). The Company’s Registration Statement (SEC File No. 333-115553) for its IPO was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on July 26, 2004. The Company’s common stock commenced trading on the New York Stock Exchange on July 30, 2004, under the trading symbol “ENS.” We have expanded our product offerings and services globally through internal growth and acquisitions. During March 2002, we acquired the reserve power and motive power business of the Energy Storage Group of Invensys plc. (“ESG”). In June 2005, we acquired the motive power battery business of FIAMM, S.p.A. (“FIAMM”), which complements our European motive power business. During fiscal 2006 and 2007, we made a number of smaller acquisitions, including a producer of specialty nickel-based batteries based in Germany; a producer of lithium power sources, primarily for aerospace and defense applications, located in the United States; a lead-acid battery business in Switzerland; and a manufacturing facility in China. During fiscal 2008, we acquired an approximate 97% interest in Energia AD, an industrial battery producer, now known as EnerSys AD (“Energia”), in Bulgaria. During fiscal 2010, the Company made several acquisitions, the most significant of which was the acquisition of the industrial battery businesses of the Swiss company Accu Holding AG, which included the acquisition of the stock of OEB Traction Batteries and the operating assets and liabilities of Oerlikon Stationery Batteries and its Swedish sales subsidiary (all collectively referred to as “Oerlikon”). These acquisitions and the investment provide the Company with an additional range of well respected and designed products for use in high integrity applications in telecommunications, utilities, rail, material handling and mining, and other sectors. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial position is strong and we have substantial liquidity with approximately $201 million of available cash and short-term investments. In addition to cash flows from operating activities, we had available committed and uncommitted credit lines of approximately $247 million at March 31, 2010 and $265 million at March 31, 2009 to cover short-term liquidity requirements. On a long-term basis, our senior secured revolving credit facility is committed through June 2013 as long as we continue to comply with its covenants and conditions. During the first quarter of fiscal 2009, we refinanced the majority of our debt with a new $350 million senior secured credit facility and the issuance of $172.5 million of senior unsecured 3.375% Convertible Notes due 2038, unless earlier converted, redeemed or repurchased. This refinancing was completed during favorable debt market conditions and significantly enhanced our liquidity, extended our debt maturities and lowered our cash interest costs. (See Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS and Notes 8 and 11 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8). B-6 Table of Contents Restructuring Plans In connection with the acquisition of Oerlikon in fiscal 2010, we commenced restructuring activities to integrate Oerlikon into our European operations. The accounting for the Oerlikon acquisition also resulted in the recognition of a bargain purchase gain of $2.9 million. During February and May 2009, we also announced a plan to restructure our European and American operations, which will eliminate approximately 515 employees upon completion across our operations. These actions are primarily in Europe, the most significant of which was the closure of our leased Italian manufacturing facility and the opening of a new Italian distribution center, both occurring in 2010 to continue to provide responsive service to our customers in that market. We estimate that the total charges for these actions will amount to approximately $33.0 million, which includes cash expenses of approximately $24.0 million, primarily for employee severance-related payments, and a non-cash charge of approximately $9.0 million, primarily for impairment of fixed assets. Through March 31, 2010, we have expensed $31.5 million for these restructuring programs. Following the May 2007 acquisition of approximately a 97% interest in Energia, we announced our commitment to restructure certain operations primarily to facilitate the integration of Energia into the Company’s worldwide operations. This restructuring program is near completion and we have incurred a total charge of $17 million, which included cash expenses of approximately $12.5 million, primarily for employee severance-related payments, and a non-cash charge of approximately $4.5 million, primarily for impairment of fixed assets. (See Cost Savings Initiatives-Restructuring in Item 7 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS and Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8). Segments The Company operates in three business segments: (1) Americas, which includes North and South America (2) Europe, which includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and (3) Asia, which includes Asia, Australia and Oceania. Each business segment operates predominantly in one industry, the industrial battery industry, and our products are organized under two major product lines, reserve power products and motive power products. Financial information about our business segments is included in Note 24 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Our Customers We serve over 10,000 customers in over 100 countries, on a direct basis or through our distributors. We are not overly dependent on any particular end market. Our customer base is highly diverse and no single customer accounts for more than 5% of our revenues. Product Lines Our reserve power customers consist of regional customers as well as global customers. These customers are in diverse markets including telecom, UPS, electric utilities, security systems, emergency lighting and premium starting, lighting and ignition applications. In addition, we sell our aerospace and defense products in numerous countries, including the governments of the U.S., Germany and the U.K. and to major defense and aviation original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”). Our motive power products are sold to a large, diversified customer base. These customers include material handling equipment dealers, OEMs and end users of such equipment. End users include manufacturers, distributors, warehouse operators, retailers, airports, mine operators and railroads. B-7 Table of Contents Distribution and Services We distribute, sell and service reserve power products globally through a combination of company-owned offices, independent manufacturers’ representatives and distributors managed by our regional sales managers. With our global manufacturing locations and regional warehouses, we believe we are well positioned to meet our customers’ delivery and servicing requirements. We have targeted our approach to meet local market conditions, which we believe provides the best possible service for our regional customers and our global accounts. We distribute, sell and service our motive power products throughout the world, principally through company-owned sales and service facilities, as well as through independent manufacturers’ representatives. We believe we are one of the only battery manufacturers in the motive power battery industry that operates a primarily company-owned service network. This company-owned network allows us to offer high-quality service, including preventative maintenance programs and customer support. Our warehouses and service locations enable us to respond quickly to customers in the markets we serve. We believe that the extensive industry experience of our sales organization results in strong long-term customer relationships. Manufacturing and Raw Materials We manufacture and assemble reserve power and motive power batteries and related products at manufacturing facilities located in the Americas, Europe and Asia. With a view toward projected demand, we strive to optimize and balance capacity at our battery manufacturing facilities located throughout the world, while simultaneously minimizing our product cost. By taking a global view of our manufacturing requirements and capacity, we are better able to anticipate potential capacity bottlenecks and equipment and capital funding needs. The primary raw materials used to manufacture our products include lead, plastics, steel and copper. We purchase lead from a number of leading suppliers throughout the world. Because lead is traded on the world’s commodity markets and its price fluctuates daily, we periodically enter into hedging arrangements for a portion of our projected requirements to reduce the volatility of our costs. Competition The industrial battery market is highly competitive both among competitors who manufacture and sell industrial batteries and among customers who purchase industrial batteries. Our competitors range from development stage companies to major domestic and international corporations. We also compete with other energy storage technologies. We compete primarily on the basis of reputation, product quality, reliability of service, delivery and price. We believe that our products and services are competitively priced. Europe We believe we have the largest market share in the European industrial battery market. We compete principally with Exide Technologies in the reserve and motive products markets; FIAMM, NorthStar, SAFT as well as Chinese producers in the reserve products market; and Hoppecke in the motive products market. Americas We believe we have the largest market share for the Americas industrial battery market. We compete principally with Exide Technologies and East Penn Manufacturing in the reserve and motive products markets; C&D Technologies Inc., NorthStar, SAFT and EaglePicher (OM Group) in the reserve products market; and Crown Battery Manufacturing Co. in the motive products market. B-8 Table of Contents Asia We have a small share of the fragmented Asian industrial battery market. We compete principally with GS Yuasa in the reserve and motive products markets; Coslight, Narada and China Shoto in the reserve products market; and JSB and Shinkobe in the motive products market. Warranties Warranties for our products vary geographically and by product type and are competitive with other suppliers of these types of products. Generally, our reserve power product warranties range from one to twenty years and our motive power product warranties range from one to seven-years. The length of our warranties is sometimes extended to reflect varied regional characteristics and competitive influences. In some cases, our warranty period may include a pro rata period, which is typically based around the design life of the product and the application served. Our warranties generally cover defects in workmanship and materials and are limited to specific usage parameters. Intellectual Property We have numerous patents and patent licenses in the United States and other jurisdictions but do not consider any one patent to be material to our business. From time to time, we apply for patents on new inventions and designs, but we believe that the growth of our business will depend primarily upon the quality of our products and our relationships with our customers, rather than the extent of our patent protection. Although other manufacturers may possess certain thin-plate pure-lead technology (“TPPL”), we believe we are the only manufacturer of products using TPPL technology in the reserve and motive power markets. Some aspects of this technology may be patented in the future. In any event, we believe that a significant capital investment would be required by any party desiring to produce products using TPPL technology for these markets. We own or possess exclusive and non-exclusive licenses and other rights to use a number of trademarks in various jurisdictions. We have obtained registrations for many of these trademarks in the United States and other jurisdictions. Our various trademark registrations currently have durations of approximately 10 to 20 years, varying by mark and jurisdiction of registration and may be renewable. We endeavor to keep all of our material registrations current. We believe that many such rights and licenses are important to our business by helping to develop strong brand-name recognition in the marketplace. Some of the significant (registered and unregistered) trademarks that we use include: Aquafree, Armasafe plus, Combitrac, Compact Power, Cyclon, DataSafe, Deserthog, Douglas Battery, Douglas Legacy, EcoSafe, Electrona, Energia, Energy Plus, EnerSys Ironclad, Envirolink, Eon Technology, Express, FIAMM Motive Power, General Battery, Genesis, Hawker, HUP, LifeGuard, LifePlus, Life Speed, Loadhog, Odyssey, Oerlikon Battery, Oldham, PowerGuard, PowerLease, Powerline, PowerPlus, PowerSafe, Rackline, Redion, Smarthog, Superhog, Supersafe, Varta, Waterless and Workhog. Seasonality Our business generally does not experience significant quarterly fluctuations in net sales as a result of weather or other trends that can be directly linked to seasonality patterns. However, our second fiscal quarter normally experiences moderate reductions in net sales compared to our first fiscal quarter for that year, due to summer manufacturing shutdowns of our customers and holidays primarily in North America and Western Europe. Our fourth fiscal quarter normally experiences the highest sales of any fiscal quarter within a given year. Many reserve power telecommunications customers tend to perform extensive service and engage in higher battery replacement and maintenance activities in the first calendar quarter of a year, which is our fourth fiscal quarter. In addition, many of our largest industrial customers are on a calendar year basis and many tend to also purchase their durable goods more heavily in our fourth fiscal quarter than within any other fiscal quarter. B-9 Table of Contents However, global economic conditions had a significant impact on our sales in the past two years. After increasing modestly in the first fiscal quarter of 2009 over the last fiscal quarter of 2008, worldwide sales declined sequentially by 11.0%, 12.5% and 14.7% in the second, third and fourth fiscal quarters of 2009, respectively. After decreasing by 13.5% in the first fiscal quarter of 2010 from the last fiscal quarter of 2009, worldwide sales increased sequentially by 8.0%, 14.7% and 7.0% in the second, third and fourth fiscal quarters of 2010, respectively, as global economic activity improved. Product and Process Development Our product and process development efforts are focused on the creation and optimization of new battery products using existing technologies, which, in certain cases, differentiate our stored energy solutions from that of our competition. We allocate our resources to the following key areas: • the design and development of new products; • optimizing and expanding our existing product offering; • waste and scrap reduction; • production efficiency and utilization; • capacity expansion without additional facilities; and • quality attribute maximization. Employees At March 31, 2010, we had approximately 7,800 employees. Of these employees, approximately 2,870, almost all of whom work in our European facilities, were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The average term of these agreements is two years, with the longest term being three years. These agreements expire over the period from calendar years 2010 to 2012. We consider our employee relations to be good. Historically, we have not experienced any significant labor unrest or disruption of production. Environmental Matters In the manufacture of our products throughout the world, we process, store, dispose of and otherwise use large amounts of hazardous materials, especially lead and acid. As a result, we are subject to extensive and changing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the generation, handling, storage, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; and the health and safety of our employees. In addition, we are required to comply with the regulation issued from the European Economic Union called Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals or “REACH,” that entered into force on June 1, 2007. Under the regulation, companies which manufacture or import more than one ton of a chemical substance per year will be required to register it in a central database administered by the new European Chemicals Agency. REACH will require a registration, over a period of 11 years, of some 30,000 chemical substances. Compliance with these laws and regulations results in ongoing costs. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations, or to obtain or comply with required environmental permits, could result in fines, criminal charges or other sanctions by regulators. From time to time, we have had instances of alleged or actual noncompliance that have resulted in the imposition of fines, penalties and required corrective actions. Our ongoing compliance with environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permits could require us to incur significant expenses, limit our ability to modify or expand our facilities or continue production and require us to install additional pollution control equipment and make other capital improvements. In addition, private parties, including current or former employees, could bring personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or their exposure to, hazardous substances used, stored, transported or disposed of by us or contained in our products. B-10 Table of Contents Certain environmental laws assess liability on owners or operators of real property for the cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their current or former properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. These laws may also assess costs to repair damage to natural resources. We may be responsible for remediating damage to our properties that was caused by former owners. Soil and groundwater contamination has occurred at some of our current and former properties and may occur or be discovered at other properties in the future. In addition, we have been and may, in the future be liable to contribute to the cleanup of locations owned or operated by other persons to which we or our predecessor companies have sent wastes for disposal, pursuant to federal and other environmental laws. Under these laws, the owner or operator of contaminated properties and companies that generated, disposed of or arranged for the disposal of wastes sent to a contaminated disposal facility can be held jointly and severally liable for the investigation and cleanup of such properties, regardless of fault. Sumter, South Carolina We currently are responsible for certain environmental obligations at our former battery facility in Sumter, South Carolina. This battery facility was closed in 2001 and is separate from our current metal fabrication facility in Sumter. We are subject to ongoing storm water inspection requirements under a 2000 Consent Order based on suspected lead contamination. There may be other unidentified contaminants in the soil or groundwater that also predate our ownership of this facility. We have established a reserve for this facility. As of March 31, 2010, the reserves related to this facility totaled approximately $3.7 million. Based on current information, we believe this reserve is adequate to satisfy our environmental liabilities at this facility. Manchester, England In the first fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company sold its Manchester, England manufacturing facility. The new owners assumed the related environmental obligations and, accordingly, we removed the approximate $6.6 million of environmental reserves associated with this location. Environmental and safety certifications Eleven of our facilities in the United States, Europe and Asia are certified to ISO 14001 standards. ISO 14001 is a globally recognized, voluntary program that focuses on the implementation, maintenance and continual improvement of an environmental management system and the improvement of environmental performance. Two facilities in Europe are certified to OHSAS 18001 standards. Quality Systems We utilize a global strategy for quality management systems, policies and procedures, the basis of which is the ISO 9001:2000 standard, which is a worldwide recognized quality standard. We believe in the principles of this standard and reinforce this by requiring mandatory compliance for all manufacturing, sales and service locations that are registered to the ISO 9001 standard. This strategy enables us to provide effective products and services to meet our customers’ needs. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. These filings are available to the public on the Internet at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room, located at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room. Our Internet address is http://www.enersys.com. We make available free of charge on http://www.enersys.com our annual, quarterly and current reports, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. B-11 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and uncertainties, as well as others described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, could materially and adversely affect our business, our results of operations and financial conditions and could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. Stockholders are cautioned that these and other factors, including those beyond our control, may affect future performance and cause actual results to differ from those which may, from time to time, be anticipated. There may be additional risks that are not presently material or known. See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” All forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf are qualified by the risks described below. We operate in an extremely competitive industry and are subject to continual pricing pressure. We compete with a number of major international manufacturers and distributors, as well as a large number of smaller, regional competitors. Due to excess capacity in some sectors of our industry, consolidation among industrial battery purchasers and the financial difficulties being experienced by several of our competitors, we have been subjected to continual and significant pricing pressures. We anticipate heightened competitive pricing pressure as Chinese and other foreign producers are able to employ labor at significantly lower costs than producers in the U.S. and Western Europe, expand their export capacity and increase their marketing presence in our major U.S. and European markets. Several of our competitors have strong technical, marketing, sales, manufacturing, distribution and other resources, as well as significant name recognition, established positions in the market and long-standing relationships with OEMs and other customers. In addition, certain of our competitors own lead smelting facilities which, during periods of lead cost increases or price volatility, may provide a competitive pricing advantage and reduce their exposure to volatile raw material costs. Our ability to maintain and improve our operating margins has depended, and continues to depend, on our ability to control and reduce our costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to reduce our operating expenses, to raise or maintain our prices or increase our unit volume, in order to maintain or improve our operating results. The current uncertainty in global economic conditions could negatively affect the Company’s operating results. Our operating results are directly affected by the general global economic conditions of the industries in which our major customer groups operate. Our business segments are highly dependent on the economic and market conditions in each of the geographic areas in which we operate. Our products are heavily dependent on the end markets that we serve and our operating results will vary by geographic segment, depending on the economic environment in these markets. Sales of our motive power products, for example, depend significantly on demand for new electric industrial forklift trucks, which in turn depends on end-user demand for additional motive capacity in their distribution and manufacturing facilities. The uncertainty in global economic conditions varies by geographic segment, and can result in substantial volatility in global credit markets. These conditions affect our business by reducing prices that our customers may be able or willing to pay for our products or by reducing the demand for our products, which could in turn negatively impact our sales and earnings generation and result in a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations and financial position. Risk of forced conversion of Convertible Notes Under the terms of our senior unsecured 3.375% Convertible Notes, a holder of Convertible Notes may require the Company to repurchase some or all of the holder’s Convertible Notes for cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change as defined in the indenture and on each of June 1, 2015, 2018, 2023, 2028 and 2033 at a price equal to 100% of the accreted principal amount of the Convertible Notes being repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, in each case. As of March 31, 2010, the Company has $172.5 million of Convertible Notes outstanding. B-12 Table of Contents The Company expects to have the available liquidity, and it is the Company’s current intent to settle the principal amount of any such conversions in cash, and any additional optional conversions in cash, shares of EnerSys common stock or a combination of cash and shares. The Convertible Notes will mature on June 1, 2038, unless earlier converted, redeemed or repurchased by the Company. Reliance on third party relationships and derivative agreements could adversely affect the Company’s business. We depend on third parties, including suppliers, distributors, lead toll operators, freight forwarders, insurance brokers, commodity brokers, major financial institutions and other third party service providers, for key aspects of our business including the provision of derivative contracts to manage risks of: a) lead cost volatility, b) foreign currency exposures and c) interest rate volatility on a portion of our long-term floating-rate debt. Failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations to the Company or the development of factors that materially disrupt our relationships with these third parties could expose us to the risks of high lead costs, unfavorable foreign currency rates and higher interest expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our raw materials costs are volatile and expose us to significant movements in our product costs. Lead is our most significant raw material and is used along with significant amounts of plastics, steel, copper and other materials in our manufacturing processes. We estimate that raw material costs account for over half of our cost of goods sold. The costs of these raw materials, particularly lead, are volatile and beyond our control. Volatile raw material costs can significantly affect our operating results and make period-to-period comparisons extremely difficult. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hedge the costs of our raw material requirements at a reasonable level or pass on to our customers the increased costs of our raw materials. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental, health and safety liabilities, costs, and litigation. In the manufacture of our products throughout the world, we process, store, dispose of and otherwise use large amounts of hazardous materials, especially lead and acid. As a result, we are subject to extensive and changing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the generation, handling, storage, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials; remediation of polluted ground or water; emissions or discharges of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; and the health and safety of our employees. Compliance with these laws and regulations results in ongoing costs. Failure to comply with these laws or regulations, or to obtain or comply with required environmental permits, could result in fines, criminal charges or other sanctions by regulators. From time to time we have had instances of alleged or actual noncompliance that have resulted in the imposition of fines, penalties and required corrective actions. Our ongoing compliance with environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permits could require us to incur significant expenses, limit our ability to modify or expand our facilities or continue production and require us to install additional pollution control equipment and make other capital improvements. In addition, private parties, including current or former employees, could bring personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances used, stored or disposed of by us or contained in our products. Certain environmental laws assess liability on owners or operators of real property for the cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their current or former properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. These laws may also assess costs to repair damage to natural resources. We may be responsible for remediating damage to our properties that was caused by former owners. Soil and groundwater contamination has occurred at some of our current and former properties and may occur or be discovered at other properties in the future. We are currently investigating and monitoring soil and groundwater contamination at several of our properties, in most cases as required by regulatory permitting processes. We may be required to conduct these operations at other properties in the future. In B-13 Table of Contents addition, we have been and in the future may be liable to contribute to the cleanup of locations owned or operated by other persons to which we or our predecessor companies have sent wastes for disposal, pursuant to federal and other environmental laws. Under these laws, the owner or operator of contaminated properties and companies that generated, disposed of or arranged for the disposal of wastes sent to a contaminated disposal facility can be held jointly and severally liable for the investigation and cleanup of such properties, regardless of fault. We cannot assure you that we have been or at all times will be in compliance with environmental laws and regulations or that we will not be required to expend significant funds to comply with, or discharge liabilities arising under, environmental laws, regulations and permits, or that we will not be exposed to material environmental, health or safety litigation. Legislation regarding the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. The European Union has directed that new electrical and electronic equipment not contain certain hazardous substances, including lead and cadmium. Because battery accessories and chargers are subject to this directive, our compliance with the directive directly impacts our manufacturing of these products and could cause certain of our existing inventory to be obsolete. In addition, certain other jurisdictions outside the European Union have implemented, or plan to implement, similar restrictions with various compliance dates. We cannot assure you that we will meet all restrictions by each of the required dates. Inventory obsolescence and our failure to comply could each have an adverse effect on our financial results. We are exposed to exchange rate risks, and our net income and financial condition may suffer due to currency translations. We invoice foreign sales and service transactions in local currencies and translate net sales using actual exchange rates during the period. We translate our non-U.S. assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates as of the balance sheet date. Because a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies, changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, primarily the euro, British pound and Polish zloty, may adversely affect our revenue, cost of revenue and operating margins. For example, foreign currency depreciation against the U.S. dollar will reduce the value of our foreign revenues and operating earnings as well as reduce our net investment in foreign subsidiaries. Approximately 60% of net sales were generated outside of the United States. Most of the risk of fluctuating foreign currencies is in our Europe segment, which comprised approximately 50% of our net sales during the last two fiscal years. The euro is the dominant currency in our European operations. The translation impact from currency fluctuations on net sales and operating earnings in Americas and Asia segments are not significant, as a substantial majority of these net sales and operating earnings are in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies that have been closely correlated to the U.S. dollar. Foreign currency depreciation will make it more expensive for our non-U.S. subsidiaries to purchase certain of our raw material commodities that are priced globally in U.S. dollars, while the related revenue will decrease when translated to U.S. dollars. Significant movements in foreign exchange rates can have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We periodically engage in hedging of our foreign currency exposures, but cannot assure you that we can successfully hedge all of our foreign currency exposures or do so at a reasonable cost. We manufacture and assemble our products primarily in Bulgaria, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Mexico, Poland, the United Kingdom and the United States. Approximately 60% of our sales and expenses are translated in foreign currencies. Our sales revenue, production costs, profit margins and competitive position are affected by the strength of the currencies in countries where we manufacture or purchase goods relative to the strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. Additionally, as we report our B-14 Table of Contents financial statements in the U.S. dollar, our financial results are affected by the strength of the currencies in countries where we have operations relative to the strength of the U.S. dollar. The principal foreign currencies in which we conduct business are the euro, British pound, Polish zloty, Chinese renminbi and Mexican peso. We quantify and monitor our global foreign currency exposures. Our largest foreign currency exposure is from the purchase and conversion of U.S. dollar based lead costs into local currencies in Europe. Additionally, we have currency exposures from intercompany financing and trade transactions. On a selective basis we will enter into foreign currency forward contracts and option contracts to reduce the impact from the volatility of currency movements. Based primarily on statistical currency correlations on our current exposures for fiscal 2010, we are confident that the pretax effect on annual earnings due to changes in the principal currencies in which we conduct our business would not be in excess of approximately $10 million in more than one year out of twenty years. The fiscal 2009 gains exceeded the normal statistical range. The settlement or translation of intercompany financing and trading balances during a period of unusually high volatility of foreign currency exchange rates in fiscal 2009, resulted in a gain of $11.6 million from foreign currency transactions as compared to a loss of $3.0 million in fiscal 2010. We have taken steps that we believe will mitigate the impact of these foreign currency rate fluctuations and such fluctuations were minimized in the fiscal 2010; however, we cannot be certain that foreign currency fluctuations of the size recognized in fiscal 2009 will not occur in the future. Our international operations may be adversely affected by actions taken by foreign governments or other forces or events over which we may have no control. We currently have significant manufacturing and/or distribution facilities outside of the United States, including in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, China, Mexico, Poland, the Czech Republic, Spain, Italy, Bulgaria, Australia, Belgium and Switzerland. We may face political instability and economic uncertainty, cultural and religious differences and difficult labor relations in our foreign operations. We also may face barriers in the form of long-standing relationships between potential customers and their existing suppliers, national policies favoring domestic manufacturers and protective regulations including exchange controls, restrictions on foreign investment or the repatriation of profits or invested capital, changes in export or import restrictions and changes in the tax system or rate of taxation in countries where we do business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop and expand our international operations and sales or that we will be able to overcome the significant obstacles and risks of our international operations. Our failure to introduce new products and product enhancements and broad market acceptance of new technologies introduced by our competitors could adversely affect our business. Many new energy storage technologies have been introduced over the past several years. For certain important and growing markets, such as aerospace and defense, lithium-based battery technologies have large and growing market share. Our ability to achieve significant and sustained penetration of key developing markets, including aerospace & defense, will depend upon our success in developing or acquiring these and other technologies, either independently, through joint ventures or through acquisitions. If we fail to develop or acquire, and manufacture and sell, products that satisfy our customers’ demands, or we fail to respond effectively to new product announcements by our competitors by quickly introducing competitive products, then market acceptance of our products could be reduced and our business could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our lead-acid products will remain competitive with products based on new technologies. We may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary intellectual property and technology. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements and other confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to establish, protect and maintain our proprietary intellectual property and technology and other confidential information. Certain of these technologies, especially TPPL technology, are important to our business and are not protected by patents. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary intellectual property and technology and other confidential information, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property and proprietary technologies. B-15 Table of Contents Relocation of our customers’ operations could adversely affect our business. The trend by a number of our North American and Western European customers to move manufacturing operations and expand their businesses into Asia and other low labor-cost markets may have an adverse impact on our business. As our customers in traditional manufacturing-based industries seek to move their manufacturing operations to lower-cost territories, there is a risk that these customers will source their energy storage products from competitors located in those territories and will cease or reduce the purchase of products from our manufacturing plants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively with manufacturing operations of energy storage products in those territories, whether by establishing or expanding our manufacturing operations in those lower-cost territories or acquiring existing manufacturers. We may fail to implement our cost reduction initiatives successfully and improve our profitability. We must continue to implement cost reduction initiatives to achieve additional cost savings in future periods. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve all of the cost savings that we expect to realize from current or future initiatives. In particular, we may be unable to implement one or more of our initiatives successfully or we may experience unexpected cost increases that offset the savings that we achieve. Given the continued competitive pricing pressures experienced in our industry, our failure to realize cost savings would adversely affect our results of operations. Quality problems with our products could harm our reputation and erode our competitive position. The success of our business will depend upon the quality of our products and our relationships with customers. In the event that our products fail to meet our customers’ standards, our reputation could be harmed, which would adversely affect our marketing and sales efforts. We cannot assure you that our customers will not experience quality problems with our products. We offer our products under a variety of brand names, the protection of which is important to our reputation for quality in the consumer marketplace. We rely upon a combination of trademark, licensing and contractual covenants to establish and protect the brand names of our products. We have registered many of our trademarks in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries. In many market segments, our reputation is closely related to our brand names. Monitoring unauthorized use of our brand names is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent their unauthorized use, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S. We cannot assure you that our brand names will not be misappropriated or utilized without our consent or that such actions will not have a material adverse effect on our reputation and on our results of operations. We may fail to implement our plans to make acquisitions or successfully integrate them into our operations. As part of our business strategy, we have grown, and plan to continue growing, by acquiring other product lines, technologies or facilities that complement or expand our existing business. There is significant competition for acquisition targets in the industrial battery industry. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or negotiate attractive terms. In addition, we may have difficulty obtaining the financing necessary to complete transactions we pursue. In that regard, our credit facilities restrict the amount of additional indebtedness that we may incur to finance acquisitions and place other restrictions on our ability to make acquisitions. Exceeding any of these restrictions would require the consent of our lenders. We may be unable to successfully integrate any assets, liabilities, customers, systems and management personnel we acquire into our operations and we may not be able to realize related revenue synergies and cost savings within expected time frames. Our failure to execute our acquisition strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot assure you that our acquisition strategy will be successful or that we will be able to successfully integrate acquisitions we do make. B-16 Table of Contents Any acquisitions that we complete may dilute stockholder ownership interests in EnerSys, may have adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations and may cause unanticipated liabilities. Future acquisitions may involve the issuance of our equity securities as payment, in part or in full, for the businesses or assets acquired. Any future issuances of equity securities would dilute stockholder ownership interests. In addition, future acquisitions might not increase, and may even decrease our earnings or earnings per share and the benefits derived by us from an acquisition might not outweigh or might not exceed the dilutive effect of the acquisition. We also may incur additional debt or suffer adverse tax and accounting consequences in connection with any future acquisitions. The failure of critical computer systems could seriously affect our sales and operations. We operate a number of critical computer systems throughout our business that can fail for a variety of reasons. If such a failure were to occur, then we may not be able to sufficiently recover from the failure in time to avoid the loss of data or any adverse impact on certain of our operations that are dependent on such systems. This could result in lost sales and the inefficient operation of our facilities for the duration of such a failure. Our ability to maintain adequate credit facilities. Our ability to continue our ongoing business operations and fund future growth depends on our ability to maintain adequate credit facilities and to comply with the financial and other covenants in such credit facilities or to secure alternative sources of financing. However, such credit facilities or alternate financing may not be available or, if available, may not be on terms favorable to us. Our significant indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. As of March 31, 2010, we had $350.5 million of total consolidated debt (including capital lease obligations). This level of debt could: • increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings bear, and will continue to bear, interest at floating rates; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, which would reduce the availability of our cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; • restrict our ability to introduce new products or new technologies or exploit business opportunities; • place us at a disadvantage compared with competitors that have proportionately less debt; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds in the future, if we need them, due to financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements; and • have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with the financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements. This list of factors that may affect future performance includes all material factors of which we are aware. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. B-17 Table of Contents 