ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our LLC interests involves a number of risks. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and a corresponding decline in the market price of the LLC interests. Risks Related to Our Business Operations We own, and may acquire in the future, investments in which we share voting control with third parties and, consequently, our ability to exercise significant influence over the business or level of their distributions to us may be limited. We own 50% of IMTT and 50.01% of DE and may acquire less than majority ownership in other businesses in the future. Our ability to influence the management of businesses in which we own noncontrolling interests, and the ability of these businesses to continue operating without disruption, depends on our reaching agreement with our co-investors and reconciling investment and performance objectives for these businesses. Our co-investors may become bankrupt or may have economic or other business interests that are inconsistent with our interests and goals. To the extent that we are unable to agree with co-investors regarding the business and operations of the relevant investment, the performance of the investment and the operations may suffer, we may not receive anticipated distributions or such distributions may be delayed and there may be a material adverse impact on our results. In addition, we may become involved in costly litigation or other dispute resolution procedures to resolve disagreements with our co-investors, which would divert management’s attention. Furthermore, we may, from time to time, own noncontrolling interests in investments. Management and controlling shareholders of these investments may develop different objectives than we have and we may be unable to control the timing or amount of distributions we receive from these investments. Our inability to exercise significant influence over the operations, strategies and policies of non-controlled investments means that decisions could be made that could adversely affect our results and our ability to generate cash and pay dividends on our LLC interests. See also “Risks Related to IMTT — We share ownership and voting control of IMTT with a third party co-investor. A representative and beneficiary of that co-investor is currently the CEO of IMTT. Our ability to exercise significant influence over the business or level of distributions from IMTT, except pursuant to the Shareholders’ Agreement, is limited, and we have been, and we may again be negatively impacted by disagreements with our co-investor regarding IMTT’s business and operations”. Our holding company structure may limit our ability to make regular dividends in the future to our shareholders because we will rely on the cash flows and distributions from our businesses. The Company is a holding company with no operations. Therefore, it is dependent upon the ability of our businesses and investments to make distributions to the Company to enable it to meet its expenses, and to make dividends to shareholders in the future. The ability of our operating subsidiaries and the businesses in which we will hold investments to make distributions to the Company is subject to limitations based on their operating performance, the terms of their debt agreements, the applicable laws of their respective jurisdictions, and compliance of co-investors with applicable contracts and agreements. In addition, the ability of each business to reduce its outstanding debt will be similarly limited by its operating performance, as discussed below and in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. Fluctuations in economic, equity and credit market conditions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our liquidity or our ability to obtain credit on acceptable terms. Should the economic, equity and credit market conditions become disrupted, our ability to raise equity or obtain capital, to repay or refinance credit facilities at maturity, pay significant capital expenditures or fund growth may be costly and/or impaired. Our access to debt financing in particular will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit history and credit capacity, as well as the historical performance of our businesses and lender perceptions of their and our financial prospects. In the event we are unable to obtain debt financing, particularly as significant credit facilities mature, our internal sources of liquidity may not be sufficient. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS Economic conditions may also increase our counterparty risk, particularly in those businesses whose revenues are determined under multi-year contracts, such as IMTT and businesses within our Contracted Power and Energy segment. Should conditions deteriorate, we would expect to see increases in counterparty defaults and/or bankruptcies, which could result in an increase in bad debt expense and may cause our operating results to decline. The volatility in the financial markets makes projections regarding future obligations under pension plans difficult. Two of our businesses, Hawaii Gas and IMTT, have defined benefit retirement plans. Future funding obligations under those plans depend in large part on the future performance of plan assets and the mix of investment assets. Our defined benefit plans hold a significant amount of equity securities as well as fixed income securities. If the market values of these securities decline or if interest rates decline, our pension expense and cash funding requirements would increase and, as a result, could materially adversely affect the results and liquidity of these businesses and the Company. If borrowing costs increase or if debt terms become more restrictive, the cost of refinancing and servicing our debt will increase, reducing our profitability and ability to freely deploy Free Cash Flow. The majority of indebtedness at our primary businesses matures within three to nine years. Refinancing this debt may result in substantially higher interest rates or margins or substantially more restrictive covenants. Any of these could limit operational flexibility or reduce dividends and/or distributions from our operating businesses to us, which would have an adverse impact on our ability to freely deploy Free Cash Flow. We cannot provide assurance that we or the other owners of any of our businesses will be able to make capital contributions to repay some or all of the debt if required. The debt facilities at our businesses contain terms that become more restrictive over time, with stricter covenants and increased amortization schedules. Those terms will limit our ability to freely deploy Free Cash Flow. Security breaches or interruptions in our information systems could materially adversely affect our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information used to operate our businesses. We also share certain information technology networks with our Manager. The information technology infrastructure we use, as well as the information technology systems used by our Manager, could be vulnerable to security breach, damage or interruption from computer viruses, cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, natural disasters or telecommunications failures. If our technology systems were to fail or be breached and we were unable to recover in a timely manner, we may be unable to fulfill critical business functions and confidential data could be compromised, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Unfavorable publicity or public perception of the industries in which we operate could adversely impact our operating results and our reputation. Accidents and incidents involving the aviation industry, particularly those involving the airports and heliport at which we operate, whether or not directly related to the Company’s services, and the media coverage thereof, can adversely impact the Company’s reputation and the demand for our services. Similarly, negative publicity or public perception of the energy-related industries in which we operate, including through media coverage of environmental contamination and climate change concerns, could reduce demand for our services and harm our reputation. Any reduction in demand for the services our businesses provide or damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business prospects. Our businesses are subject to environmental risks that may impact our future profitability. Our businesses (including businesses in which we invest) are subject to numerous statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection. Atlantic Aviation is subject to environmental protection requirements relating to the storage, transport, pumping and transfer of fuel, and DE is subject to requirements relating mainly to its handling of significant amounts of hazardous materials. Hawaii Gas is subject to risks and hazards associated with the refining, handling, storage and transportation of combustible products. These 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury, loss of life, damage or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage. Any losses we face could be greater than insurance levels maintained by our businesses, which could have an adverse effect on their and our financial results. In addition, disruptions to physical assets could reduce our ability to serve customers and adversely affect sales and cash flows. IMTT’s operations in particular are subject to complex, stringent and expensive environmental regulation and future compliance costs are difficult to estimate with certainty. IMTT also faces risks relating to the handling and transportation of significant amounts of hazardous materials. Failure to comply with regulations or other claims may give rise to interruptions in operations and civil or criminal penalties and liabilities that could adversely affect the profitability of this business and the distributions it makes to us, as could significant unexpected compliance costs. Further, these rules and regulations are subject to change and compliance with any changes, could result in a restriction of the activities of our businesses, significant capital expenditures and/or increased ongoing operating costs. A number of the properties owned by IMTT have been subject to environmental contamination in the past and require remediation for which IMTT is liable. These remediation obligations exist principally at IMTT’s Bayonne and Lemont facilities and could cost more than anticipated or could be incurred earlier than anticipated, or both. In addition, IMTT may discover additional environmental contamination at its Bayonne, Lemont or other facilities that may require remediation at significant cost to IMTT. Further, the past contamination of the properties owned by IMTT, including by former owners or operators of such properties, could result in remediation obligations, personal injury, property damage, environmental damage or similar claims by third parties. We may also be required to address other prior or future environmental contamination, including soil and groundwater contamination that results from the spillage of fuel, hazardous materials or other pollutants. Under various federal, state, local and foreign environmental statutes, rules and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for noncompliance with applicable environmental and health and safety requirements and for the costs of investigation, monitoring, removal or remediation of hazardous materials. These laws often impose liability, whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous materials. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of those materials at the disposal or treatment facility, whether or not that facility is or ever was owned or operated by that person and whether or not the original disposal or treatment activity accorded with all regulatory requirements. The presence of hazardous materials on a property could result in personal injury, loss of life, damage or destruction of property and equipment, environmental damage and/or claims by third parties that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. Energy efficiency and technology advances, as well as conservation efforts and changes in the sources and types of energy produced in the U.S. may result in reduced demand for our products and services. The trend toward increased conservation, as well as technological advances including installation of improved insulation, the development of more efficient heating and cooling devices and advances in energy generation technology, may reduce demand for certain of our products and services. During periods of high energy commodity costs, the prices of certain of our products and services generally increase, which may lead to customer conversation. In addition, federal and/or state regulation may require mandatory conservation measures, which would also reduce demand. The discovery and development of new and unconventional energy sources in the U.S. may drive changes in related energy product logistics chains. The location and exploitation of these new energy sources could result in the dislocation of certain portions of some of our businesses. Either or both of changes in energy supply chain logistics or trends toward increased conservation could reduce demand for our products and services and could adversely affect our results of operations. 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS Climate change, climate change regulations and greenhouse effects may adversely impact our operations and markets. Climate change is receiving increased attention from the scientific and political communities. There is an ongoing debate as to the extent to which our climate is changing, the possible causes of this change and its potential impacts. Some attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The outcome of federal and state actions to address global climate change could result in significant new regulations, additional changes to fund energy efficiency activities or other regulatory actions. These actions could increase the costs of operating our businesses, reduce the demand for our products and services and impact the prices we charge our customers, any or all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, climate change could make severe weather events more frequent, which would increase the likelihood of capital expenditures to replace damaged infrastructure at our businesses. Energy efficiency and technology advances, as well as conservation efforts, may result in reduced demand for our products and services. The trend toward increased conservation, as well as technological advances, including installation of improved insulation, the development of more efficient heating and cooling devices and advances in energy generation technology, may reduce demand for certain of our products and services. During periods of high energy commodity costs, the prices of certain of our products and services generally increase, which may lead to customer conservation. In addition, federal and/or state regulation may require mandatory conservation measures, which would also reduce demand. A reduction in demand for our products and services could adversely affect our results of operations. Our businesses are dependent on our relationships, on a contractual and regulatory level, with government entities that may have significant leverage over us. Government entities may be influenced by political considerations to take actions adverse to us. Our businesses generally are, and will continue to be, subject to substantial regulation by governmental agencies. In addition, our businesses rely on obtaining and maintaining government permits, licenses, concessions, leases or contracts. Government entities, due to the wide-ranging scope of their authority, have significant leverage over us in their contractual and regulatory relationships with us that they may exercise in a manner that causes us delays in the operation of our businesses or pursuit of our strategy, or increased administrative expense. Furthermore, government permits, licenses, concessions, leases and contracts are generally very complex, which may result in periods of non-compliance, or disputes over interpretation or enforceability. If we fail to comply with these regulations or contractual obligations, we could be subject to monetary penalties or we may lose our rights to operate the affected business, or both. Where our ability to operate an infrastructure business is subject to a concession or lease from the government, the concession or lease may restrict our ability to operate the business in a way that maximizes cash flows and profitability. Further, our ability to grow our current and future businesses will often require consent of numerous government regulators. Increased regulation restricting the ownership or management of U.S. assets, particularly infrastructure assets, by non-U.S. persons, given the non-U.S. ultimate ownership of our Manager, may limit our ability to pursue acquisitions. Any such regulation may also limit our Manager’s ability to continue to manage our operations, which could cause disruption to our businesses and a decline in our performance. In addition, any required government consents may be costly to seek and we may not be able to obtain them. Failure to obtain any required consents could limit our ability to achieve our growth strategy. Our contracts with government entities may also contain clauses more favorable to the government counterparty than a typical commercial contract. For instance, a lease, concession or general service contract may enable the government to terminate the agreement without requiring them to pay adequate compensation. In addition, government counterparties also may have the discretion to change or increase regulation of our operations, or implement laws or regulations affecting our operations, separate from any contractual rights they may have. Governments have considerable discretion in implementing regulations that could impact these businesses. Governments may be influenced by political considerations to take actions that may hinder the efficient and profitable operation of our businesses and investments. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS Many of our contracts, especially those with government entities or quasi-government entities are long-term contracts. These long-term contracts may be difficult to replace if terminated. In addition, buy-out or other early termination provisions could adversely affect our results of operations if exercised before the end of the contract. Governmental agencies may determine the prices we charge and may be able to restrict our ability to operate our businesses to maximize profitability. Where our businesses or investments are sole or predominant service providers in their respective service areas and provide services that are essential to the community, they are likely to be subject to rate regulation by governmental agencies that will determine the prices they may charge. We may also face fees or other charges imposed by government agencies that increase our costs and over which we have no control. We may be subject to increases in fees or unfavorable price determinations that may be final with no right of appeal or that, despite a right of appeal, could result in our profits being negatively affected. In addition, we may have very little negotiating leverage in establishing contracts with government entities, which may decrease the prices that we otherwise might be able to charge or the terms upon which we provide products or services. Businesses and investments we acquire in the future may also be subject to rate regulation or similar negotiating limitations. Our income may be affected adversely if additional compliance costs are required as a result of new safety, health or environmental regulation. Our businesses and investments are subject to federal, state and local safety, health and environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations affect all aspects of their operations and are frequently modified. There is a risk that any one of our businesses or investments may not be able to comply with some aspect of these laws and regulations, resulting in fines or penalties. Additionally, if new laws and regulations are adopted or if interpretations of existing laws and regulations change, we could be required to increase capital spending and incur increased operating expenses in order to comply. Because the regulatory environment frequently changes, we cannot predict when or how we may be affected by such changes. Environmental emissions and other compliance testing technologies continue to improve, which may result in more stringent, targeted environmental regulations and compliance obligations in the future, for example at IMTT, the costs of which could be material and adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. A significant and sustained increase in the price of oil could have a negative impact on the revenue of a number of our businesses. A significant and sustained increase in the price of oil could have a negative impact on the profitability of a number of our businesses. Higher prices for jet fuel could result in less use of aircraft by general aviation customers, which would have a negative impact on the profitability of Atlantic Aviation. Higher fuel prices could increase the cost of power to our businesses generally which they may not be able to fully pass on to customers. We may face a greater exposure to terrorism than other companies because of the nature of our businesses and investments. We believe that infrastructure businesses face a greater risk of terrorist attack than other businesses, particularly those businesses that have operations within the immediate vicinity of metropolitan and suburban areas. Specifically, because of the combustible nature of the products of Hawaii Gas and consumer reliance on these products for basic services, the business’ SNG plant, transmission pipelines, barges and storage facilities may be at greater risk for terrorism attacks than other businesses, which could affect its operations significantly. Any terrorist attacks that occur at or near our business locations would likely cause significant harm to our employees and assets. In recent years, insurers have significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events. A terrorist attack that makes use of our property, or property under our control, may result in liability far in excess of available insurance coverage. In addition, any terrorist attack, regardless of location, could cause a disruption to our business and a decline in earnings. Furthermore, it is likely to result in an increase in insurance premiums and a reduction in coverage, which could cause our profitability to suffer. 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are dependent on certain key personnel, and the loss of key personnel, or the inability to retain or replace qualified employees, could have an adverse effect on our consolidating businesses, financial condition and results of operations. We operate our consolidating businesses on a stand-alone basis, relying on existing management teams for day-to-day operations. Consequently, our operational success, as well as the success of our internal growth strategy, will be dependent on the continued efforts of the management teams of our consolidating businesses, who have extensive experience in the day-to-day operations of these businesses. Furthermore, we will likely be dependent on the operating management teams of businesses that we may acquire in the future. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to retain or replace qualified employees, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to IMTT We share ownership and voting control of IMTT with a third party co-investor. A representative and beneficiary of that co-investor is currently the CEO of IMTT. Our ability to exercise significant influence over the business or level of distributions from IMTT, except pursuant to the Shareholders’ Agreement, is limited, and we have been, and we may again be negatively impacted by disagreements with our co-investor regarding IMTT’s business and operations. We own 50% of IMTT; the remaining 50% is owned by a trust for the benefit of members of IMTT's founding family. Disputes with our co-investor resulted in arbitration in 2012. While MIC prevailed in this arbitration, it was costly and diverted the attention of our management and there was a time delay in receiving the distributions to which we were entitled. To the extent that our co-investor and IMTT executive management again act in ways inconsistent with their obligations under the Shareholders' Agreement between us and our co-investor, further arbitration or litigation may be necessary to enforce our rights. A member of the founding family currently manages the day to day operations of IMTT, and our ability to influence the business is governed by (and may be limited to) our rights under the Shareholders' Agreement governing our investment in IMTT. Because we do not directly manage the day to day operations of IMTT (in contrast to our other assets, including Hawaii Gas and Atlantic Aviation), we may not be provided with notice of material events with respect to IMTT in as timely a manner and with the same level of detail as we would if we were in such a day to day management role. Because we do not manage directly the day to day operations of IMTT, we do not have complete visibility into IMTT's operational and financial systems, controls or processes, including among others, as they relate to environmental, health and safety (EHS) measures. In addition, because IMTT management may not fully apprise us of relevant financial or operational matters, we may not be able to evaluate whether such financial, operational, or EHS systems or controls are sufficiently robust or executed appropriately. The possible failure of IMTT to use adequate financial, operational, and EHS systems or controls could negatively affect the value of the business and its ability to serve as a satisfactory counterparty to customers who demand such systems or controls and could potentially result in penalties from regulatory agencies. Our co-investor may again fail to act in compliance with the Shareholders' Agreement and may have other business interests that are inconsistent with our interests and goals, and may again take actions that are contrary to our business objectives and requests. For example, management, operating under the express or implied direction of the CEO or the co-investor, may oppose our interests in dealings with lenders, contractors, customers, suppliers, regulators and other third party stakeholders, as well our interests in normal business planning and budgeting processes. Similarly, for purposes opposed to or different than ours, management, operating under the express or implied direction of the CEO or the co-investor, may bring forward in time maintenance capital expenditures, expand the scope of maintenance capital expenditure projects, increase maintenance capital expenditures to more than has been properly approved, bring forward supplier payments and tax payments and/or categorize growth capital expenditures as maintenance capital expenditures in a manner with which we disagree to reduce distributions and/or Free Cash Flow in any reporting period. We may not agree with our co-investor or IMTT's management as to the payment, amount or timing of distributions or as to transactions such as capital expenditures, acquisitions or dispositions of assets and 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS financings. In addition, we may not receive from management all of the financial and operating data that we request on a timely basis or at all which may significantly delay our ability to report updated IMTT information. If we determine that litigation and/or arbitration is the optimal path to secure our interest and preserve our rights, we will commence such litigation or arbitration as we have in the past. IMTT’s business is dependent on the demand for bulk liquid terminals capacity in the locations where it operates. Demand for IMTT’s bulk liquid terminals is largely a function of U.S. domestic demand for chemical, petroleum and vegetable and animal oil products and, less significantly, the extent to which such products are imported into and/or exported out of the United States. U.S. domestic demand for chemical, petroleum and vegetable and animal oil products is influenced by a number of factors, including economic conditions, growth in the U.S. economy, the pricing of chemical, petroleum and vegetable and animal oil products and their substitutes. Import and export volumes of these products to and from the United States are influenced by demand and supply imbalances in the United States and overseas, the cost of producing chemical, petroleum and vegetable and animal oil products domestically versus overseas and the cost of transporting the products between the United States and overseas destinations. Specifically, increased production of natural gas or crude from mainland North America may increase or decrease the demand for bulk liquid terminals. This situation continues to develop and the effects are not yet predictable. In addition, changes in government regulations that affect imports and exports of bulk chemical, petroleum, renewable fuels and vegetable and animal oil products, including the imposition of surcharges or taxes on imported or exported products, could adversely affect import and export volumes to and from the United States. A reduction in demand for bulk liquid terminals, particularly in the New York Harbor or the Lower Mississippi River, as a consequence of lower U.S. domestic demand for, or imports/exports of, chemical, petroleum or vegetable and animal oil products, could lead to a decline in storage rates and tankage volumes rented out by IMTT and adversely affect IMTT’s revenue and profitability and the distributions it makes to us. IMTT’s business could be adversely affected by a substantial increase in bulk liquid terminals capacity in the locations where it operates or in other alternative or substitute locations. An increase in available bulk liquid terminal capacity in excess of growth in demand for such storage in the key locations in which IMTT operates, such as New York Harbor and the Lower Mississippi River, or in Houston or other parts of the Gulf Coast could result in overcapacity and a decline in storage rates and tankage volumes rented out by IMTT and could adversely affect IMTT’s revenue and profitability and the distributions it makes to us. Some of IMTT’s current agreements may be terminated at the end of the current renewal term upon requisite notice or renewed on different terms. If one or more of the current agreements is terminated and IMTT is unable to secure comparable alternative arrangements, its financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Upon expiration the agreement can be terminated by either party upon the giving of the requisite notice. If any of IMTT’s agreements is terminated and IMTT is unable to secure comparable alternative arrangements, IMTT may not be able to generate sufficient additional revenue from third parties to replace any shortfall. Additionally, IMTT may incur substantial costs if modifications to its terminals are required by a new or renegotiated agreement. If IMTT does not deploy capital for growth or make such deployment on economically acceptable terms, any future growth of the business may be limited. A portion of IMTT’s historical growth has been dependent on the deployment of capital for growth. While MIC believes that there remains considerable opportunity for IMTT to deploy growth capital at levels similar to those experienced between 2006 and 2012, if IMTT cannot find projects with economically acceptable terms, or if IMTT management chooses not to pursue such projects, or co-investor does not support future growth of this business will be limited. 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS We believe that the experience of IMTT’s senior executives in managing large scale businesses is limited. Furthermore, the members of the executive management team have generally remained unchanged (in terms of number and personnel) throughout this period of growth. We believe that the executive management of IMTT has limited experience running and operating a business of the size to which IMTT has grown. To the extent that IMTT’s executive management is not enhanced or developed, MIC believes that the business may underperform. IMTT’s business could be adversely affected by the insolvency of one or more large customers. IMTT has a number of customers that together generate a material proportion of IMTT’s revenue and gross profit. In 2013, IMTT’s ten largest customers by revenue generated approximately 51.3% of terminal revenue. The insolvency of any of these large customers could result in an increase in unutilized storage capacity in the absence of such capacity being rented to other customers and adversely affect IMTT’s revenue and profitability and the distributions it makes to us. IMTT’s business involves hazardous activities and is partly located in a region with a history of significant adverse weather events and is potentially a target for terrorist attacks. We cannot assure that IMTT is, or will be in the future, adequately insured against all such risks. The transportation, handling and storage of petroleum, chemical and vegetable and animal oil products are subject to the risk of spills, leakage, contamination, fires and explosions. Any of these events may result in loss of revenue, loss of reputation or goodwill, fines, penalties and other liabilities. In certain circumstances, such events could also require IMTT to halt or significantly alter operations at all or part of the facility at which the event occurred. IMTT carries insurance to protect against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of the business; however, the limits of IMTT's coverage mean IMTT cannot insure against all risks. In addition, because IMTT's facilities are not insured against loss from terrorism or acts of war, such an attack that significantly damages one or more of IMTT's major facilities would have a negative impact on IMTT's future cash flow and profitability and the distributions it makes to us. Further, future losses sustained by insurers during hurricanes in the U.S. Gulf and Northeast regions may result in lower insurance coverage and/or increased insurance premiums for IMTT's properties. Risks Related to Hawaii Gas Disruptions or shutdowns at either of the oil refineries on Oahu from which Hawaii Gas obtains both LPG and the primary feedstock for its SNG plant may have an adverse effect on the operations of the business. Hawaii Gas processes SNG and distributes SNG and LPG. SNG feedstock or LPG supply disruptions could increase Hawaii Gas’ costs as a result of an inability to source feedstock at rates comparable to those being paid currently. The extended unavailability of one or both of the refineries or disruption to crude oil supplies or feedstock to Hawaii could also result in an increased reliance on off-island sources. An inability to purchase LPG from off-island sources would adversely affect operations. The business is also limited in its ability to store LPG, and any disruption in supply may cause a depletion of LPG stocks. On September 26, 2013, HIE completed its purchase of Tesoro Hawaii, currently the business’ only contracted source of feedstock for SNG. The SNG contract automatically renews for an additional 90 day terms unless either party provides 60 days notice of its intent to terminate the contract. Changes in HIE’s future operations could significantly and adversely impact Hawaii Gas’s utility business. Although a contingency plan to replace SNG feedstock is in place, an inability to execute this plan in a timely or cost effective manner could cause a significant disruption and potentially result in operating cost increases and/or capital expenditures. The business is also limited in its ability to store SNG feedstock in the event of a disruption. All supply disruptions of SNG or LPG, if occurring for an extended period, could adversely impact the business’ contribution margin and cash flows. The most significant costs for Hawaii Gas are locally-sourced LPG, LPG imports and feedstock for the SNG plant, the costs of which are directly related to petroleum prices. To the extent that these costs cannot be passed on to customers, the business’ contribution margin and cash flows will be adversely affected. The profitability of Hawaii Gas is based on the margin of sales prices over costs. Since LPG and feedstock for the SNG plant are commodities, changes in global supply of and demand for these products can 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS have a significant impact on costs. In addition, increased reliance on higher-priced off-island sources of LPG, whether as a result of disruptions to or shortages in local sources or otherwise, could also have a significant impact on costs. Hawaii Gas has no control over these costs, and, to the extent that these costs cannot be passed on to customers, the business’ financial condition and the results of operations would be adversely affected. Higher prices could result in reduced customer demand or customer conversion to alternative energy sources, or both, that would reduce the volume of gas sold and adversely affect the profitability of Hawaii Gas. Hawaii Gas relies on its SNG plant, including its transmission pipeline, for a significant portion of its sales. Disruptions at that facility could adversely affect the business’ ability to serve customers. Disruptions at the SNG plant resulting from mechanical or operational problems or power failures could affect the ability of Hawaii Gas to produce SNG. Most of the utility sales on Oahu are of SNG and all SNG is produced at the Oahu plant. Disruptions to the primary and redundant production systems would have a significant adverse effect on Hawaii Gas’s revenues and cash flows. Hawaii Gas’s operations on the islands of Hawaii, Maui and Kauai rely on LPG that is transported to those islands by Jones Act qualified barges from Oahu and from non-Jones Act vessels from off-island ports. Disruptions to service by those vessels could adversely affect the financial performance of the business. The Jones Act requires that all goods transported by water between U.S. ports be carried in U.S.-flag ships and that they meet certain other requirements. The business has time charter agreements allowing the use of two barges that currently have a cargo capacity of approximately 420,000 gallons and 500,000 gallons of LPG, respectively. The barges used by the business are the only two Jones Act qualified barges available in the Hawaiian Islands capable of carrying large volumes of LPG. If the barges are unable to transport LPG from Oahu and the business is not able to secure off-island sources of LPG or obtain an exemption to the Jones Act that would permit importation of a sufficient quantity of LPG from the mainland U.S., the profitability of the business could be adversely impacted. If the barges require refurbishment or repair at a greater frequency than forecast, cash outflows for capital costs could adversely impact Hawaii Gas’s results and cash flows. The operations of Hawaii Gas are subject to a variety of competitive pressures and the actions of competitors, particularly those involved in other energy sources, could have a materially adverse effect on operating results. Other fuel sources such as electricity, diesel, solar energy, geo-thermal, wind, other gas providers and alternative energy sources may be substituted for certain gas end-use applications, particularly if the price of gas increases relative to other fuel sources, whether due to higher costs or otherwise. Customers could, for a number of reasons, including increased gas prices, lower costs of alternative energy or convenience, meet their energy needs through alternative sources. This could have an adverse effect on the business’ revenues and cash flows. Hawaii Gas’s utility business is subject to regulation by the Hawaii Public Utilities Commission, or HPUC, and actions by the HPUC or changes to the regulatory environment may constrain the operation or profitability of the business. The HPUC regulates all franchised or certificated public service companies operating in Hawaii; prescribes rates, tariffs, charges and fees; determines the allowable rate of earnings in establishing rates; issues guidelines concerning the general management of franchised or certificated utility businesses; and acts on requests for the acquisition, sale, disposition or other exchange of utility properties, including mergers and consolidations. Any adverse decision by the HPUC concerning the level or method of determining utility rates, the items and amounts that may be included in the rate base, the returns on equity or rate base found to be reasonable, the potential consequences of exceeding or not meeting such returns, or any prolonged delay in rendering a decision in a rate or other proceeding, could have an adverse effect on the business. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS As part of MIC’s acquisition, the business agreed to 14 regulatory conditions with the HPUC that address a variety of matters including: a requirement that Hawaii Gas and HGC’s ratio of consolidated debt to total capital does not exceed 65%; and a requirement to maintain $20.0 million in readily-available cash resources at Hawaii Gas, HGC or MIC. The business is currently in compliance with these conditions, however future non-compliance with these or other HPUC regulatory conditions, could adversely impact the profitability of Hawaii Gas. The RNG and LNG initiatives expose Hawaii Gas to new supply, counterparty, facility, technology and regulatory risks. Hawaii Gas continues to evaluate a range of RNG sources for conversion into pipeline quality gas in scale quantities. These initiatives include a multi-year project utilizing animal fat and non-food grade oils as well as ongoing commercial negotiations to source bio gas from waste water treatment plants and landfills. The technology used to produce RNG from non-petroleum based feedstock is not widely used at scale and typically requires significantly greater conversion, transport and storage costs. Beginning March 31, 2012, Hawaii Gas must report annually to the HPUC the percentage of feedstock and quantity of gas produced from non-petroleum feedstock. In the event Hawaii Gas fails to produce a reasonable proportion of gas from renewable and sustainable sources, regulators could impose renewable portfolio standards on the business, resulting in significantly increased energy costs to the business and its customers. Hawaii Gas has invested over $4.0 million to evaluate and plan for LNG transport from the mainland and utilization by the business, as well as to commence training and development of systems required for regulatory approval. This project is subject to ongoing implementation risk including but not limited to: the timely issuance of necessary permits, licenses and approvals by governmental agencies and third parties; unanticipated changes in market demand or supply; competition with similar projects; site difficulties; environmental conditions; delays of critical equipment and materials; and commercial arrangements to transport and distribute LNG. If the project is delayed beyond the estimated implementation period, the actual cost of planning and implementation may increase beyond the amounts currently estimated in our capital and operating budgets. A delay in implementation would also cause a delay in the receipt of projected revenues which may cause our financial results to be negatively impacted. Hawaii Gas is subject to risks associated with volatility in the Hawaii economy. Tourism and government activities (including the military) are two of the largest components of Hawaii’s economy. Hawaii’s economy is heavily influenced by economic conditions in the U.S. and Asia and their impact on tourism, as well as by government spending. A large portion of Hawaii Gas’s sales are generated by businesses that rely on tourism. If the local economy deteriorates, the volume of gas sold could be negatively affected by business closures and/or lower usage and adversely impact the business’ financial performance. Additionally, a lack of growth in the Hawaiian economy could reduce the level of new residential construction, and adversely impact growth in volume from new residential customers. A reduction in government activity, particularly military activity, or a shift by either away from the use of gas products, could also have a negative impact on Hawaii Gas’s results. Reductions in U.S. military spending could result in a reduction in demand for gas in Hawaii. The U.S. military has a significant presence in Hawaii. To the extent that federal spending cuts, including voluntary cuts in U.S. military spending or mandatory cuts pursuant to sequestration, result in a reduced military presence in Hawaii, such reductions could reduce the demand for gas products in Hawaii. Because of its geographic location, Hawaii, and in turn Hawaii Gas, is subject to earthquakes and certain weather risks that could materially disrupt operations. Hawaii is subject to earthquakes and certain weather risks, such as hurricanes, floods, heavy and sustained rains and tidal waves. Because the business’ SNG plant, SNG transmission line and several storage facilities are close to the ocean, weather-related disruptions to operations are possible. In addition, earthquakes may cause disruptions. These events could damage the business’ assets or could result in wide-spread damage to its customers, thereby reducing the volumes of gas sold and, to the extent such damages are not covered by insurance, the business’ revenues and cash flows. 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS Because of its geographic location and the unique economy of Hawaii, Hawaii Gas is subject to challenges in hiring and maintaining staff with specialized skill sets. The changing nature of the Hawaiian energy complex, combined with the impact of the global economic recession has had an impact on the Company’s staffing requirements. Volatility in feedstock prices, together with the impact of the State of Hawaii’s goals to reduce dependency on imported petroleum, requires staff with specialized knowledge of the energy sector. Because the resident labor pool in Hawaii is both small, and oriented mainly to Hawaii’s basic industries, it is difficult to find individuals with the ideal skill sets. Moreover, relocation to Hawaii is costly and often requires employees to make cultural and family adjustments not normally required for a change of employment. The inability to source and retain staff with appropriate skill sets could adversely impact the performance of the business. Risks Related to Atlantic Aviation Deterioration in the economy in general or in the aviation industry that results in less air traffic at airports that Atlantic Aviation services would have a material adverse impact on our business. A large part of the business’ revenue is derived from fuel sales and other services provided to general aviation customers and, to a lesser extent, commercial air travelers. An economic downturn could reduce the level of air travel, adversely affecting Atlantic Aviation. General aviation travel is primarily a function of economic activity. Consequently, during periods of economic downturn, FBO customers are more likely to curtail air travel. Air travel and air traffic volume can also be affected by events that have nationwide and industry-wide implications. Events such as wars, outbreaks of disease, severe weather and terrorist activities in the United States or overseas may reduce air travel. Local circumstances include downturns in the general economic conditions of the area where an airport is located or other situations in which the business’ major FBO customers relocate their home base or preferred fueling stop to alternative locations. In addition, changes to regulations governing the tax treatment relating to general aviation travel, either for businesses or individuals, may cause a reduction in general aviation travel. Increased environmental regulation restricting or increasing the cost of aviation activities could also cause the business’ revenue to decline. Atlantic Aviation is subject to a variety of competitive pressures, and the actions of competitors may have a material adverse effect on its revenue. FBO operators at a particular airport compete based on a number of factors, including location of the facility relative to runways and street access, service, value added features, reliability and price. Many of Atlantic Aviation’s FBOs compete with one or more FBOs at their respective airports and with FBOs at nearby airports. Furthermore, leases related to FBO operations may be subject to competitive bidding at the end of their term. Some present and potential competitors may have or may obtain greater financial and marketing resources than Atlantic Aviation, which may negatively impact Atlantic Aviation’s ability to compete at each airport or for lease renewal. Some competitors may aggressively or irrationally price their bids for airport concessions, which may limit the business’ ability to grow or renew its portfolio. Atlantic Aviation’s FBOs do not have the right to be the sole provider of FBO services at any airport. The authority responsible for each airport has the ability to grant other leases to other operators and new competitors could be established at those airports. The addition of new competitors may reduce or impair Atlantic Aviation’s ability to grow or improve its financial performance. Failure to complete, or realize anticipated performance from, the Galaxy or Boca Acquisitions could negatively impact Atlantic Aviation; the business’ increased indebtedness after the acquisitions could reduce our operating flexibility. Completing the Galaxy and Boca Acquisitions are subject to a number of conditions, and we may not complete them on a timely basis or at all, which could have an adverse effect on the business and results of operations of our Atlantic Aviation business. 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS FBO industry participants are often smaller, private companies with less sophisticated information systems and financial reporting and control capabilities. Galaxy Aviation and Boca Aviation are privately owned and have financial reporting and control systems that are less sophisticated than ours. If we complete the Galaxy Acquisition or the Boca Acquisition, we may be unable to integrate the assets into our existing operations on a timely basis or to achieve expected efficiencies. The integration could be expensive and could be time consuming for our management. We may not be able to achieve anticipated levels of financial performance at the acquired assets within our expected time frames or at all. In addition, Atlantic Aviation has incurred indebtedness to fund a portion of the acquisitions. This increased level of indebtedness will increase interest expense and could reduce funds available for reinvestment or distribution to MIC. The termination for cause or convenience of one or more of the FBO leases would damage Atlantic Aviation’s operations significantly. Atlantic Aviation’s revenue is derived from long-term leases at 63 airports in the U.S. If Atlantic Aviation defaults on the terms and conditions of its leases, including upon insolvency, the relevant authority may terminate the lease without compensation. In this case, Atlantic Aviation would then lose the income from that location and potentially the expected returns from prior capital expenditures. Atlantic Aviation would also likely be in default under the loan agreements and be obliged to repay its lenders a portion or the entire outstanding loan amount. Any such events would have a material adverse effect on Atlantic Aviation’s results of operations. Increased pricing competition at Atlantic Aviation may have an adverse effect on market share and fuel margins, causing a decline in the profitability of that business. Atlantic Aviation’s competitors may pursue more aggressive pricing strategies. These competitors may operate FBOs at a number of airports where Atlantic Aviation operates or at airports near where it operates. Excessive price discounting may cause fuel volume and market share decline, potential decline in hangar rentals and de-icing and may result in increased margin pressure, adversely affecting the profitability of this business. Reductions in U.S. military spending could result in a reduction in demand for services provided by Atlantic Aviation at certain airports in the U.S. The U.S. military operates non-combat aircraft that are serviced at Atlantic Aviation FBOs around the U.S. and combat and non-combat aircraft at certain airports where fuel and fuel-related services are provided by Atlantic Aviation. Cuts in U.S. military spending, to the extent they result in a reduction in the number of flights by military aircraft, could reduce fuel and non-fuel revenue at Atlantic Aviation. Deterioration of business jet traffic at airports where Atlantic Aviation operates would decrease Atlantic Aviation’s ability to refinance its debt. As of December 31, 2013, Atlantic Aviation had total long-term debt outstanding of $517.8 million, consisting of $512.6 million in term loan debt and $5.2 million in stand-alone debt facilities. The terms of these debt arrangements require compliance with certain operating and financial covenants. The ability of Atlantic Aviation to meet their respective debt service obligations and to refinance or repay their outstanding indebtedness will depend primarily upon cash produced by this business. The Transportation Security Administration, or TSA, is considering new regulations which could impair the relative convenience of general aviation and adversely affect demand for Atlantic Aviation’s services. The TSA has proposed new regulations known as the Large Aircraft Security Program (LASP), which would require all U.S. operators of general aviation aircraft exceeding 12,500 pounds maximum take-off weight to implement security programs that are subject to TSA audit. In addition, the proposed regulations would require airports servicing these aircraft to implement security programs involving additional security measures, including passenger and baggage screening. The business believes these new regulations, if implemented, will affect many of Atlantic Aviation’s customers and all of the airports at which it operates. 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS These rules, if adopted, could decrease the convenience and attractiveness of general aviation travel relative to commercial air travel and, therefore, may adversely impact demand for Atlantic Aviation’s services. These proposed regulations are moving very slowly and implementation is not expected in the near future. The lack of accurate and reliable industry data can result in unfavorable strategic planning, mergers and acquisitions and macro pricing decisions. The business uses industry and airport-specific general aviation traffic data published by the FAA to identify trends in the FBO industry. The business also uses this traffic data as a key input to decision-making in strategic planning, mergers and acquisitions and macro pricing matters. However, as noted by the FAA on their website, the data has several limitations and challenges. As a result, the use of the FAA traffic data may result in conclusions in strategic planning, mergers and acquisitions or macro pricing decisions that are ultimately unfavorable. Risks Related to Contracted Power and Energy CP depends on counterparties performing in accordance with their agreements. If they fail to so perform, our CP businesses could incur substantial expenses and business disruptions which could materially adversely affect financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. CP is exposed to the risk that counterparties under long-term agreements will not perform their obligations in accordance with such agreements. Should they fail to so perform, CP may be required to acquire alternative purchasers of the power produced by CP facilities. The failure of any of the parties to perform in accordance with these agreements could adversely affect CP’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. CP is the managing member of the operating LLCs that own the solar generation facilities in Arizona, Texas and California. CP’s failure to uphold its obligations as managing member could materially adversely affect CP’s financial condition, cash flows and result of operations. CP has entered into an operating LLC agreement as managing member with a co-investor for the solar generation facilities in Arizona, Texas and California. As managing member, CP is obligated to perform certain actions, including providing certain reporting items to its co-investor and the filing of correct and timely tax returns. As managing member, CP is also obligated to refrain from performing certain actions, including selling its interest to certain entities that would result in adverse economic outcomes to CP and its co-investor due to tax regulations. If CP were to cause an adverse tax outcome for its co-investor, CP would be liable. CP’s failure to perform its obligations or to take any actions contrary to its obligations under any or all operating LLC agreements could adversely affect CP’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The generation of electricity from solar PV is dependent on meteorological conditions. If conditions are unfavorable, CP’s generation facilities may underperform which could materially adversely affect CP’s financial condition, cash flows and result of operations. CP’s power generation facilities are dependent on the available solar resource. Historical solar availability is used to project expected power generation. Actual conditions are beyond our control and may vary from our projections. If actual conditions cause material underperformance, CP’s result of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. This may cause default under some or all of CP’s debt facilities and/or limit CP’s ability to pay distributions to MIC. CP depends on electric interconnection and transmission facilities that we do not own or control and that are potentially subject to transmission constraints. If these facilities fail to provide adequate transmission capacity, CP may be restricted in its ability to deliver electricity to customers. CP depends on electric interconnection and transmission facilities owned and operated by others to deliver the power it generates, under specific contracts agreed with CP. Within these contracts there are provisions that allow for occasional curtailment of electricity generated by CP due to the limitations of the transmission system or electricity grid. Any constraints that prevent CP from delivering power could adversely affect CP’s results of 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS operations, cash flows and financial condition. Additionally, any failure in the operation of these interconnections or transmission facilities could prevent CP from selling power and in certain cases, for example force majeure, could adversely affect CP’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Pursuant to the terms of a use agreement with the City of Chicago, the City of Chicago has rights that, if exercised, could have a significant negative impact on DE. In order to operate the district cooling system in downtown Chicago, the business has obtained the right to use certain public ways of the City of Chicago under a use agreement, which we refer to as the Use Agreement. Under the terms of the Use Agreement, the City of Chicago retains the right to use the public ways for a public purpose and has the right in the interest of public safety or convenience to cause the business to remove, modify, replace or relocate its facilities at the expense of the business. If the City of Chicago exercises these rights, DE could incur significant costs and its ability to provide service to its customers could be disrupted, which would have an adverse effect on the business’ financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Use Agreement is non-exclusive, and the City of Chicago is entitled to enter into use agreements with the business’ potential competitors. The Use Agreement expires on December 31, 2040 and may be terminated by the City of Chicago for any uncured material breach of its terms and conditions. The City of Chicago may also require DE to pay liquidated damages of $6,000 a day if the business fails to remove, modify, replace or relocate its facilities when required to do so, if it installs any facilities that are not properly authorized under the Use Agreement or if the district cooling system does not conform to the City of Chicago’s standards. Each of these non-compliance penalties could result in substantial financial loss or effectively shut down the district cooling system in downtown Chicago. Any proposed renewal, extension or modification of the Use Agreement requires approval by the City Council of Chicago. Extensions and modifications subject to the City of Chicago’s approval include those to enable the expansion of chilling capacity and the connection of new customers to the district cooling system. The City of Chicago’s approval is contingent upon the timely filing of an Economic Disclosure Statement, or EDS (disclosure required by Illinois state law and Chicago city ordinances to certify compliance with various laws and ordinances), by us and certain of the beneficial owners of our stock. If any of these investors fails to file a completed EDS form within 30 days of the City of Chicago’s request or files an incomplete or inaccurate EDS, the City of Chicago has the right to refuse to provide the necessary approval for any extension or modification of the Use Agreement or to rescind the Use Agreement altogether. If the City of Chicago declines to approve extensions or modifications to the Use Agreement, DE may not be able to increase the capacity of its district cooling system and pursue its growth strategy. Furthermore, if the City of Chicago rescinds or voids the Use Agreement, the district cooling system in downtown Chicago would be effectively shut down and the business’ financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected as a result. A certain number of our investors may be required to comply with certain disclosure requirements of the City of Chicago and non-compliance may result in the City of Chicago’s rescission or voidance of the Use Agreement and any other arrangements DE may have with the City of Chicago at the time of the non-compliance. In order to secure any amendment to the Use Agreement with the City of Chicago to pursue expansion plans or otherwise, or to enter into other contracts with the City of Chicago, the City of Chicago may require any person who owns or acquires 15% or more of our LLC interests to make a number of representations to the City of Chicago by filing a completed EDS. Our LLC agreement requires that in the event that we need to obtain approval from the City of Chicago in the future for any specific matter, including to expand the district cooling system or to amend the Use Agreement, we and each of our then 15% investors would need to submit an EDS to the City of Chicago within 30 days of the City of Chicago’s request. In addition, our LLC agreement requires each 15% investor to provide any supplemental information needed to update any EDS filed with the City of Chicago as required by the City of Chicago and as requested by us from time to time. Any EDS filed by an investor may become publicly available. By completing and signing an EDS, an investor will have waived and released any possible rights or claims which it may have against the City of 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS Chicago in connection with the public release of information contained in the EDS and also will have authorized the City of Chicago to verify the accuracy of information submitted in the EDS. The requirements and consequences of filing an EDS with the City of Chicago will make compliance with the EDS requirements difficult for our investors. If any investor fails to comply with the EDS requirements on time or the City of Chicago determines that any information provided in any EDS is false, incomplete or inaccurate, the City of Chicago may rescind or void the Use Agreement or any other arrangements Thermal Chicago has with the City of Chicago, and pursue any other remedies available to them. If the City of Chicago rescinds or voids the Use Agreement, the business’ district cooling system in downtown Chicago would be effectively shut down and the business’ financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected as a result. The deteriorating financial condition of the City of Chicago may provide it with the incentive to take positions on contracts with DE that could have an adverse effect on the cash flows generated of the business. DE has several long-term contracts with the City of Chicago, some of which contain early buy-out provisions, pursuant to which the City may terminate the contracts early. The City may take an aggressive position on the buy-outs in an effort to save costs, which may lead to disputes with the City. In the event we are unable to resolve such disputes, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, whilst we litigate or take other steps to protect our rights. We may be required to incur significant litigation costs, and the attention of DE’s management may be diverted for extended periods. If certain events within or beyond the control of DE occur, DE may be unable to perform its contractual obligations to provide chilling and heating services to its customers. If, as a result, its customers elect to terminate their contracts, DE may suffer loss of revenue. In addition, DE may be required to make payments to such customers for damages. In the event of a shutdown of one or more of DE’s plants due to operational breakdown, strikes, the inability to retain or replace key technical personnel or events outside its control, such as an electricity blackout, or unprecedented weather conditions in Chicago, DE may be unable to continue to provide chilling and heating services to all of its customers. As a result, DE may be in breach of the terms of some or all of its customer contracts. In the event that such customers elect to terminate their contracts with DE as a consequence of their loss of service, its revenue may be materially adversely affected. In addition, under a number of contracts, DE may be required to pay damages to a customer in the event that a cessation of service results in loss to that customer. Northwind Aladdin currently derives a majority of its operating cash flows from a contract with a single customer, the Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino, which emerged from bankruptcy several years ago. If this customer were to enter into bankruptcy again, Northwind Aladdin’s contract may be amended or terminated and the business may receive no compensation, which could result in the loss of our investment in Northwind Aladdin. Northwind Aladdin derives a majority of its cash flows from a contract with the Planet Hollywood resort and casino (formerly known as the Aladdin resort and casino) in Las Vegas to supply cold and hot water and back-up electricity. The Aladdin resort and casino emerged from bankruptcy immediately prior to DE’s acquisition of Northwind Aladdin in September of 2004, and during the course of those proceedings, the contract with Northwind Aladdin was amended to reduce the payment obligations of the Aladdin resort and casino. If the Planet Hollywood resort and casino were to enter into bankruptcy again and a cheaper source of the services that Northwind Aladdin provides can be found, the current contract may be terminated or amended. This could result in a total loss or significant reduction in DE’s income from Northwind Aladdin, for which the business may receive no compensation. Weather conditions and conservation efforts may negatively impact DE’s results of operations. DE’s earnings are generated by the sale of cooling and heating services. Weather conditions that are significantly cooler than normal in DE’s service areas may negatively affect demand for the services it provides. Demand for its services may also be reduced by the conservation efforts of its customers and by any 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS conservation mandated by regulations to curb the effects of climate change and global warming. A reduction in demand for DE’s services could adversely affect DE’s results of operations. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Stock Our reported Earnings per Share (“EPS”), as defined under GAAP, do not reflect the cash generated by our businesses and investments and may result in unfavorable comparisons with other businesses for which EPS is a useful component in valuation. Our businesses and investments own and invest in high-value, long-lived assets that generate large amounts of depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are non-cash expenses that serve to reduce reported EPS. As a result, our financial performance may appear to be substantially worse compared with businesses whose earnings do not reflect the effects of depreciation and amortization (or other non-cash items). To the extent that our results appear to be worse, we may have relatively greater difficulty attracting investors in our stock. Our inability, under GAAP, to consolidate the financial results of our largest business makes it relatively more difficult to analyze the cash generation of our combined businesses. Our investment in IMTT is not consolidated for financial reporting purposes; rather it is accounted for using the equity method. The equity method requires us to include an amount of IMTT’s GAAP net income equal to our equity interest in the business (50%) in our consolidated statement of operations. To the extent that IMTT owns and invests in high-value, long-lived physical assets that are depreciated over relatively short periods of time, its net income can be negligible or negative in any given period. As a consequence, the performance of IMTT may have relatively little impact on our consolidated statement of operations. Our total assets include a substantial amount of goodwill and intangible assets. The write-off of a significant portion of intangible assets would negatively affect our reported earnings. Our total assets reflect a substantial amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. At December 31, 2013, goodwill and other intangible assets, net, represented approximately 44.3% of total assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets were primarily recognized as a result of the acquisitions of our businesses and investments. Other intangible assets consist primarily of airport operating rights, customer relationships and trade names. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there has been any impairment in the value of goodwill and assess for impairment of other intangible assets when there are triggering events or circumstances. If the carrying value of the tested asset exceeds its estimated fair value, impairment is deemed to have occurred. In this event, the amount is written down to fair value. Under current accounting rules, this would result in a charge to reported earnings. We have recognized significant impairments in the past, and any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill or other intangible assets would negatively affect our reported earnings and total capitalization, and could be material. Our total assets include a substantial amount of goodwill, intangible assets and fixed assets. The depreciation and amortization of these assets may negatively impact our reported earnings. The high level of intangible and physical assets written up to fair value upon acquisition of our businesses generates substantial amounts of depreciation and amortization. These non-cash items serve to lower net income as reported in our consolidated statement of operations as well as our taxable income. The generation of net losses or relatively small net income may contribute to a net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforward that can be used to offset current taxable income in future periods. However, the continued reporting of little or negative net income may adversely affect the attractiveness of the Company among some potential investors and may reduce the market for our LLC interests. MIC’s complex structure and financial reporting may make it difficult for some investors to value our LLC interests. We are a limited liability company structured as a non-operating holding company of several operating businesses and one substantial, unconsolidated investment. We have elected to be treated as a corporation for tax purposes. Our consolidated federal income tax group is comprised of two of our operating businesses and 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS our allocated share of the taxable income from CP, which is treated as a partnership for tax purposes. Our investment and one of our operating businesses file stand-alone federal income tax returns. To the extent we receive distributions either from our investment or operating business that is not a part of our tax group, and these distributions are characterized as a dividend for tax purposes (as opposed to a return of capital), such distributions would be eligible for the federal dividends received deductions (80% exclusion in calculating taxes). These and other factors may make it difficult for some potential investors, particularly those without a moderate level of financial acumen, to accurately assess the value of our LLC interests and may adversely impact the market for our LLC interests. Certain provisions of the management services agreement and the operating agreement of the Company makes it difficult for third parties to acquire control of the Company and could deprive investors of the opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for their LLC interests. In addition to the limited circumstances in which our Manager can be terminated under the terms of the management services agreement, the management services agreement provides that in circumstances where the stock ceases to be listed on a recognized U.S. exchange as a result of the acquisition of stock by third parties in an amount that results in the stock ceasing to meet the distribution and trading criteria on such exchange or market, the Manager has the option to either propose an alternate fee structure and remain our Manager or resign, terminate the management services agreement upon 30 days’ written notice and be paid a substantial termination fee. The termination fee payable on the Manager’s exercise of its right to resign as our Manager subsequent to a delisting of our LLC interests could delay or prevent a change in control that may favor our shareholders. Furthermore, in the event of such a delisting, any proceeds from the sale, lease or exchange of a significant amount of assets must be reinvested in new assets of our Company, subject to debt repayment obligations. We would also be prohibited from incurring any new indebtedness or engaging in any transactions with shareholders of the Company or its affiliates without the prior written approval of the Manager. These provisions could deprive shareholders of opportunities to realize a premium on the LLC interests owned by them. The operating agreement of the Company, which we refer to as the LLC agreement, contains a number of provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third-party to acquire, or discouraging a third-party from acquiring, control of the Company. These provisions include: • restrictions on the Company’s ability to enter into certain transactions with our major shareholders, with the exception of our Manager, modeled on the limitation contained in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law; • allowing only the Company’s Board of Directors to fill vacancies, including newly created directorships and requiring that directors may be removed only for cause and by a shareholder vote of 66 2/3%; • requiring that only the Company’s chairman or Board of Directors may call a special meeting of our shareholders; • prohibiting shareholders from taking any action by written consent; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to the Company’s Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by our shareholders at a shareholders’ meeting; • having a substantial number of additional LLC interests authorized but unissued; • providing the Company’s Board of Directors with broad authority to amend the LLC agreement; and • requiring that any person who is the beneficial owner of 15% or more of our LLC interests make a number of representations to the City of Chicago in its standard form of EDS, the current form of which is included in our LLC agreement, which is incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this report. 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our Manager owns a significant portion of MIC’s shares outstanding. A sale of all or a portion of the interests owned by our Manager could be interpreted by the equity markets as a lack of confidence in the prospects of the Company. Our Manager, in its sole discretion, determines whether to reinvest base and performance fees in shares and whether to hold or sell those securities. Reinvestment of base and performance fees in additional shares would increase our Manager’s ownership stake in the Company. As of February 14, 2014, our Manager owned 5.63% of our outstanding LLC interests. If our Manager decides, for reasons other than the performance and prospects of the Company, to reduce its position in the Company, such sales may be interpreted by some market participants as a lack of confidence in the Company and put downward pressure on the market price of our shares. Our Manager’s decision to reinvest its monthly base management fees and quarterly performance fees, as applicable, in LLC interests or retain the cash will affect holders of LLC interests differently. Our Manager earned $32.0 million and $53.4 million in base management and performance fees, respectively, during 2013. These fees are based on the Company’s market capitalization and performance and may be higher or lower than these levels in the future. Our Manager, in its sole discretion, may elect to retain base management fees and performance fees, if applicable, paid in cash or to reinvest such payments in additional LLC interests. In the event the Manager chooses not to reinvest the fees to which it is entitled in additional LLC interests, the amount paid will reduce the cash that may otherwise be distributed as a dividend to all shareholders or used in the Company’s operations. In the event the Manager chooses to reinvest the fees to which it is entitled in additional LLC interests, effectively returning the cash to us, such reinvestment will dilute existing shareholders by the increase in the percentage of shares owned by the Manager. Either option may adversely impact the market for our LLC interests. In addition, the Manager has elected to invest its fees in LLC interests, and can only change this election during an 18-trading day window following the Company’s earnings release. Any change would apply to fees paid thereafter. Accordingly, shareholders would have notice of the Manager’s intent to receive fees in cash rather than reinvest before the change was effective. Our reported EBITDA excluding non-cash items and Free Cash Flow will be lower if the Manager elects to retain base management and/or performance fees in cash as compared with its election to reinvest such base management and/or performance fees in additional LLC interests. The amount by which these items are lower could be material. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 for further information on how we calculate these items and what management uses these items for. Our Manager can resign with 90 days notice, or our CEO or CFO could be removed, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations, which could adversely affect our financial results and negatively impact the market price of our LLC interests. Our Manager has the right, under the management services agreement, to resign at any time with 90 days notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. The resignation of our Manager will trigger mandatory repayment obligations under debt facilities at certain of our operating companies. In addition, the Manager could re-assign or remove the CEO and/or the CFO from their positions and responsibilities at the Company without the Board’s approval and with little or no notice. If our Manager resigns or our CEO/CFO are removed, we may not be able to find a new external manager or hire internal management with similar expertise within 90 days to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial results could be adversely affected, perhaps materially, and the market price of our LLC interests may decline substantially. In addition, the coordination of our internal management, acquisition activities and supervision of our businesses and investments are likely to suffer if we were unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by our Manager and its affiliates. Furthermore, if our Manager resigns, the Company and its subsidiaries will be required to cease use of the Macquarie brand entirely, and change their names to remove any reference to “Macquarie”. This may cause the value of the Company and the market price of our LLC interests to decline. 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our Manager’s affiliation with Macquarie Group Limited and the Macquarie Group may result in conflicts of interest or a decline in our stock price. Our Manager is an affiliate of Macquarie Group Limited and a member of the Macquarie Group. From time to time, we have entered into, and in the future we may enter into, transactions and relationships involving Macquarie Group Limited, its affiliates, or other members of the Macquarie Group. Such transactions have included and may include, among other things, the entry into debt facilities, and derivative instruments with members of the Macquarie Group serving as lender or counterparty, and financial advisory or equity underwriting services provided to us by the Macquarie Group. Although our audit committee, all of the members of which are independent directors, is required to approve of any related party transactions, including those involving members of the Macquarie Group or its affiliates, the relationship of our Manager to the Macquarie Group may result in conflicts of interest. In addition, as a result of our Manager’s being a member of the Macquarie Group, negative market perceptions of Macquarie Group Limited generally or of Macquarie’s infrastructure management model, or Macquarie Group statements or actions with respect to other managed vehicles, may affect market perceptions of our Company and cause a decline in the price of our LLC interests unrelated to our financial performance and prospects. In the event of the underperformance of our Manager, we may be unable to remove our Manager, which could limit our ability to improve our performance and could adversely affect the market price of our LLC interests. Under the terms of the management services agreement, our Manager must significantly underperform in order for the management services agreement to be terminated. The Company’s Board of Directors cannot remove our Manager unless: • our LLC interests underperform a weighted average of two benchmark indices by more than 30% in relative terms and more than 2.5% in absolute terms in 16 out of 20 consecutive quarters prior to and including the most recent full quarter, and the holders of a minimum of 66.67% of the outstanding LLC interests (excluding any LLC interests owned by our Manager or any affiliate of the Manager) vote to remove our Manager; • our Manager materially breaches the terms of the management services agreement and such breach continues unremedied for 60 days after notice; • our Manager acts with gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of its duties in carrying out its obligations under the management services agreement, or engages in fraudulent or dishonest acts; or • our Manager experiences certain bankruptcy events. Because our Manager’s performance is measured by the market performance of our LLC interests relative to a benchmark index, even if the absolute market performance of our LLC interests does not meet expectations, the Company’s Board of Directors cannot remove our Manager unless the market performance of our LLC interests also significantly underperforms the benchmark index. If we were unable to remove our Manager in circumstances where the absolute market performance of our LLC interests does not meet expectations, the market price of our LLC interests could be negatively affected. The market price and marketability of our LLC interests may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors beyond our control, which may adversely affect our ability to raise capital through future equity financings. The market price of our LLC interests may fluctuate significantly. Many factors that are beyond our control may significantly affect the market price and marketability of our LLC interests and may adversely affect our ability to raise capital through equity financings. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the stock markets generally; 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of Macquarie Group Limited and/or vehicles managed by the Macquarie Group or branded under the Macquarie name or logo; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of registered investment companies, business development companies or companies in our sectors, which may not be related to the operating performance of these companies; • changes in our earnings or variations in operating results; • any shortfall in EBITDA excluding non-cash items or Free Cash Flow from levels expected by securities analysts; • changes in regulatory policies or tax law; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; and • loss of funding sources. Risks Related to Taxation We have significant Net Operating Loss (“NOL”) Carryforwards that may be fully utilized over the next several years thereby subjecting us to payment of substantial federal income taxes and reducing our distributable Free Cash Flow. We may, without the deployment of additional capital, acquisition of businesses with NOLs, payment of performance fees or implementation of other strategies that provide us with additional tax shield, fully utilize our existing NOLs before the end of 2016. At that point we may be subject to federal income taxes in consolidation and any liability could be material. Any liability will reduce distributable Free Cash Flow and could prevent the growth or reduce the rate of growth of our dividends. The current treatment of qualified dividend income and long-term capital gains under current U.S. federal income tax law may be adversely affected, changed or repealed in the future. Under current law, qualified dividend income and long-term capital gains are taxed to non-corporate investors at a maximum U.S. federal income tax rate of 20% beginning in 2013. This tax treatment may be adversely affected, changed or repealed by future changes in tax laws at any time. In addition, certain holders that are individuals, estates or trusts are subject to 3.8% surtax on all or a portion of their “net investment income,” which may include all or a portion of their dividend income and net gains from the disposition of our LLC interests. This may affect market perceptions of our Company and the market price of our LLC interests could be negatively affected. Our ability to use our NOL carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, a corporation (or other entity taxable as a corporation, such as the Company) that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs and certain other tax attributes to offset future taxable income. Generally speaking, an “ownership change” occurs if the aggregate percentage ownership of the stock of the corporation held by one or more “five-percent shareholders” (as defined in the Code) increases by more than fifty percentage points over such shareholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the testing period, which is generally the three year-period ending on the transaction date. If we undergo an ownership change, our ability to utilize NOLs and certain other tax attributes could be limited. We have significant income tax NOLs, which may not be realized before they expire. We have $198.6 million in federal NOL carryforwards at December 31, 2013. While we have concluded that all but $7.8 million of the NOLs will more likely than not be realized, there can be no assurance that we will utilize the NOLs generated to date or any NOLs we might generate in the future. In addition, we have incurred state NOLs and have provided a valuation allowance against a portion of those. As with our federal NOLs, there is also no assurance that we will utilize those state losses or future losses that may be generated. 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS Further, the State of Illinois has suspended the use of NOL carryforwards through 2014, similar to the State of California’s suspension of an NOL deduction through 2011 for large corporations. There can be no assurance that other states will not suspend the use of NOL carryforwards or that California and Illinois will not extend the suspension of the use of NOL carryforwards. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 