ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings before making any investment decisions with respect to our common stock. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, prospects, reputation, results of operations, or financial condition could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and our stockholders could lose all or part of their investment. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and cannot assure you that we will again achieve profitability. The extent of our future operating income or losses is highly uncertain, and we may not be able to reach and sustain profitability. We have incurred significant cumulative net losses since our inception. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, were approximately $11.9 million, $27.7 million, and $8.4 million, respectively, reflecting a decline in revenues. At December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $101.7 million. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reach or sustain profitability. If physicians or other health care providers are unable to obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party health care payers for procedures performed using our products, the adoption of our products and our future product sales will be severely harmed. Widespread adoption of our products by the medical community is unlikely to occur if physicians do not receive sufficient reimbursement from third-party payers for performing procedures using our products. If physicians are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement for procedures performed using our products, we may be unable to sell our products and our business would suffer significantly. Additionally, even if these procedures are reimbursed by third-party payers, adverse changes in payers' policies toward reimbursement for the procedures would harm our ability to market and sell our products. Third-party payers include those governmental programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, workers' compensation programs, private health insurers and other organizations. These organizations may deny coverage if they determine that a procedure was not reasonable or necessary, for example, if its use was not considered medically appropriate, or was experimental, or was performed for an unapproved indication. In addition, some health care systems are moving towards managed care arrangements in which they contract to provide comprehensive health care for a fixed cost per person, irrespective of the amount of care actually provided. These providers, in an effort to control health care costs, are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and, in some instances, have pressured medical suppliers to lower their prices. If we are pressured to lower our prices, our revenues may decline and our profitability could be harmed. CMS guidelines set the reimbursement rates for procedures covered by Medicare. Future regulatory action by CMS or other governmental agencies or negative clinical results may diminish reimbursement payments to physicians for performing procedures using our products. Medicaid reimbursement differs from state to state, and some state Medicaid programs may not cover the procedures performed with our products or pay physicians an adequate amount for performing those procedures, if at all. Additionally, some private payers do not follow the Medicare guidelines and may reimburse for only a portion of these procedures or not at all. We are unable to predict what changes will be made in the reimbursement methods used by private or governmental third-party payers. On October 30, 2009, the Physician Fee Schedule for 2010 was published by CMS and included a new category I CPT code for nerve conduction studies performed with preconfigured electrode arrays, such as those utilized with our NC-stat System. It will likely take time to achieve broad physician 17 Table of Contents awareness of this CPT code, for implementation of this code within the Medicare system, and for the reimbursement effects, if any, of the Medicare code to be realized among other third-party payers. We are unable to predict when these events will occur, if ever. In addition, this new CPT code is billed per limb tested as opposed to per nerve. We anticipate that this change could result in decreased revenues and margins, at least in the near term. Prior to the assignment of the new CPT code, a significant number of commercial payers, including the majority of regional Blue Cross Blue Shield carriers, and other major private payers, had adopted policies indicating that they would not provide reimbursement for the use of our NC-stat System. These commercial payers had cited various reasons for their reimbursement policies, including, among others, that the NC-stat System is experimental and investigational. Third-party payers may also impose requirements on physicians to submit additional paperwork supporting the medical necessity of nerve conduction studies performed using the NC-stat System. We believe these requirements are negatively impacting the use of the NC-stat System by existing customers and our sales to new customers, both of which are having an adverse impact on our revenues. The recently published Medicare CPT code for nerve conduction studies performed with preconfigured electrode arrays such as those utilized with the NC-stat System may have a positive influence on future policy decisions by commercial payers regarding reimbursement for use of the NC-stat System, but at this time we cannot assure you of any positive impact such decisions may have on our revenues. These issues may also affect rates of reimbursement for our Vantage System, which we expect to be released in 2010. We face uncertainty relating to health care reform, which may make it difficult or impossible to sell our products on commercially reasonable terms. The efforts of governments and third-party payers to contain or reduce the cost of health care will continue to affect the business and financial condition of medical device companies including ours. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system are currently being discussed and could reduce or cap the reimbursement amounts for procedures performed using our products. Lower-than-expected, or decreases in reimbursement amounts for procedures performed using our products, may decrease the amounts physicians and other practitioners are able to charge patients, which in turn may adversely affect the willingness of physicians and other practitioners to purchase our products at the prices we target, or at all. If we are not able to sell our products at target prices, then we will suffer a decrease in expected profitability that would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to expand the market for the NC-stat and ADVANCE Systems, which would limit our ability to increase our revenues. For our future growth, we are relying, in part, on increased use of nerve conduction studies by physicians. A number of factors could limit the increased use of nerve conduction studies and consequently, the need for the NC-stat and ADVANCE Systems to perform the studies, including: •third-party payers challenging, or the threat of third-party payers challenging, the necessity of increased levels of nerve conduction studies; •third-party payers reducing or eliminating reimbursement for procedures performed by physicians using the NC-stat System; •decreased rates of patient visits to physicians; •unfavorable experiences by physicians using the NC-stat or ADVANCE System; •physicians' lack of awareness of, or reluctance to rely on, the new CPT code for reimbursement of nerve conduction studies performed with preconfigured electrode arrays; 18 Table of Contents •physicians' reluctance to alter their existing practices; and •the failure of other companies' existing drug development programs to produce an effective treatment for DPN, which may limit the perceived need and the actual use of the NC-stat System in connection with this disease, and thereby limit or delay our growth in the DPN market, which we have estimated to be our largest potential market for our NC-stat System. If we are unable to expand the market for the NC-stat and ADVANCE Systems, our ability to increase our revenues will be limited and our business prospects will be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully sell our products to primary care, specialist physicians and other health care providers, our ability to increase our revenues will be limited. We are focusing our sales and marketing efforts for the NC-stat System on primary care physicians and for the ADVANCE System on specialist physicians. We may be unable to convince these physicians that our products provide effective diagnostic solutions. In addition, these physicians may be reluctant to make the capital investment required to purchase the NC-stat System, ADVANCE System, or the Vantage System. We intend to focus our sales and marketing efforts for the Vantage System on primary care physicians. If we are unable to successfully sell our products to primary care physicians and specialist physicians, our ability to increase our revenues will be severely limited. We are dependent on several single source manufacturers to produce the NC-stat and ADVANCE Systems and any changes in our relationships with these manufacturers could prevent us from delivering products to our customers in a timely manner and may adversely impact our future revenues or costs. We rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture all of the components of the NC-stat and ADVANCE Systems. In the event that our manufacturers cease to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products in a timely manner and on terms acceptable to us, we would be forced to locate alternate manufacturers. Additionally, if our manufacturers experience a failure in their production process, are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of the components necessary to manufacture our products or otherwise fail to meet our quality requirements, we may be forced to delay the manufacture and sale of our products or locate an alternative manufacturer. We may be unable to locate suitable alternative manufacturers for our products, particularly our electrodes, for which the manufacturing process is relatively specialized, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We have entered into exclusive manufacturing and supply agreements with Parlex for the manufacture of the electrodes, and Sunburst for the manufacture of our NC-stat and ADVANCE monitors, docking stations and communication hubs. We have experienced transient inventory shortages on new products during the initial production ramp-up phase. If any of the changes in our relationships with these manufacturers occurs, our ability to supply our customers will be severely limited until we are able to engage an alternate manufacturer or, if applicable, resolve any quality issues with our existing manufacturer. This situation could prevent us from delivering products to our customers in a timely manner, lead to decreased sales or increased costs, or harm our reputation with our customers. If our manufacturers are unable to supply us with an adequate supply of products as we expand our markets, we could lose customers, our potential future growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. In order for us to successfully expand our business within the United States and internationally, our contract manufacturers must be able to provide us with substantial quantities of our products in compliance with regulatory requirements, in accordance with agreed upon specifications, at acceptable cost and on a timely basis. Our potential future growth could strain the ability of our manufacturers to deliver products and obtain materials and components in sufficient quantities. Manufacturers often 19 Table of Contents experience difficulties in scaling up production, including problems with production yields and quality control and assurance. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of high quality products to meet customer demand on a timely basis, we could lose customers, our growth may be limited and our business could be harmed. We currently rely entirely on sales of the products that comprise the NC-stat and ADVANCE Systems to generate substantially all of our revenues, and any factors that negatively impact our sales of these products could significantly reduce our ability to generate revenues. We introduced the NC-stat System to the market in May 1999 and the ADVANCE System in June 2008. We derive substantially all of our revenues from sales of the products that comprise these two systems, and we expect that sales of these products will continue to constitute the majority of our sales for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, our ability to generate revenues is reliant on our ability to market and sell the products that comprise the NC-stat and ADVANCE Systems, particularly electrodes, sales of which accounted for approximately 90-91% of our total revenues in each of the past three years. Our sales of these products may be negatively impacted by many factors, including: •changes in reimbursement rates or policies relating to our products by third-party payers; •rate of adoption of the new Medicare Category I CPT code for nerve conduction studies performed with pre-configured electrode arrays, such as are utilized with the NC-stat System; •the failure of the market to accept our products; •manufacturing problems; •claims that our products infringe on patent rights or other intellectual property rights owned by other parties; •adverse regulatory or legal actions relating to our products; •competitive pricing and related factors; and •results of clinical trials relating to our products or our competitors' products. If any of these events occurs, our ability to generate revenues could be significantly reduced. The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to advance our pipeline products to commercialization. Currently, our revenues are entirely dependent upon sales of our NC-stat and ADVANCE Systems and those sales have been declining in recent quarters. In our product pipeline, Vantage, the anticipated successor to our current NC-stat System, is targeted for commercial launch in 2010, following the achievement of certain development and regulatory milestones. ASCEND, another device under development, is targeted for commercial launch in the second half of 2010 following the achievement of certain development and regulatory milestones. If we are not successful advancing our pipeline products through development, the regulatory process and commercial launch, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected. We expect that advancing our pipeline products to commercialization, if possible, will require significant time and resources. We may not be successful in our commercialization efforts of any of the product candidates currently in our pipeline and we may not be successful developing, acquiring, or in-licensing additional product candidates, to the extent we decide to do so. 20 Table of Contents The patent rights we rely upon to protect the intellectual property underlying our products may not be adequate, which could enable third parties to use our technology and would harm our ability to compete in the market. Our success will depend in part on our ability to develop or acquire commercially valuable patent rights and to protect these rights adequately. The risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents and other related rights include the following: •the pending patent applications we have filed or to which we have exclusive rights may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; •the claims of any patents that are issued may not provide meaningful protection; •we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; •other parties may challenge patents, patent claims or patent applications licensed or issued to us; and •other companies may design around technologies we have patented, licensed or developed. We also may not be able to protect our patent rights effectively in some foreign countries. For a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent protection. Our patent rights underlying our products may not be adequate, and our competitors or customers may design around our proprietary technologies or independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing on any of our patent rights. In addition, the patents licensed or issued to us may not provide a competitive advantage. If any of these events were to occur, our ability to compete in the market would be harmed. Other rights and measures we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate, which would harm our ability to compete in the market. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, confidentiality, nondisclosure and assignment of invention agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. In particular, we have sought no patent protection for the technology and algorithms we use in our onCall Information System. We rely on trade secrets to protect this information. While we currently require employees, consultants and other third parties to enter into confidentiality, non-disclosure or assignment of invention agreements or a combination thereof where appropriate, any of the following could still occur: •the agreements may be breached; •we may have inadequate remedies for any breach; •trade secrets and other proprietary information could be disclosed to our competitors; or •others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technologies. If, for any of the above reasons, our intellectual property is disclosed or misappropriated, it would harm our ability to protect our rights and our competitive position. We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, which could be expensive and, if we lose, could cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights, which would harm our ability to compete in the market. We rely on patents to protect a portion of our intellectual property and our competitive position. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving and, consequently, patent positions in the medical device industry are generally uncertain. In order to 21 Table of Contents protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. Litigation may be necessary to: •assert claims of infringement; •enforce our patents; •protect our trade secrets or know-how; or •determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any lawsuits that we initiate could be expensive, take significant time and divert management's attention from other business concerns. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, our ability to compete in the market or our reputation. Claims that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of others could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and increase our costs. Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the medical device industry. We expect that our products could be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors grows and the functionality of products and technology in different industry segments overlap. Third parties may currently have, or may eventually be issued, patents on which our products or technologies may infringe. Any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us. Any litigation regardless of its impact would likely result in the expenditure of significant financial resources and the diversion of management's time and resources. In addition, litigation in which we are accused of infringement may cause negative publicity, adversely impact prospective customers, cause product shipment delays or require us to develop non-infringing technology, make substantial payments to third parties, or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If a successful claim of infringement were made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our revenues may decrease substantially and we could be exposed to significant liability. We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, which could restrict the sales and marketing of the NC-stat or ADVANCE Systems and could cause us to incur significant costs. We sell medical devices that are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA for manufacturing, labeling, sale, promotion, distribution and shipping. Before a new medical device, or a new use of or claim for an existing product, can be marketed in the United States, it must first be cleared or approved by the FDA. Medical devices may be marketed only for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. The regulatory review process can be expensive and lengthy. The FDA's process for granting 510(k) clearance takes approximately three months, but it can be significantly longer. The process for obtaining PMA is much more costly and uncertain and it generally takes from one to three years, or longer, from the time the application is filed with the FDA. Our clearances can be rescinded if safety or effectiveness problems develop. Further, we may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearances or pre-market approvals for new products or for modifications to, or additional indications for, our existing products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearances or approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our revenue and future profitability. We have made modifications to our devices in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees, and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall 22 Table of Contents and to stop marketing the modified devices. If any of these events occur or if the FDA takes other enforcement actions, we may not be able to provide our customers with the products they require on a timely basis, our reputation could be harmed, and we could lose customers and suffer reduced revenues and increased costs. In particular, our business could be adversely impacted in the event that we do not obtain 510(k) clearance for the portions of the onCall Information System that were the subject of our 510(k) filing in the fourth quarter of 2006. Because the portions of the onCall Information System under review are currently in use, if the FDA does not clear them, we may be required to modify or remove the portions of the onCall Information System that are under review. Any such modifications could make the NC-stat System more time consuming for physicians, which could adversely impact our ability to generate revenues from the NC-stat System, or more expensive for us to operate. Either of these could have a material adverse impact on our business. We also are subject to numerous post-marketing regulatory requirements, including quality system regulations, which relate to the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation and servicing of our products, labeling regulations, medical device reporting regulations and correction and removal reporting regulations. Our failure or the failure by any manufacturer of our products to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: •warning letters, fines, injunctions, product seizures, consent decrees and civil penalties; •requiring repair, replacement, refunds, notifications or recall of our products; •imposing operating restrictions, suspension or shutdown of production; •refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to existing products; •rescinding 510(k) clearances or withdrawing PMA approvals that have already been granted; and •criminal prosecution. If any of these events were to occur, they could harm our reputation, our ability to generate revenues and our profitability. Also, from time to time, legislation is introduced into Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the approval, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. The FDA has publicly stated that is reevaluating its longstanding 510(k) review program and recently held a public hearing as part of its reevaluation process. It is not clear when, if ever, the program will be modified, and if it is, what effect the modified review process will have on our ability to bring our product candidates to market. Because our lead therapeutic product candidate is in a very early stage of development, there is a high risk of failure, and we may never succeed in developing marketable pharmacologic compounds or generating product revenue from them. We do not have any therapeutic products that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale and do not expect to have any commercial therapeutic products on the market for at least the next several years, if at all. We are currently planning Phase 1 trials for our lead compound, NM101, for use in chronic spinal cord injury and are performing the pre-clinical work required to file an investigational new drug application with the FDA. Trial and error is inherent in science, and we may fail at numerous stages along the way. Success in preclinical studies of a therapeutic product may not be predictive of similar results in humans during clinical trials, and successful results from early clinical trials of a 23 Table of Contents therapeutic product may not be replicated in later clinical trials. We will only receive regulatory approval to commercialize a product candidate if we can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or the applicable foreign regulatory authority, in well-designed and conducted clinical trials, that the therapeutic product is safe and effective and otherwise meets the appropriate standards required for approval for a particular indication. Clinical trials are lengthy, complex, and extremely expensive processes with uncertain results. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials may occur at any stage of testing. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. Additionally, if our clinical trials are unsuccessful or if we decide to discontinue our clinical trials, it could cause adverse publicity, and thus could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If the FDA does not approve the HDE application for our Andara™ OFS™ System, we will not be able to market this system in the United States. In September 2006, the FDA designated the Andara™ OFS™ device as a HUD, a designation based on a potential U.S. patient population of less than 4,000 patients per year. As the second of two steps in the HUD approval process, Cyberkinetics filed a HDE application in February 2007. We acquired the assets relating to Andara from Cyberkinetics in January 2009. Approval of the HDE by the FDA requires that we demonstrate the device would not expose patients to an unreasonable or significant risk of illness or injury and that the probable benefit to health from the use of the device outweighs the risk of injury or illness from its use, taking into account the probable risks and benefits of currently available devices or alternate forms of treatment. In May 2007, the FDA sent Cyberkinetics a letter informing them that it had completed an initial scientific review of the application and indicating that it required additional information to determine if the device meets the statutory criteria for approval. In response to the FDA's letter, Cyberkinetics amended the HDE application in July 2007. In December 2007, the FDA sent a letter indicating that it had completed an initial scientific review of the July amendment and that it required additional information to determine if the device met the statutory criteria for approval. The letter requested additional information related to clinical data, study analysis, biocompatibility, sterilization, device description, and labeling. In February 2008, Cyberkinetics met with members of the FDA review staff, including the Director and Deputy Director of the division responsible for the HDE review, regarding Cyberkinetics HDE application. Following this meeting, in March 2008, Cyberkinetics submitted an amendment addressing the specific questions contained in the December 2007 letter from the FDA. In November 2008, the FDA sent Cyberkinetics a letter requesting additional information. NeuroMetrix responded to this letter on July 23, 2009. On October 30, 2009, the FDA sent NeuroMetrix a letter stating that they did not believe that the currently available data set (8 subjects with cervical injuries) was large enough to demonstrate the safety and probable benefit of the device for treatment of acute cervical spinal cord injuries. The FDA also requested the use of a concurrent control group. The FDA agreed that improvement in sensory function and pain reduction, the primary therapeutic benefits of the device, would be beneficial to subjects with spinal cord injuries. We believe that approval of the HDE application will require the performance of an additional clinical trial, which may be lengthy and/or expensive. There is no assurance that such a clinical trial, should we choose to perform one, will be successful or, even if successful, that the results of such a clinical trial will address all of the FDA's concerns and lead to approval of the HDE. If the FDA does not grant its approval, we will not be able to market the Andara™ OFS™ device in the United States. 24 Table of Contents If we or the manufacturers of our products fail to comply with the FDA's quality system regulation, the manufacturing and distribution of our products could be interrupted, and our product sales and operating results could suffer. We and our contract manufacturers are required to comply with the FDA's quality system regulation, or QSR, which is a complex regulation that governs the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our devices. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic inspections. We cannot assure you that our facilities or the facilities of the manufacturers of our products would pass any future inspection. If our or any of the facilities of the manufacturers of our products fail an inspection, the manufacturing or distribution of our products could be interrupted and our operations disrupted. Failure to take adequate and timely corrective action in response to an adverse inspection could result in a suspension or shutdown of our packaging and labeling operations and the operations of the manufacturers of our products or a recall of our products, or other administrative or judicial sanctions. If any of these events occurs, we may not be able to provide our customers with the quantity of products they require on a timely basis, our reputation could be harmed, and we could lose customers and suffer reduced revenues and increased costs. Our products may be subject to recalls even after receiving FDA clearance or approval, which would harm our reputation, business and financial results. We are subject to the medical device reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or have malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to occur. We are also subject to the correction and removal reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA any field corrections and device recalls or removals that we undertake to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FDCA caused by the device which may present a risk to health. In addition, the FDA and similar governmental agencies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products if there is a reasonable probability that the products would cause serious adverse health consequences or death. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of manufacturing defects, labeling deficiencies, packaging defects or other failures to comply with applicable regulations. Any recall would divert management attention and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers. A recall involving the NC-stat or ADVANCE Systems would be particularly harmful to our business and financial results because the products that comprise the NC-stat and ADVANCE Systems currently produce substantially all of our revenues. We are subject to federal and state laws prohibiting "kickbacks" and false or fraudulent claims, which, if violated, could subject us to substantial penalties. Additionally, any challenge to or investigation into our practices under these laws could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business. A federal law commonly known as the federal anti-kickback law, and several similar state laws, prohibit the payment of any remuneration that is intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of health care products or services. These laws constrain a medical device company's sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of business relationships and financial arrangements, including sales programs we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of medical devices. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. From time to time, we may provide coding and billing information as product support to purchasers of our products. Anti-kickback 25 Table of Contents and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance, which can be quite substantial including exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. A number of states have enacted laws that require pharmaceutical and medical device companies to monitor and report payments, gifts and other remuneration made to physicians and other health care professionals and health care organizations. Some state statutes, such as the one in Massachusetts, impose an outright ban on gifts to physicians. These laws are often referred to as "gift ban" or "aggregate spend" laws and carry substantial fines if they are violated. Similar legislation, known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, has been introduced in Congress each year for the past several years but has not yet been enacted. In the event that we are found to have violated these laws or determine to settle a claim that we have done so, our business may be materially adversely affected as a result of any payments required to be made, restrictions on our future operations or actions required to be taken, damage to our business reputation or adverse publicity in connection with such a finding or settlement or other adverse effects relating thereto. Additionally, even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. In February 2009, we announced that we had reached a resolution with the United States Department of Justice, or DOJ, and the Office of Inspector General, or OIG, of the United States Department of Health and Human Services regarding the previously-disclosed investigation into certain of our past sales and marketing practices relating to our NC-stat System. As part of the resolution with the DOJ and OIG, we entered into a three-year Deferred Prosecution Agreement with the DOJ and a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement with the OIG. Failure to comply with the terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement and the Corporate Integrity Agreement could result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and being excluded from government health care programs, which could materially reduce our sales and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are found to have violated laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business. There are a number of federal and state laws protecting the confidentiality of individually identifiable patient health information, including patient records, and restricting the use and disclosure of that protected information. In particular, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services promulgated patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. These privacy rules protect medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting of their own health information and limiting most use and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose. Although we do not believe that we are subject to the HIPAA rules, the exact scope of these rules has not been clearly established. If we are found to be in violation of the privacy rules under HIPAA, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business. The use of our products could result in product liability claims that could be expensive, damage our reputation and harm our business. Our business exposes us to an inherent risk of potential product liability claims related to the manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical devices. The medical device industry historically has been litigious, and we face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of our products were to cause or contribute to injury or death. In particular, the NC-stat or ADVANCE Systems may be susceptible to claims of injury because they involve the electric stimulation of a patient's nerves. Although we maintain product liability insurance for our products and other commercial insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. As sales and use of our 26 Table of Contents products increase, we may be unable to maintain sufficient product liability or other commercial insurance on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs, and this insurance may not provide us with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. A successful claim brought against us in excess of, or outside of, our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in substantial costs to us, a substantial diversion of management attention and adverse publicity. A product liability claim could also harm our reputation and result in a decline in revenues and an increase in expenses. Our products are complex in design, and defects may not be discovered prior to shipment to customers, which could result in warranty obligations or product liability or other claims, reducing our revenues and increasing our costs and liabilities. We depend upon third parties for the manufacture of our products. Our products, particularly our electrodes, require a significant degree of technical expertise to produce. If these manufacturers fail to produce our products to specification, or if the manufacturers use defective materials or workmanship in the manufacturing process, the reliability and performance of our products will be compromised. If our products contain defects that cannot be repaired quickly, easily and inexpensively, we may experience: •loss of customer orders and delay in order fulfillment; •damage to our brand reputation; •increased cost of our warranty program due to product repair or replacement; •inability to attract new customers; •diversion of resources from our manufacturing and research and development departments into our service department; and •legal action. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing could harm our reputation and materially reduce our revenues and increase our costs and liabilities. If we lose any of our officers or key employees, our management and technical expertise could be weakened significantly. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our officers, including Shai N. Gozani, M.D., Ph.D., our founder, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Thomas T. Higgins, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Walter Christensen, our Senior Vice President of Global Sales; Guy Daniello, our Senior Vice President of Information Technology; Michael Williams, Ph.D., our Senior Vice President of Engineering; and our other key employees. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies covering any of our employees. The loss of any of our officers or key employees could weaken our management and technical expertise significantly and harm our business. If we are unable to recruit, hire and retain skilled and experienced personnel, our ability to manage and expand our business will be harmed, which would impair our future revenues and profitability. We are a small company with only 102 employees as of December 31, 2009, and our ability to retain our skilled labor force and our success in attracting and hiring new skilled employees will be a critical factor in determining our future performance. We may not be able to meet our future hiring needs or retain existing personnel, particularly given the challenges our business has recently faced. We 27 Table of Contents will face challenges and risks in hiring, training, managing and retaining engineering and sales and marketing employees. Failure to attract and retain personnel, particularly technical and sales and marketing personnel would materially harm our ability to compete effectively and grow our business. If we do not effectively manage our future potential growth, our business resources may become strained, we may not be able to deliver our products in a timely manner and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Future potential growth of our business may provide challenges to our organization and may strain our management and operations. We may misjudge the amount of time or resources that will be required to effectively manage any anticipated or unanticipated growth in our business or we may not be able to attract, hire and retain sufficient personnel to meet our needs. If we cannot scale our business appropriately, maintain control over expenses or otherwise adapt to anticipated and unanticipated growth, our business resources may become strained, we may not be able to deliver our products in a timely manner and our results of operations may be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully expand, develop and retain our sales force, our revenues may decline, our future revenue growth may be limited and our expenses may increase. We are highly dependent on our regional sales managers to generate our revenues. Our ability to build and develop a strong sales force will be affected by a number of factors, including: •our ability to attract, integrate and motivate sales personnel; •our ability to effectively train our sales force; •the ability of our sales force to sell an increased number of products; •the length of time it takes new sales personnel to become productive; •the competition we face from other companies in hiring and retaining sales personnel; •our ability to effectively manage a multi-location sales organization; •our ability to enter into agreements with prospective members of our sales force on commercially reasonable terms; and •our ability to get our independent international sales distributors who may sell products of multiple companies to commit the necessary resources to effectively market and sell our products. If we are unable to successfully build, develop and retain a strong sales force and international sales distributors, our revenues may decline, our revenue growth may be limited and our expenses may increase. Failure to develop or enter into relationships to sell products other than our existing products or enhance our existing products could have an adverse effect on our business prospects. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the majority of our revenues were derived from selling the NC-stat and ADVANCE Systems. Our future business and financial success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to introduce or sell new products and upgraded products into the marketplace. Developing new products and upgrades to existing and future products imposes burdens on our research and development department and our management. This process is costly, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop new products or enhance the current systems or any of our other current or future products. We also may not be able to enter into relationships with other companies to sell additional products. In addition, as we develop the market for our products, future competitors may develop desirable product features earlier than we do which could make our 28 Table of Contents competitors' products less expensive or more effective than our products and could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. If our product development efforts are unsuccessful, we will have incurred significant costs without recognizing the expected benefits and our business prospects may suffer. We currently compete, and may in the future need to compete, against other medical device companies with potentially greater resources, more established distribution channels and other competitive advantages, and the success of these competitors may harm our ability to generate revenues. We currently do, and in the future may need to, compete directly and indirectly with a number of other companies that may have competitive advantages over us. We compete with companies that sell traditional NCS/nEMG equipment including CareFusion Corporation, Cadwell Laboratories, Inc., and Natus Medical Incorporated. Of these companies, CareFusion Corporation, in particular, enjoys significant competitive advantages, including: •greater resources for product development, sales and marketing; •more established distribution networks; •greater name recognition; •more established relationships with health care professionals, customers and third-party payers; and •additional lines of products and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer discounts or incentives. As we develop the market for point-of-service nerve conduction studies, we may be faced with competition from these companies or others that decide and are able to enter this market. Some or all of our future competitors in the point-of-service market may enjoy competitive advantages such as those described above. If we are unable to compete effectively against existing and future competitors, our sales will decline and our business will be harmed. We are dependent upon the computer and communications infrastructure employed and utilized by our onCall Information System and any failures or disruptions in this infrastructure could impact our revenues and profit margins or harm our reputation. We are dependent upon the computer and communications infrastructure employed and utilized by our onCall Information System. Our computer and communications infrastructure consists of standard hardware, off-the-shelf system software components, database servers, proprietary application servers, a modem bank and desktop applications. Our future success will depend, in part, upon the maintenance and growth of this infrastructure. Any failures or outages of this infrastructure as a result of a computer virus, intentional disruption of our systems by a third-party, manufacturing failure, telephone system failure, fire, storm, flood, power loss or other similar events, could prevent or delay the operation of our onCall Information System, which could result in increased costs to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns and harm our reputation with our customers. In addition, if our infrastructure fails to accommodate growth in customer transactions, customer satisfaction could be impaired, we could lose customers, our ability to add customers could be impaired or our costs could be increased, any of which would harm our business. If future clinical studies or other articles are published, or physician associations or other organizations announce positions, that are unfavorable to our products, our sales efforts and revenues may be negatively affected. Future clinical studies or other articles regarding our existing products or any competing products may be published that either support a claim, or are perceived to support a claim, that a competitor's 29 Table of Contents product is more accurate or effective than our products or that our products are not as accurate or effective as we claim or previous clinical studies have concluded. Additionally, physician associations or other organizations that may be viewed as authoritative or have an economic interest in nerve conduction studies and in related electrodiagnostic procedures or other procedures that may be performed using our products could endorse products or methods that compete with our products or otherwise announce positions that are unfavorable to our products. We have experienced this with the professional societies representing the neurology community. Any of these events may negatively affect our sales efforts and result in decreased revenues. Our future capital needs are uncertain and will depend on many factors. Although we believe that our current cash and cash equivalents together with our short-term investments and the cash to be generated from expected product sales will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements into 2011, our capital requirements are uncertain and will depend on many factors, including: •the revenues generated by sales of our products; •the costs associated with our sales and marketing efforts; •the expenses we incur in manufacturing and selling our products; •the costs of developing new products or technologies and enhancements to existing products; •the successful commercial launch of our Vantage and ASCEND Systems; •the cost of obtaining and maintaining FDA approval or clearance of our products and products in development; •the costs associated with any expansion; and •the number and timing of any acquisitions or other strategic transactions. As a result of these factors, we may need to raise additional funds, and these funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. If any of these events occurs, our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals would be adversely affected. If we choose to acquire or invest in new businesses, products or technologies, instead of developing them ourselves, these acquisitions or investments could disrupt our business and could result in the use of significant amounts of equity, cash or a combination of both. From time to time we may seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies, instead of developing them ourselves. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: •the inability to complete the acquisition or investment; •disruption of our ongoing businesses and diversion of management attention; •difficulties in integrating the acquired entities, products or technologies; 30 Table of Contents •difficulties in operating the acquired business profitably; •the inability to achieve anticipated synergies, cost savings or growth; •potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired business; •difficulties in transitioning and maintaining key customer, distributor and supplier relationships; •risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and •unanticipated costs. In addition, any future acquisitions or investments may result in one or more of the following: •issuances of dilutive equity securities, which may be sold at a discount to market price; •the use of significant amounts of cash; •the incurrence of debt; •the assumption of significant liabilities; •increased operating costs or reduced earnings; •financing obtained on unfavorable terms; •large one-time expenses; and •the creation of certain intangible assets, including goodwill, the write-down of which may result in significant charges to earnings. Any of these factors could materially harm our stock price, our business or our operating results. As we continue to expand into foreign markets, we will be affected by new business risks that may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Foreign markets represented 2% of our revenues in 2009 and we are working to expand market penetration, particularly in Europe. As we continue to expand into foreign markets, we will be subject to new business risks, including: •failure to fulfill foreign regulatory requirements to market our products; •availability of, and changes in, reimbursement within prevailing foreign health care payment systems; •adapting to the differing business practices and laws in foreign countries; •difficulties in managing foreign relationships and operations, including any relationships that we establish with foreign distributors or sales or marketing agents; •limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; •difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; •costs of enforcing contractual obligations in foreign jurisdictions; •recessions in economies outside of the United States; •political instability and unexpected changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; •currency exchange rate fluctuations; and •potentially adverse tax consequences. 31 Table of Contents If we are successful in introducing our products into foreign markets, we will be affected by these additional business risks, which may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, expansion into foreign markets imposes additional burdens on our executive and administrative personnel, research and sales departments, and general managerial resources. Our efforts to introduce our products into foreign markets may not be successful, in which case we may have expended significant resources without realizing the expected benefit. Ultimately, the investment required for expansion into foreign markets could exceed the revenues generated from this expansion. If we are unsuccessful in pending and potential litigation matters, our financial condition may be adversely affected. We are currently involved in various pending and potential legal proceedings, including a class action lawsuit against certain of our current and former officers and directors relating to allegedly making false and misleading statements and failing to disclose material information to the investing public and engaging in improper business practices. If we are ultimately unsuccessful in any of these matters, we could be required to pay substantial amounts of cash to the other parties including any legal fees not covered by our insurance. The amount and timing of any of these payments could adversely affect our financial condition. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law, and those anti-takeover provisions that we previously adopted in 2007, may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions: •authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock; •provide for a classified board of directors, with each director serving a staggered three-year term; •prohibit our stockholders from filling board vacancies, calling special stockholder meetings, or taking action by written consent; •provide for the removal of a director only with cause and by the affirmative vote of the holders of 75% or more of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of our directors; and •require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. We have also adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or could discourage a third party from acquiring, the Company or a large block of our common stock. A third party that acquires 15% or more of our common stock (an "acquiring person") could suffer substantial dilution of its ownership interest under the terms of the Shareholder Rights Plan through the issuance of common stock to all stockholders other than the acquiring person. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our 32 Table of Contents common stock to decline. We amended the Shareholder Rights Plan in connection with the private placement that we completed in September 2009 in order to provide that the acquisition of common stock in that placement by an existing stockholder would not be considered a triggering event thereunder. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility may preclude us from paying any dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders' sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 