Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following information about these risks, together with the other information contained in this Form 10-K, in considering whether to invest in or hold our common stock. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business or results of operations. Any of the risks described below could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, and a corresponding decline in the market price of our common stock. You could lose all or part of your investment. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. See “Item 1.—Note on Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business If our actual loss and loss adjustment expenses exceed our loss reserves, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly adversely affected. Our results of operations and financial condition depend upon our ability to assess accurately the potential losses associated with the risks that we insure and reinsure. We establish loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred under the policies that we write. Loss reserves include case reserves, which are established for specific claims that have been reported to us, and reserves for claims that have been incurred but not reported (or “IBNR”). To the extent that loss and loss adjustment expenses exceed our estimates, we will be required to immediately recognize the less favorable experience and increase loss reserves, with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. For example, over the past ten years we have experienced adverse development of reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred in prior years: In 2002, following an annual review by an outside actuarial consulting company of TICNY’s net loss and loss adjustment reserves, we increased such reserves by $2.9 million. Although loss reserves on property lines of business tend to be relatively predictable from an actuarial standpoint, the reserving process for losses on the liability coverage portions of our commercial and personal lines policies possesses characteristics that make case and IBNR reserving inherently less susceptible to accurate actuarial estimation. Unlike property losses, liability losses are claims made by third parties of which the policyholder may not be aware and therefore may be reported a significant time after the occurrence, sometimes years. As liability claims most often involve claims of bodily injury, assessment of the proper case reserve is a far more subjective process than claims involving property damages. In addition, the determination of a case reserve for a liability claim is often without the benefit of information, which develops slowly over the life of the claim and can subject the case reserve to substantial modification well after the claim was first reported. Numerous factors impact the liability case reserving 43 process, such as venue, the amount of monetary damage, the permanence of the injury, the age of the claimant and many others. Estimating an appropriate level of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves is an inherently uncertain process. Accordingly, actual loss and loss adjustment expenses paid will likely deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our consolidated financial statements. It is possible that claims could exceed our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Many of our quota share reinsurance agreements contain provisions for a ceding commission under which the commission rate that we receive varies inversely with the loss ratio on the ceded premiums, with higher commission rates corresponding to lower loss ratios and vice-versa. The loss ratio depends on our estimate of the loss and loss adjustment expense reserves on the ceded business. As a result, the same uncertainties associated with estimating loss and loss adjustment expense reserves affect the estimates of ceding commissions earned. If and to the extent that we have to increase our reserves on the business that is subject to these reinsurance agreements, we may have to reduce the ceding commission rate, which would amplify the reduction in our net income in the period in which the increase in our reserves is made. TICNY, TRM and TNIC conduct business in a concentrated geographical area. Any single catastrophe or other condition affecting losses in this area could adversely affect our results of operations. TICNY currently writes business in a concentrated geographic area, primarily in the southern and western portions of New York State, and reinsures business produced by TRM in New York and to a lesser extent in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. TNIC currently writes business primarily in New Jersey, along with Pennsylvania, Massachusetts and New York. As a result, a single catastrophe occurrence, destructive weather pattern, terrorist attack, regulatory development or other condition or general economic trend affecting the region within which TICNY, TNIC and TRM conduct their business could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations more significantly than other insurance companies that conduct business across a broader geographical area. During our history, we have not experienced any single event that materially affected our results of operations. The most significant single event was the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, as a result of which we suffered $391,000 in net losses. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable and our losses from catastrophes could be substantial. The occurrence of claims from catastrophic events is likely to result in substantial volatility in our financial condition or results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and our ability to write new business. Increases in the values and concentrations of insured property may increase the severity of such occurrences in the future. Although we attempt to manage our exposure to such events, including through the use of reinsurance, the frequency or severity of catastrophic events could exceed our estimates. As a result, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We are heavily dependent on CastlePoint for underwriting capacity and commission and fee income. We are and will be heavily dependent on CastlePoint for underwriting capacity and commission and fee income through reinsurance and pooling agreements. For the period ended December 31, 2006, CastlePoint assumed approximately 38% of our gross premiums written through reinsurance. Effective January 1, 2007, CastlePoint will assume, through a combination of pooling and reinsurance, approximately 49% of our brokerage business premiums. By our mutual agreement with CastlePoint, the terms of our quota share reinsurance agreements and pooling agreements with CastlePoint have been extended by an additional year, so that we currently have a four year commitment from CastlePoint, subject to certain early termination rights, for CastlePoint to assume from us a substantial portion of our premiums. However, we currently do not have any arrangements in place with CastlePoint to maintain its 44 reinsurance agreements or pooling agreements with us after four years. There is no assurance that these arrangements will remain in place beyond their current term and we may not be able to readily replace these arrangements if they terminate. If we are unable to continue or replace our current reinsurance arrangements on equally favorable terms, our underwriting capacity and commission and fee income would decline, we may experience a downgrade in our A.M. Best rating, and our results of operations would be adversely affected. If we cannot obtain adequate reinsurance protection for the risks we have underwritten, we may be exposed to greater losses from these risks or we may reduce the amount of business we underwrite, which will reduce our revenues. Under state insurance law, insurance companies are required to maintain a certain level of capital in support of the policies they issue. In addition, rating agencies will reduce an insurance company’s ratings if the company’s premiums exceed specified multiples of its capital. As a result, the level of TICNY’s and TNIC’s statutory surplus and capital limits the amount of premiums that they can write and on which they can retain risk. Historically, we have utilized reinsurance to expand our capacity to write more business than TICNY’s surplus would have otherwise supported. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, insurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that they consider adequate for their business needs. For example, beginning in 2001, terms and conditions in the reinsurance market generally became less attractive for insurers seeking reinsurance. In addition, recent investigations by the New York State Attorney General, the SEC and other regulatory and government bodies into the use of non-traditional reinsurance by certain reinsurers have led to the re-examination of applicable accounting standards, which we believe has led to a reduction in the availability of some types of reinsurance. In turn, these developments could produce unfavorable changes in prices, reduced ceding commission revenue or other potentially adverse changes in the terms of reinsurance. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain our desired amounts of reinsurance. In addition, even if we are able to obtain such reinsurance, we may not be able to obtain such reinsurance from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness or negotiate terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable. We have entered into multi-year quota share reinsurance agreements with CastlePoint and have agreed to enter into pooling agreements with CastlePoint to be effective January 1, 2007, subject to regulatory approvals, which should provide sufficient capacity to write the business that we are currently producing. Because we have made an investment in CastlePoint and our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Michael H. Lee, serves as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of that company, we have been deemed, under the provisions of the New York State Insurance Law and applicable regulations, to be under common control with CastlePoint and any U.S. insurance companies that CastlePoint may acquire and we may be deemed to be under common control under the laws and regulations of other states in which our or CastlePoint’s insurance subsidiaries are domiciled. As a result, we cannot be bound by any reinsurance agreements or pooling agreements unless 30 days advance notice is provided to the New York State Insurance Department proposing our intention to enter into such agreements, and the New York State Insurance Department does not disapprove of these agreements within such period. There can be no assurance that the New York State Insurance Department will approve the terms and conditions of these agreements. If discussions with respect to reinsurance or pooling agreements and the regulatory approval process do not result in reaching acceptable terms and execution, we will seek reinsurance protection and additional capacity elsewhere. However, if we cannot obtain adequate reinsurance protection for the risks we have underwritten, we may be exposed to greater losses from these risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. If we cannot obtain our desired amount 45 of reinsurance or additional capacity to write business through risk sharing or pooling agreements, we may be forced to reduce the amount of business that we underwrite, which will reduce our revenues. If we are able to obtain reinsurance, our reinsurers may not pay losses in a timely fashion, or at all, which may cause a substantial loss and increase our costs. As of December 31, 2006, we had a net balance due in our favor from our reinsurers of $215.3 million, consisting of $118.0 million in reinsurance recoverables, $3.2 million in ceding commissions receivable and $94.1 million in prepaid reinsurance premiums. This amount is $4.9 million higher than TICNY’s and TNIC’s statutory capital and surplus at that date. Since October 1, 2003, we have sought to manage our exposure to our reinsurers by placing our quota share reinsurance on a “funds withheld” basis and requiring any non-admitted reinsurers to collateralize their share of unearned premium and loss reserves. However, we have substantial recoverables from our pre-October 1, 2003 reinsurance arrangements that are uncollateralized, in that they are not supported by letters of credit, trust accounts, “funds withheld” arrangements or similar mechanisms intended to protect us against a reinsurer’s inability or unwillingness to pay. Our net exposure to our reinsurers totaled $40.7 million as of December 31, 2006. Because we remain primarily liable to our policyholders for the payment of their claims, in the event that one of our reinsurers under an uncollateralized treaty became insolvent or refused to reimburse us for losses paid, or delayed in reimbursing us for losses paid, our cash flow and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2006, our largest balance due from any one reinsurer was approximately $115.2 million, which was due from CastlePoint Reinsurance. However, because our reinsurance with CastlePoint Reinsurance is collateralized by a Regulation 114 compliant trust account, our net exposure to CastlePoint Reinsurance on that date was $0. Our largest net balance due from any one reinsurer that was not collateralized was approximately $17.6 million, which was due from Munich Reinsurance America Inc. (formerly American Re-Insurance Company), which is rated “A” by A.M. Best. Our insurance company subsidiaries are rated “A-” (Excellent) by A.M. Best, and a decline in this rating or the ratings assigned by other rating agencies could affect our standing among brokers, agents and insureds and cause our sales and earnings to decrease. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. A.M. Best maintains a letter scale rating system ranging from “A++” (Superior) to “F” (In Liquidation). TICNY was upgraded to “A-” (Excellent) by A.M. Best, which is the 4th highest of 15 rating levels. In 2005, TNIC received an “A-” (Excellent) rating from A.M. Best. These ratings are subject to, among other things, A.M. Best’s evaluation of our capitalization and performance on an ongoing basis including our management of terrorism and natural catastrophe risks, loss reserves and expenses, and there is no guarantee that TICNY and TNIC will maintain these ratings. In April 2003, in connection with the issuance of subordinated debentures underlying trust preferred securities, TICNY also received an insurer financial strength rating from Standard & Poor’s Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. (“Standard & Poor’s”). The most recent rating from Standard & Poor’s is “BBB-” with a stable outlook. Our ratings are subject to periodic review by, and may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of A.M. Best or Standard & Poor’s. A decline in a company’s ratings indicating a reduced financial strength or other adverse financial developments can cause concern about the viability of the downgraded insurer among its agents, brokers and policyholders, resulting in a movement of business away from the downgraded carrier to other stronger or more highly rated carriers. Because many of our agents and brokers (whom we refer to as “producers”) and policyholders purchase our policies on the basis of our current ratings, the loss or reduction of any of our ratings will adversely impact our ability to retain or expand our policyholder base. The objective of the rating agencies’ rating systems is to provide an opinion of an insurer’s financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to its policyholders. Our ratings 46 reflect the rating agencies’ opinion of our financial strength and are not evaluations directed to investors in our common stock, nor are they recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common stock. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations. Various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, which have been negotiated to limit our risks, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend. At the present time we employ a variety of endorsements to our policies that limit exposure to known risks, including but not limited to exclusions relating to coverage for lead paint poisoning, asbestos and most claims for bodily injury or property damage resulting from the release of pollutants. In addition, the policies we issue contain conditions requiring the prompt reporting of claims to us and our right to decline coverage in the event of a violation of that condition. Our policies also include limitations restricting the period in which a policyholder may bring a breach of contract or other claim against the company, which in many cases is shorter than the statutory limitations for such claims in the states in which we write business. While these exclusions and limitations reduce the loss exposure to us and help eliminate known exposures to certain risks, it is possible that a court or regulatory authority could nullify or void an exclusion or legislation could be enacted modifying or barring the use of such endorsements and limitations in a way that would adversely effect our loss experience, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We may face substantial exposure to losses from terrorism and we are currently required by law to provide coverage against such losses. Our location and concentration of business written in New York City and adjacent areas by our insurance company subsidiaries may expose us to losses from terrorism. U.S. insurers are required by state and Federal law to offer coverage for terrorism in certain commercial lines. Terrorism Reinsurance. In 2002, in response to the tightening of supply in certain insurance and reinsurance markets resulting from, among other things, the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the Terrorism Insurance Act (“TRIA”) was enacted. TRIA is designed to ensure the availability of insurance coverage for foreign terrorist acts in the United States of America. This law established a federal assistance program through the end of 2005 to help the commercial property and casualty insurance industry cover claims related to future terrorism-related losses and requires such companies to offer coverage for certain acts of terrorism. As a result, we are prohibited from adding certain terrorism exclusions to the policies written by TICNY and TNIC. Although TICNY and TNIC are protected by federally funded terrorism reinsurance as provided for by TRIA, there is a substantial deductible that must be met, the payment of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. On December 17, 2005, Congress passed a two-year extension of TRIA though December 31, 2007 with the passage of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act (“TRIEA”). Under the terms of TRIEA, the minimum size of the triggering event increased from $5 million to $50 million for 2006 and to $100 million in 2007 and Tower’s deductible increased to 17.5% of direct earned premium in 2006 and will increase to 20% in 2007. If the program trigger is reached, the federal government will reimburse commercial insurers for 85% of their insured loses from the certified act of terrorism in excess of their statutory deductible. Under TRIEA, federal assistance for insured terrorism losses has been reduced as compared to the assistance previously available under TRIA. As a consequence of these changes, potential losses from a terrorist attack could be substantially larger than previously expected. The failure to extend TRIEA beyond December 31, 2007 or the extension of TRIEA on terms less favorable to insurers could also adversely affect our ability to obtain reinsurance on favorable terms, including pricing, and may affect our underwriting strategy, rating, and other elements of our operation. 47 The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. Since we depend on a core of selected producers for a large portion of our revenues, loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us. Our products are marketed by independent producers. Other insurance companies compete with us for the services and allegiance of these producers. These producers may choose to direct business to our competitors, or may direct less desirable risks to us., Approximately 80% of the 2006 gross premiums written, including premiums produced by TRM on behalf of its issuing companies, were produced by our top 142 producers, representing 17% of our active agents and brokers. These producers have annual written premiums of $500,000 or more. As we build a broader territorial base, the number of producers with significant premium volumes with Tower is increasing. In 2005, producers with premium volumes of $500,000 or more numbered 121 and contributed 77% of gross premiums written. Our largest producers in 2006 were Morstan General Agency, Northeast Agencies and Davis Agency Inc. As of December 31, 2006, these producers accounted for 11%, 7% and 5%, respectively, of the total of our gross premiums written. No other producer was responsible for more than 5% of our gross premiums written. A significant decrease in business from, or the entire loss of, our largest producer or several of our other large producers would cause us to lose premium and require us to seek alternative producers or to increase submissions from existing producers. In the event we are unable to find replacement producers or increase business produced by our existing producers, our premium revenues would decrease and our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our reliance on producers subjects us to their credit risk. With respect to the premiums produced by TRM for its issuing companies and a limited amount of premium volume written by TICNY and TNIC, producers collect premium from the policyholders and forward them to TRM, TICNY and TNIC. In certain jurisdictions, including New York and New Jersey, when the insured pays premiums for these policies to producers for payment over to TRM, TICNY and TNIC, the premiums might be considered to have been paid under applicable insurance laws and regulations and the insured will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums from the producer. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with producers. Although producers’ failures to remit premiums to us have not caused a material adverse impact on us to date, there have been instances where producers collected premium but did not remit it to us and we were nonetheless required under applicable law to provide the coverage set forth in the policy despite the absence of premium. Because the possibility of these events is dependent in large part upon the financial condition and internal operations of our producers, which in most cases are not public information, we are not able to quantify the exposure presented by this risk. If we are unable to collect premiums from our producers in the future, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 48 We operate in a highly competitive environment. If we are unsuccessful in competing against larger or more well-established rivals, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive and has historically been characterized by periods of significant pricing competition alternating with periods of greater pricing discipline, during which competition focuses on other factors. Beginning in 2000, the market environment was increasingly favorable as rates increased significantly. During the latter part of 2004 and throughout 2005, increased competition in the marketplace became evident and, as a result, average rate increases have become moderate. The catastrophe losses of 2004 and 2005 produced increased pricing and reduced capacity for insurance of catastrophe-exposed property. However, a softening of the non-catastrophe-exposed market in 2006 has led to more aggressive pricing in specific segments of the commercial lines business, particularly in those lines of business and accounts with larger annual premiums. A.M. Best estimates that the industry wide change in net premiums written in the property casualty industry was 2.6% in 2006 compared to 0.2% in 2005 and is estimated to be 0.1% in 2007. The change in industry policyholders’ surplus as estimated by A.M. Best was 5% in 2006 compared to 9.1% in 2005 and is estimated to be 7.4% in 2007. In addition, in 2005, A.M. Best estimated new capital or capacity of $20 billion was raised by the property casualty insurance and reinsurance industry. This additional underwriting capacity may result in increased competition from other insurers seeking to expand the types or amount of business they write or cause a shift in focus by some insurers to maintaining market share at the expense of underwriting discipline. We attempt to compete based primarily on products offered, service, experience, the strength of our client relationships, reputation, speed of claims payment, perceived financial strength, ratings, scope of business, commissions paid and policy and contract terms and conditions. There are no assurances that in the future we will be able to retain or attract customers at prices which we consider to be adequate. We compete with major U.S. insurers and certain underwriting syndicates, including large national companies such as St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc., Allstate Insurance Company and State Farm Fire and Casualty Company; regional insurers such as OneBeacon Insurance Company, Selective Insurance Company, Harleysville Insurance Company, Hanover Insurance and Peerless Insurance Company and smaller, more local competitors such as Greater New York Mutual, Magna Carta Companies and Utica First Insurance Company. Many of these companies have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. Many of these competitors also have more experience, better ratings and more market recognition than we do. We seek to distinguish ourselves from our competitors by providing a broad product line offering and targeting those market segments that provide us with the best opportunity to earn an underwriting profit. We also compete with other companies by quickly and opportunistically delivering products that respond to our producers’ needs. In addition to competition in the operation of our business, we face competition from a variety of sources in attracting and retaining qualified employees. We also face competition because of entities that self-insure, primarily in the commercial insurance market. From time to time, established and potential customers may examine the benefits and risks of self-insurance and other alternatives to traditional insurance. We may experience difficulty in expanding our business, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition to our recent acquisition of Preserver, we plan to continue to expand our licensing or acquire other insurance companies with multi-state property and casualty licensing in order to expand our product and service offerings geographically. We also intend to continue to acquire books of business that fit our underwriting competencies from competitors, managing agents and other producers and to acquire other insurance companies. This expansion strategy may present special risks: 49 · We have achieved our prior success by applying a disciplined approach to underwriting and pricing in select markets that are not well served by our competitors. We may not be able to successfully implement our underwriting, pricing and product strategies in companies or books of business we acquire or over a larger operating region; · We may not be successful in obtaining the required regulatory approvals to offer additional insurance products or expand into additional states; · We have limited acquisition experience and may not be able to efficiently combine an acquired company or block of business with our present financial, operational and management information systems; and · An acquisition could dilute the book value and earnings per share of our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in expanding our business or that any new business will be profitable. If we are unable to expand our business or to manage our expansion effectively, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more principal employees or by an inability to attract and retain staff. Our success will depend in substantial part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers, experienced underwriting talent and other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about our business. We rely substantially upon the services of our executive management team. If we were to lose the services of members of our key management team, our business could be adversely affected. We believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining key personnel throughout our history. We have employment agreements with Michael H. Lee, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, and four other members of our senior management team. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to our employees except for Michael H. Lee. Our business relationship with CastlePoint and its affiliates may present, and make us vulnerable to, difficult conflicts of interest, related party transactions, business opportunity issues and legal challenges. As noted elsewhere, we have invested in CastlePoint, which we organized and sponsored with an initial investment of $15.0 million on February 6, 2006 and in which we currently own an 8.6% interest (together with warrants to acquire an additional 3.7% interest). In addition, Michael H. Lee, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, holds the same positions at CastlePoint and, as such, will not serve our company on a full-time basis. Furthermore, some former members of our executive management have resigned their positions with us and become executive managers of CastlePoint. Conflicts of interest could arise with respect to business opportunities that could be advantageous to CastlePoint or its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and us or any of our subsidiaries, on the other hand. Because Mr. Lee holds leadership positions at both Tower and CastlePoint, potential conflicts of interest may arise. While we believe that our interests and CastlePoint do not currently conflict, they may diverge as CastlePoint develops additional business. Mr. Lee’s service as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of both CastlePoint and Tower could also raise a potential challenge under anti-trust laws. Section 8 of the Clayton Antitrust Act, or the Clayton Act, prohibits a person from serving as a director or officer in any two competing corporations under certain circumstances. If CastlePoint and Tower are in the future deemed to be competitors within the meaning of the Clayton Act, certain thresholds relating to direct competition between Tower and CastlePoint are met, and the Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission challenge the arrangement, Mr. Lee may be required to resign his positions with one of the companies, and/or fines or other penalties could be assessed against Mr. Lee and us. To alleviate any potential for direct competition with CastlePoint, arrangements between us provide for a division of responsibilities. 50 However, it is possible that the potential for direct competition with respect to certain classes of business may exist with respect to the business we and CastlePoint may pursue. Our investment performance may suffer as a result of adverse capital market developments or other factors, which may affect our financial results and ability to conduct business. We invest the premium we receive from policyholders until it is needed to pay policyholder claims or other expenses. At December 31, 2006, our invested assets consisted of $414.6 million in fixed maturity securities, $49.5 million in equity securities at fair value. Additionally, we held $100.6 million in cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2006, we earned $23.0 million of net investment income representing 7.7% of our total revenues and 40.8% of our pre-tax income. Our funds are invested by a professional investment advisory management firm under the direction of our management team in accordance with detailed investment guidelines set by us. Although our investment policies stress diversification of risks, conservation of principal and liquidity, our investments are subject to a variety of investment risks, including risks relating to general economic conditions, market volatility, interest rate fluctuations, liquidity risk and credit and default risk. (Interest rate risk is discussed below under the heading, “—We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes.”) In particular, the volatility of our claims may force us to liquidate securities, which may cause us to incur capital losses. If we do not structure our investment portfolio so that it is appropriately matched with our insurance and reinsurance liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to cover such liabilities. Investment losses could significantly decrease our asset base and statutory surplus, thereby affecting our ability to conduct business. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our operating results are affected, in part, by the performance of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. A significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Generally, bond prices decrease as interest rates rise. Changes in interest rates could also have an adverse effect on our investment income and results of operations. For example, if interest rates decline, investment of new premiums received and funds reinvested will earn less than expected. In addition, our investment portfolio includes mortgage-backed securities. As of December 31, 2006, mortgage-backed securities constituted approximately 27.8% of our invested assets. As with other fixed income investments, the fair market value of these securities fluctuates depending on market and other general economic conditions and the interest rate environment. Changes in interest rates can expose us to prepayment risks on these investments. When interest rates fall, mortgage-backed securities are prepaid more quickly than expected and the holder must reinvest the proceeds at lower interest rates. Our mortgage-backed securities currently consist of securities with features that reduce the risk of prepayment, but there is no guarantee that we will not invest in other mortgage-backed securities that lack this protection. In periods of increasing interest rates, mortgage-backed securities are prepaid more slowly, which may require us to receive interest payments that are below the interest rates then prevailing for longer than expected. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. To the extent that our present capital is insufficient to meet future operating requirements and/or cover losses, we may 51 need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth. Based on our current operating plan, we believe our current capital together with the proceeds of this offering, our proposed concurrent issuance of trust preferred securities and our anticipated retained earnings, will support our operations without the need to raise additional capital. However, we cannot provide any assurance in that regard, since many factors will affect our capital needs and their amount and timing, including our growth and profitability, our claims experience, and the availability of reinsurance, as well as possible acquisition opportunities, market disruptions and other unforeseeable developments. If we had to raise additional capital, equity or debt financing may not be available at all or may be available only on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our stockholders could result, and in any case such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of the shares offered hereby. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The regulatory system under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our business. TICNY and TNIC are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision in their respective states of domicile. The purpose of the insurance laws and regulations are to protect insureds, not our stockholders. These regulations are generally administered by the insurance departments in which the individual insurance companies are domiciled and relate to, among other things: · standards of solvency, including risk based capital measurements; · restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; · required methods of accounting; · rate and form regulation pertaining to certain of our insurance businesses; · potential assessments for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies; and · transactions with affiliates. Significant changes in these laws and regulations could make it more expensive to conduct our business. The New York Insurance Department for TICNY and the Massachusetts Division of Insurance for TNIC also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of their domiciled insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company issues and other matters. These regulatory requirements may adversely affect or inhibit our ability to achieve some or all of our business objectives. TICNY and TNIC may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or accreditations in new states we intend to enter, or may be able to do so only at significant cost. In addition, we may not be able to comply fully with or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies or holding companies. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business or engage in certain activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could subject us to fines and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations to which our operating subsidiaries are subject could adversely affect our ability to operate and expand our business or could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Because we have been deemed an affiliate of CastlePoint by the New York Insurance Department, any material transaction or agreement between our insurance subsidiaries and CastlePoint may be subject to regulatory review and resulting modification to address any concerns that regulators may raise. If we do 52 not obtain the approvals of these regulatory authorities, or if our agreements are subject to substantial modifications, we may not be able to fully implement our business strategy, which would have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, the U.S. insurance regulatory framework has come under increased Federal scrutiny, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Moreover, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”), which is an association of the insurance commissioners of all 50 states and the District of Columbia, and state insurance regulators regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations, often focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws. Changes in these laws and regulations or the interpretation of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The highly publicized investigations of the insurance industry by the New York State Attorney General and other regulators and government officials have led to, and may continue to lead to, additional legislative and regulatory requirements for the insurance industry and may increase the costs of doing business. The activities of TRM are subject to licensing requirements and regulation under the laws of New York, New Jersey and other states where it does business. TRM’s business depends on the validity of, and continued good standing under, the licenses and approvals pursuant to which it operates, as well as compliance with pertinent regulations. Licensing laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In all jurisdictions, the applicable licensing laws and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. Generally such authorities are vested with relatively broad and general discretion as to the granting, renewing and revoking of licenses and approvals. Licenses may be denied or revoked for various reasons, including the violation of such regulations, conviction of crimes and the like. Possible sanctions which may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business for specified periods of time, revocation of licenses, censures, redress to clients and fines. In some instances, TRM follows practices based on its or its counsel’s interpretations of laws and regulations, or those generally followed by the industry, which may prove to be different from those of regulatory authorities. If the assessments we are required to pay are increased drastically our results of operations and financial condition will suffer. TICNY and TNIC are subject to assessments in New York for various purposes, including the provision of funds necessary to fund the operations of the New York Insurance Department and the New York Security Fund, which pays covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. In 2006, the assessment for the New York Insurance Department was $1,470,000 and the New York Security Fund assessment was $2,042,000. These assessments are generally set based on an insurer’s percentage of the total premiums written in New York State within a particular line of business. The Company is permitted to assess premium surcharges on workers’ compensation policies that are based on statutorily enacted rates. However, assessments by the various workers’ compensation funds have recently exceeded the permitted surcharges resulting in a (reduction) additional expenses of $(127,000), $0 and $1,143,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As of December 31, 2006 the liability for the various workers’ compensation funds, which includes amounts assessed on workers’ compensation policies, was $4,463,000. This amount is expected to be paid over an eighteen month period ending June 30, 2008. As our company grows, our share of any assessments may increase. However, we cannot predict with certainty the amount of future assessments because they depend on factors outside our control, such as insolvencies of other insurance companies. Significant assessments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 53 Our ability to meet ongoing cash requirements and pay dividends may be limited by our holding company structure and regulatory constraints. Tower is a holding company and, as such, has no direct operations of its own. Tower does not expect to have any significant operations or assets other than its ownership of the shares of its operating subsidiaries. Dividends and other permitted payments from our operating subsidiaries are expected to be our primary source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including any future debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay dividends, if any, to our stockholders. TICNY is subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting its ability to declare and pay dividends. As of December 31, 2006, the maximum amount of distributions that TICNY could pay to Tower without approval of the New York Insurance Department was $10.5 million. The inability of TICNY to pay dividends and other permitted payments in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level would have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2006, the maximum amount of distributions that TNIC could pay to its parent without approval of the Massachusetts Division of Insurance was approximately $89,000. Accordingly, if you require dividend income you should carefully consider these risks before making an investment in our company. Although we have paid cash dividends in the past, we may not pay cash dividends in the future. We have a history of paying dividends to our stockholders when sufficient cash is available, and we currently intend to pay dividends in each quarter of 2007. However, future cash dividends will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and other factors, including the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us, which ability is restricted in the manner previously discussed in this section. Also, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends even if the necessary financial conditions are met and if sufficient cash is available for distribution. Risks Related to our Acquisition of Preserver Group, Inc. We must obtain several governmental consents to complete the acquisition, which, if delayed, not granted or granted with unacceptable conditions may jeopardize or delay the acquisition, result in additional expense or reduce the anticipated benefits of the transaction. We must obtain specified approvals and consents in a timely manner from state governmental authorities prior to the completion of the acquisition of Preserver. State insurance laws generally require that, prior to the acquisition of an insurance company, the acquiring party must obtain approval from the insurance commissioner of the insurance company’s state of domicile or, in certain cases, the state where such insurance company is commercially domiciled. If we do not receive these approvals on terms that satisfy the purchase agreement, then we will not be obligated to complete the acquisition. The governmental authorities from which we seek approvals have broad discretion in administering relevant laws and regulations. As a condition to the approval of the acquisition, governmental authorities may impose requirements, limitations or costs that could negatively affect the way the combined companies conduct business. We are not obligated to complete the acquisition if a governmental authority, in connection with the grant of its approval or consent, imposes a condition or restriction which could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, assets, liabilities, financial condition or results of operations of us or Preserver. If we agree to any material conditions or restrictions in order to obtain any approvals required to complete the acquisition, these conditions or restrictions could adversely affect our ability to integrate the business of Tower and Preserver or reduce the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. 54 Whether or not the acquisition is completed, the announcement and pendency of the acquisition could cause disruptions in the businesses of Tower and Preserver, which could have an adverse effect on their business and financial results Whether or not the acquisition is completed, the announcement and pendency of the acquisition could cause disruptions in the businesses of Tower and Preserver. Specifically: · current and prospective employees and agents may experience uncertainty about their future roles with Tower, which might adversely affect Tower’s ability to retain key managers and other employees and agents; and · the attention of management of each of Tower and Preserver may be directed toward the completion of the acquisition and not their ongoing businesses. The acquisition is subject to certain closing conditions that, if not satisfied or waived, will result in the acquisition not being completed, which may cause the market price of Tower common stock to decline. The acquisition is subject to customary conditions to closing. If any condition to the acquisition is not satisfied or waived, the acquisition will not be completed. In addition, we and the current owners of Preserver may terminate the purchase agreement under certain circumstances. If we and Preserver do not complete the acquisition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate to the extent that the current market prices of those shares reflect a market assumption that the acquisition will be completed. Further, whether or not the acquisition is completed, we will also be obligated to pay certain financing, legal and accounting fees and related expenses in connection with the acquisition, which could negatively impact results of operations when incurred. In addition, we would not realize any of the expected benefits of having completed the acquisition. If the acquisition is not completed, we cannot assure our stockholders that additional risks will not materialize or not materially adversely affect its business, financial results, financial condition and stock prices. We may experience difficulties in integrating our business with the business of Preserver, which could cause us to fail to realize many of the anticipated potential benefits of the acquisition. We have entered into the purchase agreement with Preserver because we believe that the acquisition will be beneficial to us and our stockholders. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition will depend in part upon whether we are able to integrate our businesses in an efficient and effective manner. We may not be able to accomplish this integration process smoothly or successfully. The necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations and addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. The integration of certain operations following the merger may require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract management’s attention from the day-to-day business of the combined company. Employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the integration process may also disrupt our business. Any inability of our management to integrate successfully the operations of Tower and Preserver could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. An inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, as well as any delays encountered in the transition process, could have an adverse effect upon our revenues, level of expenses and operating results, which may affect the value of our common stock. After the acquisition, we may seek to combine certain operations and functions using common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resource practices, including training, professional development and benefit programs. We may be unsuccessful or delayed in implementing the integration of these systems and processes. 55 Risks Related to Our Industry The threat of terrorism and military and other actions may adversely affect our investment portfolio and may result in decreases in our net income, revenue and assets under management. The threat of terrorism, both within the United States and abroad, and military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and declines in the equity markets in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, as well as loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets and economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures. We cannot predict at this time whether and the extent to which industry sectors in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of potential decreased commercial and economic activity, or how any such decrease might impact the ability of companies within the affected industry sectors to pay interest or principal on their securities, or how the value of any underlying collateral might be affected. We can offer no assurances that terrorist attacks or the threat of future terrorist events in the United States and abroad or military actions by the United States will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our results of operations and revenues may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including cyclical changes in the insurance industry, which may cause the price of our securities to be volatile. The results of operations of companies in the property and casualty insurance industry historically have been. subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Our profitability can be affected significantly by: · competition; · rising levels of loss costs that we cannot anticipate at the time we price our products; · volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made, weather-related and other natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks; · changes in the level of reinsurance capacity and capital capacity; · changes in the amount of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves resulting from new types of claims and new or changing judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers’ liabilities; and · fluctuations in equity markets and interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested assets and may impact the ultimate payout of losses. The supply of insurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance and reinsurance industry. As a result, the insurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity alternating with periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. Premium levels for many products have increased in recent years and significant amounts of new capital have flowed into the insurance and reinsurance sectors. These factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms and fewer submissions for our underwriting services. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of the insurance business significantly, and we expect to experience the effects of such cyclicality. 56 This cyclicality could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and revenues, which may cause the price of our securities to be volatile. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has no unresolved staff comment as of December 31, 2006. 