Risk Factors For purposes of this section, the term “stockholders” means the holders of shares of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock and preferred stock and the term “unitholders” means the holders of BioMed Realty, L.P.’s OP units and preferred units. Risks Related to Our Properties, Our Business and Our Growth Strategy Because we lease our properties to a limited number of tenants, and to the extent we depend on a limited number of tenants in the future, the inability of any single tenant to make its lease payments could adversely affect our business and our ability to make distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. As of December 31, 2010, we had 160 tenants in 85 total properties. Two of our tenants, Human Genome Sciences and Vertex Pharmaceuticals, represented 12.1% and 8.8%, respectively, of our annualized base rent as of December 31, 2010, and 9.9% and 7.3%, respectively, of our total leased rentable square footage. There can be no assurance that any tenant will be able to make timely rental payments or avoid defaulting under its lease. If a tenant defaults, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment. Our revenue and cash flow, and consequently our ability to make distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders and BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders, could be materially adversely affected if any of our significant tenants were to become bankrupt or insolvent, suffer a downturn in their business, curtail or suspend their operations, or fail to renew their leases at all or renew on terms less favorable to us than their current terms. Life science entities, which comprise the vast majority of our tenant base, face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty that may adversely affect their ability to pay us rent and consequently adversely affect our business. Life science entities comprise the vast majority of our tenant base and, as a result, adverse conditions affecting the life science industry will more adversely affect our business, and thus our ability to make distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders and BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders, than if our business strategy included a more diverse tenant base. Life science industry tenants, particularly those involved in developing and marketing drugs and drug delivery technologies, fail from time to time as a result of various factors. Many of these factors are particular to the life science industry. For example: • Our tenants require significant outlays of funds for the research and development and clinical testing of their products and technologies and many of them have a history of recurring losses. The current economic environment has significantly impacted the ability of these companies to access the capital markets, including both equity financing through public offerings and debt financing. The pace of venture capital funding has also declined from previous levels, further restricting access to capital for these companies. In addition, state and federal government budgets have been negatively impacted by the current economic environment and, as a result certain programs, including grants related to biotechnology research and development, may be at risk of being eliminated or cut back significantly. If private investors, the government, public markets or other sources of funding are unavailable to support such development, a tenant’s business may fail. • The research and development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of some of our tenants’ products require federal, state and foreign regulatory approvals. The approval process is typically long, expensive and uncertain. Even if our tenants have sufficient funds to seek approvals, one or all of their products may fail to obtain the required regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all. Furthermore, our tenants may only have a small number of products under development. If one product fails to receive the required approvals at any stage of development, it could significantly adversely affect our tenant’s entire business and its ability to pay rent. 11 Table of Contents • Our tenants may be unable to adequately protect their intellectual property under patent, copyright or trade secret laws. Failure to do so could jeopardize their ability to profit from their efforts and to protect their products from competition. • Collaborative relationships with other life science entities may be crucial to the development, manufacturing, distribution or marketing of our tenants’ products. If these other entities fail to fulfill their obligations under these collaborative arrangements, our tenants’ businesses will suffer. • Legislation to reform the U.S. healthcare system may include government intervention in product pricing and other changes that adversely affect reimbursement for our tenants’ marketable products. In addition, sales of many of our tenants’ marketable products are dependent, in large part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Changes in government regulations, price controls or third-party payors’ reimbursement policies may reduce reimbursement for our tenants’ marketable products and adversely impact our tenants’ businesses. We cannot assure you that our tenants in the life science industry will be successful in their businesses. If our tenants’ businesses are adversely affected, they may default on their obligations to third parties, including their obligations to pay rent or pay for tenant improvements relating to space they lease, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The bankruptcy of a tenant may adversely affect the income produced by and the value of our properties. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a tenant may adversely affect the income produced by our properties. If any tenant becomes a debtor in a case under the Bankruptcy Code, we cannot evict the tenant solely because of the bankruptcy. The bankruptcy court also might authorize the tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us, which would generally result in any unpaid, pre-bankruptcy rent being treated as an unsecured claim. An unsecured claim may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. In addition, our claim against the tenant for unpaid, future rent would be subject to a statutory cap equal to the greater of (1) one year of rent or (2) 15% of the remaining rent on the lease (not to exceed three years of rent). This cap might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. Additionally, a bankruptcy court may require us to turn over to the estate all or a portion of any deposits, amounts in escrow, or prepaid rents. Our claim for unpaid, pre-bankruptcy rent, our lease termination damages and claims relating to damages for which we hold deposits or other amounts that we were forced to repay would likely not be paid in full. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we incurred $0 and approximately $534,000, respectively, of rental operations expense related to early lease terminations and tenant receivables that were deemed to be uncollectible due to tenants that filed for bankruptcy at the time of lease termination or shortly thereafter. We may fail to obtain the financial results expected from the properties we acquire, develop or renovate, making them unprofitable or less profitable than we had expected, or operate new properties successfully, which could harm our financial condition and ability to make distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. We continue to evaluate the market for available properties and may acquire office, laboratory and other properties when opportunities exist. We also may develop or substantially renovate office and other properties. Acquisition, development and renovation activities are subject to significant risks, including: • we may spend more time or money than we budget to improve or renovate acquired properties or to develop new properties, • we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new properties, particularly if we acquire portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, • market and economic conditions may result in higher than expected vacancy rates and lower than expected rental rates, • we may face higher operating costs than we anticipated for properties that we acquire, develop or renovate, including insurance premiums, utilities, real estate taxes and costs of complying with changes in governmental regulations, • we may face higher requirements for capital improvements than we anticipated for properties that we acquire, develop or renovate, particularly in older structures, 12 Table of Contents • we may fail to retain tenants that have pre-leased our properties under development if we do not complete the construction of these properties in a timely manner or to the tenants’ specifications, • we have a limited history in conducting ground-up construction activities, • if we develop properties, we may encounter delays or refusals in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, • acquired and developed properties may have defects we do not discover through our inspection processes, including latent defects that may not reveal themselves until many years after we put a property in service, and • we may acquire land, properties or entities owning properties, which are subject to liabilities and for which, in the case of unknown liabilities, we may have limited or no recourse. The realization of any of the above risks could significantly and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our securities, ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and ability to pay distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. Because particular upgrades are required for life science tenants, improvements to our properties involve greater expenditures than traditional office space, which costs may not be covered by the rents our tenants pay. The improvements generally required for our properties’ infrastructure are more costly than for other property types. Typical infrastructural improvements include the following: • reinforced concrete floors, • upgraded roof structures for greater load capacity, • increased floor-to-ceiling clear heights, • heavy-duty HVAC systems, • enhanced environmental control technology, • significantly upgraded electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, and • laboratory benchwork. We cannot assure you that our tenants will pay higher rents on our properties than tenants in traditional office space or that the rents paid will cover the additional costs of upgrading the properties. Because of the unique and specific improvements required for our life science tenants, we may be required to incur substantial renovation costs to make our properties suitable for other life science tenants or other office tenants, which could adversely affect our operating performance. We acquire or develop properties that include laboratory space and other features that we believe are generally desirable for life science industry tenants. However, different life science industry tenants may require different features in their properties, depending on each tenant’s particular focus within the life science industry. If a current tenant is unable to pay rent and vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify the property before we are able to re-lease the space to another life science industry tenant. This could hurt our operating performance and the value of your investment. Also, if the property needs to be renovated to accommodate multiple tenants, we may incur substantial expenditures before we are able to re-lease the space. Additionally, our properties may not be suitable for lease to traditional office tenants without significant expenditures or renovations. Accordingly, any downturn in the life science industry may have a substantial negative impact on our properties’ values. 13 Table of Contents Our success depends on key personnel with extensive experience dealing with the real estate needs of life science tenants, and the loss of these key personnel could threaten our ability to operate our business successfully. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued services of our management team. In particular, we depend on the efforts of Alan D. Gold, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, R. Kent Griffin, Jr., our President and Chief Operating Officer, Greg N. Lubushkin, our Chief Financial Officer, Gary A. Kreitzer, our Executive Vice President and General Counsel, and Matthew G. McDevitt, our Executive Vice President, Real Estate. Among the reasons that Messrs. Gold, Griffin, Lubushkin, Kreitzer and McDevitt are important to our success are that they have extensive real estate and finance experience, and strong reputations within the life science industry. Our management team has developed informal relationships through past business dealings with numerous members of the scientific community, life science investors, current and prospective life science industry tenants, and real estate brokers. We expect that their reputations will continue to attract business and investment opportunities before the active marketing of properties and will assist us in negotiations with lenders, existing and potential tenants, and industry personnel. If we lost their services, our relationships with such lenders, existing and prospective tenants, and industry personnel could suffer. We have entered into employment agreements with each of Messrs. Gold, Griffin, Kreitzer and McDevitt, but we cannot guarantee that they will not terminate their employment prior to the end of the term. We do not have an employment agreement with Mr. Lubushkin. We may not be successful in acquiring and integrating properties that meet our investment criteria, which may impede our growth. In addition to the 13 properties we acquired in connection with our initial public offering in August 2004, as of December 31, 2010, we had acquired or had acquired an interest in an additional 72 properties (net of property dispositions). We continue to evaluate the market of available properties and may acquire properties when strategic opportunities exist. Changing market conditions, including competition from others, may diminish our opportunities for acquiring a desired property on favorable terms or at all. Even if we enter into agreements for the acquisition of properties, these agreements are subject to customary conditions to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations to our satisfaction. We also may be unable to obtain financing on favorable terms (or at all), including continued access to our unsecured line of credit, which may be necessary or desirable to fund property acquisitions. We may not be able to quickly and efficiently integrate any properties that we acquire into our organization and manage and lease the new properties in a way that allows us to realize the financial returns that we expect. In addition, we may incur unanticipated costs to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties. Furthermore, our efforts to integrate new property acquisitions may divert management’s attention away from or cause disruptions to the operations at our existing properties. If we fail to successfully acquire new properties or integrate them into our portfolio, or if newly acquired properties fail to perform as we expect, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions could suffer. The geographic concentration of our properties in Boston, Maryland and California makes our business particularly vulnerable to adverse conditions affecting these markets. Eighteen of our properties are located in the Boston area. As of December 31, 2010, these properties represented 33.6% of our annualized base rent and 23.6% of our total leased square footage. Eight of our properties are located in Maryland. As of December 31, 2010, these properties represented 15.4% of our annualized base rent and 16.1% of our total leased square footage. In addition, 37 of our properties are located in California, with 24 in San Diego and 13 in San Francisco. As of December 31, 2010, these properties represented 31.3% of our annualized base rent and 35.4% of our total leased square footage. Because of this concentration in three geographic regions, we are particularly vulnerable to adverse conditions affecting Boston, Maryland and California, including general economic conditions, increased competition, a downturn in the local life science industry, real estate conditions, terrorist attacks, earthquakes and wildfires and other natural disasters occurring in these regions. In addition, we cannot assure you that these markets will continue to grow or remain favorable to the life science industry. The performance of the life science industry and the economy in general in these geographic markets may affect occupancy, market rental rates and expenses, and thus may affect our performance and the value of our properties. We are also subject to greater risk of loss from earthquakes or wildfires because of our properties’ concentration in California. The close proximity of our 13 properties in San Francisco to a fault line makes them more vulnerable to earthquakes than properties in many other parts of the country. Likewise, the wildfires occurring in the San Diego area, most recently in 2003 and in 2007, may make the 24 properties we own in the San Diego area more vulnerable to fire damage or destruction than properties in many other parts of the country. 14 Table of Contents Our tax indemnification and debt maintenance obligations require us to make payments if we sell certain properties or repay certain debt, which could limit our operating flexibility. In our formation transactions, certain of our executive officers, Messrs. Gold, and Kreitzer, and certain other individuals contributed properties to our operating partnership. If we were to dispose of these contributed assets in a taxable transaction, Messrs. Gold, and Kreitzer and the other contributors of those assets would suffer adverse tax consequences. In connection with these contribution transactions, we agreed to indemnify those contributors against such adverse tax consequences for a period of ten years. This indemnification will help those contributors to preserve their tax positions after their contributions. The tax indemnification provisions were not negotiated in an arm’s length transaction but were determined by our management team. We have also agreed to use reasonable best efforts consistent with our fiduciary duties to maintain at least $8.0 million of debt, some of which must be property specific, that the contributors can guarantee in order to defer any taxable gain they may incur if our operating partnership repays existing debt. These tax indemnification and debt maintenance obligations may affect the way in which we conduct our business. During the indemnification period, these obligations may impact the timing and circumstances under which we sell the contributed properties or interests in entities holding the properties. For example, these tax indemnification payments could effectively reduce or eliminate any gain we might otherwise realize upon the sale or other disposition of the related properties. Accordingly, even if market conditions might otherwise dictate that it would be desirable to dispose of these properties, the existence of the tax indemnification obligations could result in a decision to retain the properties in our portfolio to avoid having to pay the tax indemnity payments. The existence of the debt maintenance obligations could require us to maintain debt at a higher level than we might otherwise choose. Higher debt levels could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. While we may seek to enter into tax-efficient joint ventures with third-party investors, we currently have no intention of disposing of these properties or interests in entities holding the properties in transactions that would trigger our tax indemnification obligations. The involuntary condemnation of one or more of these properties during the indemnification period could, however, trigger the tax indemnification obligations described above. The tax indemnity would equal the amount of the federal and state income tax liability the contributor would incur with respect to the gain allocated to the contributor. The calculation of the indemnity payment would not be reduced due to the time value of money or the time remaining within the indemnification period. The terms of the contribution agreements also require us to gross up the tax indemnity payment for the amount of income taxes due as a result of the tax indemnity payment. Messrs. Gold, and Kreitzer are potential recipients of these indemnification payments. Because of these potential payments their personal interests may diverge from those of BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Our performance and value are subject to risks associated with the ownership and operation of real estate assets and with factors affecting the real estate industry. Our ability to make expected distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders and BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders depends on our ability to generate revenues in excess of expenses, our scheduled principal payments on debt and our capital expenditure requirements. Events and conditions that are beyond our control may decrease our cash available for distribution and the value of our properties. These events include: • local oversupply, increased competition or reduced demand for life science office and laboratory space, • inability to collect rent from tenants, • vacancies or our inability to rent space on favorable terms, • potential changes in U.S. accounting standards regarding leases making leasing of our properties less attractive to tenants, • increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, utilities and real estate taxes, • the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures, • unanticipated delays in the completion of our development or redevelopment projects, 15 Table of Contents • costs of complying with changes in governmental regulations, including usage, zoning, environmental and tax laws, • the relative illiquidity of real estate investments, • changing submarket demographics, and • civil unrest, acts of war and natural disasters, including earthquakes, floods and fires, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses. In addition, we could experience a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults under existing leases if any of the following occur: • the continuation or worsening of the current economic environment, • future periods of economic slowdown or recession, • rising interest rates, • declining demand for real estate, or • the public perception that any of these events may occur. Any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock or preferred stock, ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and ability to pay distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. Illiquidity of real estate investments may make it difficult for us to sell properties in response to market conditions and could harm our financial condition and ability to make distributions. Equity real estate investments are relatively illiquid and therefore will tend to limit our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changing economic or other conditions. To the extent the properties are not subject to triple-net leases, some significant expenditures such as real estate taxes and maintenance costs are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. Should these events occur, our income and funds available for distribution could be adversely affected. If any of the parking leases or licenses associated with our Cambridge portfolio were to expire, or if we were unable to assign these leases to a buyer, it would be more difficult for us to sell these properties and would adversely affect our ability to retain current tenants or attract new tenants at these properties. In addition, as a REIT, BioMed Realty Trust, Inc. may be subject to a 100% tax on net income derived from the sale of property considered to be held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our business. We may seek to avoid this tax by complying with certain safe harbor rules that generally limit the number of properties we may sell in a given year, the aggregate expenditures made on such properties prior to their disposition, and how long we retain such properties before disposing of them. However, we can provide no assurance that we will always be able to comply with these safe harbors. If compliance is possible, the safe harbor rules may restrict our ability to sell assets in the future and achieve liquidity that may be necessary to fund distributions. Declining real estate valuations and impairment charges could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. We review the carrying value of our properties when circumstances, such as adverse market conditions (including conditions resulting from the ongoing challenges facing the U.S. economy), indicate potential impairment may exist. We base our review on an estimate of the future cash flows (excluding interest charges) expected to result from the real estate investment’s use and eventual disposition. We consider factors such as future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of leasing demand, competition and other factors. If our evaluation indicates that we may be unable to recover the carrying value of a real estate investment, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value of the property. These losses have a direct impact on our net income because recording an impairment loss results in an immediate negative adjustment to net income. The evaluation of anticipated cash flows is highly subjective and is based in part on assumptions regarding future occupancy, rental rates and capital requirements that could differ materially from actual results in future periods. A worsening real estate market may cause us to reevaluate the assumptions used in our impairment analysis. Although we generally plan to own and operate our existing portfolio of properties over the long term, our ability and/or our intent with regard to the operation of our properties may change to dictate an earlier sale date, and an impairment loss may be recognized in connection with such a proposed sale to reduce the property to the lower of the carrying amount or fair-value less costs to sell. Such impairment charges could be material, and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and per share trading price of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock and preferred stock. 16 Table of Contents We may be unable to renew leases, lease vacant space or re-lease space as leases expire, which could adversely affect our business and our ability to make distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. If we cannot renew leases, we may be unable to re-lease our properties at rates equal to or above the current rate. Even if we can renew leases, tenants may be able to negotiate lower rates as a result of market conditions. Market conditions may also hinder our ability to lease vacant space in newly developed or redeveloped properties. In addition, we may enter into or acquire leases for properties that are specially suited to the needs of a particular tenant. Such properties may require renovations, tenant improvements or other concessions in order to lease them to other tenants if the initial leases terminate. Any of these factors could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock or preferred stock, our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and our ability to pay distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. Significant competition may decrease or prevent increases in our properties’ occupancy and rental rates and may reduce our investment opportunities. We face competition from various entities for investment opportunities in properties for life science tenants, including other REITs, such as health care REITs and suburban office property REITs, pension funds, insurance companies, investment funds and companies, partnerships, and developers. Many of these entities have substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be able to accept more risk than we can prudently manage, including risks with respect to the creditworthiness of a tenant or the geographic location of its investments. In the future, competition from these entities may reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us or increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell. Further, as a result of their greater resources, those entities may have more flexibility than we do in their ability to offer rental concessions to attract tenants. This could put pressure on our ability to maintain or raise rents and could adversely affect our ability to attract or retain tenants. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock or preferred stock, ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and ability to pay distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders may be adversely affected. Uninsured and underinsured losses could adversely affect our operating results and our ability to make distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. We carry comprehensive general liability, fire and extended coverage, terrorism and loss of rental income insurance covering all of our properties under a blanket portfolio policy, with the exception of property insurance on our McKellar Court, 9911 Belward Campus Drive and Shady Grove Road locations, which is carried directly by the tenants in accordance with the terms of their respective leases, and builders’ risk policies for any projects under construction. In addition, we carry workers’ compensation coverage for injury to our employees. We also carry environmental remediation insurance for our properties. This insurance, subject to certain exclusions and deductibles, covers the cost to remediate environmental damage caused by unintentional future spills or the historic presence of previously undiscovered hazardous substances, as well as third-party bodily injury and property damage claims related to the release of hazardous substances. We intend to carry similar insurance with respect to future acquisitions as appropriate. A substantial portion of our properties are located in areas subject to earthquake loss, such as San Diego and San Francisco, California and Seattle, Washington. Although we presently carry earthquake insurance on our properties, the amount of earthquake insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to fully cover losses from earthquakes. In addition, we may discontinue earthquake, terrorism or other insurance, or may elect not to procure such insurance, on some or all of our properties in the future if the cost of the premiums for any of these policies exceeds, in our judgment, the value of the coverage discounted for the risk of loss. 17 Table of Contents If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged. The financial condition of one or more of these insurance companies could significantly deteriorate to the point that they may be unable to pay future insurance claims. This risk has increased as a result of the current economic environment and ongoing disruptions in the financial markets. The inability of any of these insurance companies to pay future claims under our policies may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We could incur significant costs related to government regulation and private litigation over environmental matters involving the presence, discharge or threat of discharge of hazardous or toxic substances, which could adversely affect our operations, the value of our properties, and our ability to make distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. Our properties may be subject to environmental liabilities. Under various federal, state and local laws, a current or previous owner, operator or tenant of real estate can face liability for environmental contamination created by the presence, discharge or threat of discharge of hazardous or toxic substances. Liabilities can include the cost to investigate, clean up and monitor the actual or threatened contamination and damages caused by the contamination (or threatened contamination). Environmental laws typically impose such liability on the current owner regardless of: • the owner’s knowledge of the contamination, • the timing of the contamination, • the cause of the contamination, or • the party responsible for the contamination. The liability under such laws may be strict, joint and several, meaning that we may be liable regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of the contaminants, and the government entity or private party may seek recovery of the entire amount from us even if there are other responsible parties. Liabilities associated with environmental conditions may be significant and can sometimes exceed the value of the affected property. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent that property or to borrow using that property as collateral. Some of our properties have had contamination in the past that required cleanup. In most cases, we believe the contamination has been effectively remediated, and that any remaining contamination either does not require remediation or that the costs associated with such remediation will not be material to us. However, we cannot guarantee that additional contamination will not be discovered in the future or any identified contamination will not continue to pose a threat to the environment or that we will not have continued liability in connection with such prior contamination. Our Kendall Square properties, in Cambridge, Massachusetts, are located on the site of a former manufactured gas plant. Various remedial actions were performed on these properties, including soil stabilization to control the spread of oil and hazardous materials in the soil. Another of our properties, Elliott Avenue, has known soil contamination beneath a portion of the building located on the property. Based on environmental consultant reports, management does not believe any remediation of the Elliott Avenue property would be required unless major structural changes were made to the building that resulted in the soil becoming exposed. In addition, the remediation of certain environmental conditions at off-site parcels located in Cambridge, Massachusetts, which was an assumed obligation of our joint venture, PREI II LLC, has been substantially completed as of December 31, 2009. We do not expect these matters to materially adversely affect such properties’ value or the cash flows related to such properties, but we can provide no assurances to that effect. 18 Table of Contents Environmental laws also: • may require the removal or upgrade of underground storage tanks, • regulate the discharge of storm water, wastewater and other pollutants, • regulate air pollutant emissions, • regulate hazardous materials generation, management and disposal, and • regulate workplace health and safety. Life science industry tenants, our primary tenant industry focus, frequently use hazardous materials, chemicals, heavy metals, and biological and radioactive compounds. Our tenants’ controlled use of these materials subjects us and our tenants to laws that govern using, manufacturing, storing, handling and disposing of such materials and certain byproducts of those materials. We are unaware of any of our existing tenants violating applicable laws and regulations, but we and our tenants cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. If our properties become contaminated, or if a party is injured, we could be held liable for any damages that result. Such liability could exceed our resources and any environmental remediation insurance coverage we have, which could adversely affect our operations, the value of our properties, and our ability to make distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. Licensing requirements governing use of radioactive materials by tenants may also restrict the use of or ability to transfer space in buildings we own. We could incur significant costs related to governmental regulation and private litigation over environmental matters involving asbestos-containing materials, which could adversely affect our operations, the value of our properties, and our ability to make distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos-containing materials, or ACMs, and may impose fines and penalties, including orders prohibiting the use of the affected property by us or our tenants, if we fail to comply with these requirements. Failure to comply with these laws, or even the presence of ACMs, may expose us to third-party liability. Some of our properties contain ACMs, and we could be liable for such fines or penalties, as described above in “Item 1. Business — Regulation — Environmental Matters.” Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem, which could adversely affect the value of the affected property and our ability to make distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing because exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property. In addition, the presence of significant mold could expose us to liability to our tenants, their or our employees, and others if property damage or health concerns arise. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and similar laws may require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures. All of our properties are required to comply with the ADA. The ADA requires that all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Although we believe that our properties substantially comply with present requirements of the ADA, we have not conducted an audit of all of such properties to determine compliance. If one or more properties are not in compliance with the ADA, then we would be required to bring the non-compliant properties into compliance. Compliance with the ADA could require removing access barriers. Non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages and/or attorneys’ fees to private litigants, or both. Additional federal, state and local laws also may require us to modify properties or could restrict our ability to renovate properties. Complying with the ADA or other legislation could be very expensive. If we incur substantial costs to comply with such laws, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock or preferred stock, our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and our ability to pay distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders and BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents We may incur significant unexpected costs to comply with fire, safety and other regulations, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make distributions. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and safety requirements, building codes and land use regulations. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject us to governmental fines or private litigant damage awards. In addition, we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether future requirements, including any requirements that may emerge from pending or future climate change legislation, will require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures that will adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the per share trading price of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock or preferred stock, our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and our ability to pay distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure A downgrade in our investment grade credit rating could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. In April 2010, we received investment grade corporate credit ratings from two rating agencies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by either or both of the rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity and a material adverse effect on the market price of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock. Debt obligations expose us to increased risk of property losses and may have adverse consequences on our business operations and our ability to make distributions. We have used and will continue to use debt to finance property acquisitions. Our use of debt may have adverse consequences, including the following: • We may not be able to refinance or extend our existing debt. If we cannot repay, refinance or extend our debt at maturity, in addition to our failure to repay our debt, we may be unable to make distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders at expected levels or at all. • Even if we are able to refinance or extend our existing debt, the terms of any refinancing or extension may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. If the refinancing involves a higher interest rate, it could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to make distributions to unitholders and stockholders. • One or more lenders under our $720.0 million unsecured line of credit could refuse to fund their financing commitment to us or could fail, and we may not be able to replace the financing commitment of any such lenders on favorable terms, or at all. • Required payments of principal and interest may be greater than our cash flow from operations. • We may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms, to make payments on our debt. • If we default on our debt obligations, the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure those loans. Further, if we default under a mortgage loan, we will automatically be in default on any other loan that has cross-default provisions, and we may lose the properties securing all of these loans. • A foreclosure on one of our properties will be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the secured debt. If the outstanding balance of the secured debt exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure without realizing any accompanying cash proceeds to pay the tax (or to make distributions based on REIT taxable income). 20 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, we had outstanding mortgage indebtedness of $652.3 million, excluding $5.6 million of debt premium; $19.8 million of outstanding aggregate principal amount of the Notes due 2026, excluding $278,000 of debt discount; $180.0 million of outstanding aggregate principal amount of the Notes due 2030; $250.0 million of outstanding aggregate principal amount of the Notes due 2020, excluding $2.4 million of debt discount; $392.5 million in outstanding borrowings under our $720.0 million unsecured line of credit; and $40.7 million of borrowings under a secured loan and $40.5 million of borrowings under a secured construction loan representing our proportionate share of indebtedness in our unconsolidated partnerships. We expect to incur additional debt in connection with future acquisitions and development. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of debt that we may incur. As of December 31, 2010, the principal payments due for our consolidated indebtedness were $424.3 million in 2011, $45.2 million in 2012 and $25.7 million in 2013. In addition, our portion of the principal payments due for our unconsolidated indebtedness relating to our PREI joint ventures was $40.5 million in 2011 and $40.7 million in 2012, after taking into account the effect of extensions signed in January 2011. Given current economic conditions including, but not limited to, the credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system, we may be unable to refinance these obligations when due, which may negatively affect our ability to conduct operations. Disruptions in the financial markets and the downturn of the broader U.S. economy could affect our ability to obtain debt financing on reasonable terms, or at all, and have other adverse effects on us. In recent years, the U.S. credit markets have experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for some borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional debt financing or to refinance existing debt maturities on reasonable terms (or at all), which may negatively affect our ability to conduct operations, make acquisitions and fund current and future development and redevelopment projects. In addition, if the financial position of the lenders under our unsecured line of credit worsened they could default on their obligations to make available to us the funds under that facility. A prolonged downturn in the credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. In addition, these factors could make it more difficult for us to sell properties or adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as prospective buyers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. Adverse events in the credit markets could also have an adverse effect on other financial markets in the United States and globally, including the stock markets, which could make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of common stock, preferred stock or other equity securities. Reduced access to liquidity could have a negative impact on the U.S. economy, affecting consumer confidence and spending and negatively impacting the volume and pricing of real estate transactions. If there were a downturn in the national economy, the value of our properties, as well as the income we receive from our properties, could be adversely affected. Disruptions in the financial markets could also have other adverse effects on us or the economy generally, which could adversely affect our ability to service our debt obligations and our ability to pay distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. We have and may continue to engage in hedging transactions, which can limit our gains and increase exposure to losses. We have and may continue to enter into hedging transactions to protect us from the effects of interest rate fluctuations on floating rate debt. Our hedging transactions may include entering into interest rate swap agreements or interest rate cap or floor agreements, or other interest rate exchange contracts. Hedging activities may not have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. No hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. Moreover, interest rate hedging could fail to protect us or adversely affect us because, among other things: • Available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which we seek protection. • The duration or the amount of the hedge may not match the duration or amount of the related liability. • The party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. 21 Table of Contents • The credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction. • The value of derivatives used for hedging may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with accounting rules to reflect changes in fair-value. Downward adjustments, or “mark-to-market losses,” would reduce our stockholders’ equity. Hedging involves risk and typically involves costs, including transaction costs, that may reduce our overall returns on our investments. These costs increase as the period covered by the hedging increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. These costs will also limit the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders. We generally intend to hedge as much of the interest rate risk as management determines is in our best interests given the cost of such hedging transactions. The REIT qualification rules may limit our ability to enter into hedging transactions by requiring us to limit our income from hedges. If we are unable to hedge effectively because of the REIT rules, we will face greater interest rate exposure than may be commercially prudent. As of December 31, 2010, we had two interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $150.0 million that expire in August 2011, under which, at each monthly settlement date, we either (1) receive the difference between a fixed interest rate (the “Strike Rate”) and one-month LIBOR if the Strike Rate is less than LIBOR or (2) pay such difference if the Strike Rate is greater than LIBOR. For further detail regarding our interest rate swaps, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The terms governing our unsecured line of credit and the Notes due 2020 include restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to respond to changing market conditions and our ability to make distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. The terms of our unsecured line of credit impose restrictions on us that affect our distribution and operating policies and our ability to incur additional debt. For example, we are subject to a maximum leverage ratio requirement (as defined) during the term of the loan, which could reduce our ability to incur additional debt and consequently reduce our ability to pay distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. The terms of our unsecured line of credit also contain limitations on our ability to make distributions to BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders in excess of those required to maintain BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s REIT status. Specifically, the terms of our unsecured line of credit limit distributions to 95% of funds from operations, but not less than the minimum necessary to enable us to meet BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s REIT income distribution requirements. In addition, the terms of our unsecured line of credit contain covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to further mortgage our properties or reduce insurance coverage, and that require us to maintain specified levels of net worth. The indenture governing the Notes due 2020 also contains financial and operating covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe them to be in our best interest, including restrictions on our ability to (1) consummate a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and (2) incur additional secured and unsecured indebtedness. The covenants relating to our unsecured line of credit and the Notes due 2020 may adversely affect our flexibility and our ability to achieve our operating plans. Our ability to comply with these covenants and other provisions relating to our credit agreement and the Notes due 2020 may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in general business and economic conditions, adverse regulatory developments or other events adversely impacting us. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our indebtedness, which could cause those and other obligations to become due and payable. If any of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay it, pursue our business plan or make distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. 22 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain external sources of capital, which is outside of our control, we may be unable to make distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders, maintain our REIT qualification, or fund growth. In order to maintain BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s qualification as a REIT and to avoid incurring a nondeductible excise tax, we are required, among other things, to distribute annually at least 90% of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s REIT taxable income, excluding any net capital gain. In addition, we will be subject to income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s net taxable income, including any net capital gains. Because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary acquisition financing, from operating cash flow. Consequently, we rely on third-party sources to fund our capital needs. We may not be able to obtain financings on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on: • general market conditions, • the market’s perception of our growth potential, • with respect to acquisition financing, the market’s perception of the value of the properties to be acquired, • our current debt levels, • our current and expected future earnings, • our cash flow and cash distributions, and • the market price per share of our common stock or preferred stock. Our inability to obtain capital from third-party sources will adversely affect our business and limit our growth. Without sufficient capital, we may not be able to acquire or develop properties when strategic opportunities exist, satisfy our debt service obligations or make the cash distributions to BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT. For distributions with respect to the taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2011, recent Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, guidance allows BioMed Realty Trust, Inc. to satisfy up to 90% of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s distribution requirements through the distribution of shares of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock, provided certain conditions are met. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments, adversely affecting our ability to service our debt obligations and pay distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. Interest we pay could reduce cash available for payments with respect to distributions. Additionally, if we incur variable rate debt, including borrowings under our $720.0 million unsecured line of credit, to the extent not adequately hedged, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs. These increased interest costs would reduce our cash flows and our ability to make payments with respect to distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders and BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. In addition, if we need to repay existing debt during a period of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments in properties at times that may not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s charter and Maryland law contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control transaction and may prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s charter, including the articles supplementary with respect to its preferred stock, contains ownership limits that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control transaction. BioMed Realty Trust, Inc’s charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve its qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by its board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% of the value of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s outstanding shares of capital stock or more than 9.8% in value or number (whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of its common stock or Series A preferred stock. The board may not grant such an exemption to a person whose ownership in excess of 9.8% of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s outstanding shares would result in BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s failure to qualify as a REIT. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply if BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s board of directors determines that it is no longer in BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s best interests to qualify as a REIT. The ownership limit may delay or impede a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of its stockholders. 23 Table of Contents BioMed Realty Trust, Inc. could authorize and issue stock without stockholder approval that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control transaction. BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s charter authorizes it to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of its common stock or preferred stock. In addition, BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. The board may also, without stockholder approval, amend BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s charter to increase or decrease the authorized number of shares of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock or preferred stock that it may issue. The board of directors could establish a class or series of common stock or preferred stock that could, depending on the terms of such class or series, delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of its stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law could delay, defer or prevent a change of control transaction. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control. In some cases, such an acquisition or change of control could provide BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of their shares. These MGCL provisions include: • “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for certain periods. An “interested stockholder” is generally any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s outstanding voting shares or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s then outstanding stock. A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. Business combinations with an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. After that period, the MGCL imposes two super-majority voting requirements on such business combinations, and • “control share” provisions that provide that holders of “control shares” of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc. acquired in a “control share acquisition” have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter (excluding interested shares). “Control shares” are voting shares that, when aggregated with all other shares owned by the stockholder or in respect of which the stockholder is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors. A “control share acquisition” is the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares.” In the case of the business combination provisions of the MGCL, we opted out by resolution of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s board of directors with respect to any business combination between us and any person provided such business combination is first approved by BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s board of directors (including a majority of directors who are not affiliates or associates of such person). In the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL, we opted out pursuant to a provision in BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s bylaws. However, BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s board of directors may by resolution elect to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL. Further, we may opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future by amending BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s bylaws, which BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s board of directors can do without stockholder approval. The partnership agreement of BioMed Realty, L.P., Maryland law, and BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. 24 Table of Contents BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s board of directors may amend our investing and financing policies in a manner that could increase the risk we default under our debt obligations or that could harm our business and results of operations. BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s board of directors has adopted a policy of targeting our indebtedness at approximately 50% of our total asset book value. However, our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of debt that we may incur, nor do they limit the types of properties we may acquire or develop. BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s board of directors may alter or eliminate our current policy on borrowing or investing at any time without stockholder approval. Changes in our strategy or in our investment or leverage policies could expose us to greater credit risk and interest rate risk and could also result in a more leveraged balance sheet. These factors could result in an increase in our debt service and could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s unitholders or BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. Higher leverage also increases the risk we could default on our debt. We may invest in properties with other entities, and our lack of sole decision-making authority or reliance on a co-venturer’s financial condition could make these joint venture investments risky. We have in the past and may continue in the future to co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities. We may acquire non-controlling interests or share responsibility for managing the affairs of a property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. In such events, we would not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property or entity. Investments in entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved. These risks include the possibility that partners or co-venturers: • might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, • may have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and • may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers if: • we structure a joint venture or conduct business in a manner that is deemed to be a general partnership with a third party, in which case we could be liable for the acts of that third party, • third-party managers incur debt or other liabilities on behalf of a joint venture which the joint venture is unable to pay, and the joint venture agreement provides for capital calls, in which case we could be liable to make contributions as set forth in any such joint venture agreement, or • we agree to cross-default provisions or to cross-collateralize our properties with the properties in a joint venture, in which case we could face liability if there is a default relating to those properties in the joint venture or the obligations relating to those properties. We have investments in joint ventures with PREI, which were formed in the second quarter of 2007. While we, as managing member, are authorized to carry out the day-to-day management of the business and affairs of the PREI joint ventures, PREI’s prior written consent is required for certain decisions, including decisions relating to financing, budgeting and the sale or pledge of interests in the properties owned by the PREI joint ventures. In addition, each of the PREI operating agreements includes a put/call option whereby either member can cause the limited liability company to sell certain properties in which it holds leasehold interests to us at any time after the fifth anniversary and before the seventh anniversary of the acquisition date. The put/call option may be exercised at a time we do not deem favorable for financial or other reasons, including the availability of cash at such time and the impact of tax consequences resulting from any sale. 25 Table of Contents Risks Related to BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s REIT Status BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s failure to qualify as a REIT under the Code would result in significant adverse tax consequences to us and would adversely affect our business. We believe that we have operated and intend to continue operating in a manner intended to allow BioMed Realty Trust, Inc. to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The fact that we hold substantially all of our assets through our operating partnership further complicates the application of the REIT requirements. Even a seemingly minor technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s REIT status. BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s REIT status depends upon various factual matters and circumstances that may not be entirely within our control. For example, in order for BioMed Realty Trust, Inc. to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must satisfy a number of requirements regarding the composition of our assets. Also, BioMed Realty Trust, Inc. must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s REIT taxable income, excluding capital gains. In addition, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions, each of which could have retroactive effect, may make it more difficult or impossible for BioMed Realty Trust, Inc. to qualify as a REIT, or could reduce the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the IRS that BioMed Realty Trust, Inc. qualifies as a REIT, and the statements in this report are not binding on the IRS or any court. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that BioMed Realty Trust, Inc. has qualified or will continue to qualify as a REIT. If BioMed Realty Trust, Inc. fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will face serious adverse tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt securities we issue and for distribution to BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. If BioMed Realty Trust, Inc. fails to qualify as a REIT: • we would not be allowed to deduct distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates, • we could also be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes, and • unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, BioMed Realty Trust, Inc. could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year in which BioMed Realty Trust, Inc. was disqualified. In addition, if BioMed Realty Trust, Inc. fails to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders; however, all distributions to BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders would be subject to tax as qualifying corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. As a result of all these factors, BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital and would adversely affect the value of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock and preferred stock. To maintain BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions to make distributions to BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders. For BioMed Realty Trust, Inc. to qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year, determined by excluding any net capital gain, and we will be subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income each year. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. For distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2011, recent IRS guidance allows us to satisfy up to 90% of these requirements through the distribution of shares of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock, provided certain conditions are met. To maintain BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s REIT status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes we may need to borrow funds to meet the REIT distribution requirements. These borrowing needs could result from: • differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, • the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, • the creation of reserves, or • required debt or amortization payments. 26 Table of Contents We may need to borrow funds at times when the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for borrowing. These borrowings could increase our costs or reduce our equity and adversely affect the value of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock or preferred stock. To maintain BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s REIT status, we may be forced to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. For BioMed Realty Trust, Inc. to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders and the ownership of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stock. We may be required to make distributions to BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s stockholders at times when it would be more advantageous to reinvest cash in our business or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. Risks Related to the Ownership of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc. Stock The market price and trading volume of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock may be volatile. The market price of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock has recently been, and may continue to be, volatile. In addition, the trading volume in BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. We cannot assure you that the market price of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or distributions, • changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates, • publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry, • increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s shares to demand a higher yield, • changes in market valuations of similar companies, • adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur or acquisitions we make in the future, • additions or departures of key management personnel, • actions by institutional stockholders, • speculation in the press or investment community, • the realization of any of the other risk factors presented in this report, and • general market and economic conditions. 27 Table of Contents Broad market fluctuations could negatively impact the market price of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock or preferred stock. The stock market has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies in industries similar or related to ours and that have been unrelated to these companies’ operating performance. These broad market fluctuations could reduce the market price of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock or preferred stock. Furthermore, our operating results and prospects may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors or may be lower than those of companies with comparable market capitalizations. Either of these factors could lead to a material decline in the market price of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock or preferred stock. Market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s securities. One of the factors that will influence the price of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock and preferred stock will be the dividend yield on such stock (as a percentage of the price of the stock) relative to market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates may lead prospective purchasers of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock or Series A preferred stock to expect a higher dividend yield, and higher interest rates would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock and Series A preferred stock to fall. Our distributions to unitholders and stockholders may decline at any time. We may not continue our current level of distributions to unitholders and stockholders. BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s board of directors will determine future distributions based on a number of factors, including: • cash available for distribution, • operating results, • our financial condition, especially in relation to our anticipated future capital needs, • then current expansion plans, • the distribution requirements for REITs under the Code, and • other factors our board deems relevant. In April 2009, in an effort to maintain financial flexibility in light of the current capital markets environment, we reset our annual dividend rate on shares of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock and the annual distribution rate on BioMed Realty, L.P.’s OP units to $0.44 per share or unit, starting in the second quarter of 2009. We subsequently increased these rates to $0.56 per share or unit, starting in the fourth quarter of 2009, to $0.60 per share or unit, starting in the second quarter of 2010, and to $0.68 per share or unit, starting in the third quarter of 2010. The decision to declare and pay dividends on shares of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock or distributions to BioMed Realty, L.P.’s OP units in the future, as well as the timing, amount and composition of any such future dividends, will be at the sole discretion of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, debt maturities, the availability of debt and equity capital, applicable REIT and legal restrictions and the general overall economic conditions and other factors. Any change in our dividend policy could have a material adverse effect on the market price of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock. 28 Table of Contents The number of shares of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock available for future sale could adversely affect the market price of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock. We cannot predict whether future issuances of shares of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock or the availability of shares for resale in the open market will decrease the market price per share of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock. As of December 31, 2010, 131,046,509 shares of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock were issued and outstanding, as well as BioMed Realty L.P.’s operating partnership units and LTIP units which may be exchanged for 2,593,538 and 407,712 shares of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock, respectively, based on the number of shares of common stock, operating partnership units and LTIP units outstanding as of December 31, 2010. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, we had reserved an additional 2,509,809 shares of common stock for future issuance under our incentive award plan, 534,107 shares potentially issuable upon exchange of the Notes due 2026 (based on the exchange rate as of December 31, 2010), and 9,914,076 shares potentially issuable upon exchange of the Notes due 2030 (based on the exchange rate as of December 31, 2010). Sales of substantial amounts of shares of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock in the public market, or upon exchange of operating partnership units, LTIP units, the Notes due 2026 or the Notes due 2030, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect the market price of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock. Furthermore, under the rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission in December 2005 regarding registration and offering procedures, if we meet the definition of a “well-known seasoned issuer” under Rule 405 of the Securities Act, we are permitted to file an automatic shelf registration statement that will be immediately effective upon filing. On September 4, 2009, we filed such an automatic shelf registration statement, as amended, which may permit us, from time to time, to offer and sell debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, warrants and other securities to the extent necessary or advisable to meet our liquidity needs. Any of the following could have an adverse effect on the market price of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock: • the exchange of operating partnership units, LTIP units, the Notes due 2026 or the Notes due 2030, • additional grants of LTIP units, restricted stock or other securities to our directors, executive officers and other employees under our incentive award plan, • additional issuances of preferred stock with liquidation or distribution preferences, and • other issuances of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock. Additionally, the existence of operating partnership units, LTIP units, the Notes due 2026 or the Notes due 2030 and shares of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock reserved for issuance upon exchange of operating partnership units, LTIP units, the Notes due 2026 or the Notes due 2030 and under our incentive award plan may adversely affect the terms upon which we may be able to obtain additional capital through the sale of equity securities. In addition, future sales of shares of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock may be dilutive to existing stockholders. From time to time we also may issue shares of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock or BioMed Realty, L.P. operating partnership units in connection with property, portfolio or business acquisitions. We may grant additional demand or piggyback registration rights in connection with these issuances. Sales of substantial amounts of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect the prevailing market price of BioMed Realty Trust, Inc.’s common stock or may adversely affect the terms upon which we may be able to obtain additional capital through the sale of equity securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 