Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the risks discussed throughout this report we are subject to the following risks. Risks Relating to our Business Changes in the level of capital-spending by our customers could materially and adversely impact our business and financial condition. Our principal customers are oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. Our results of operations and financial condition depend on the level of capital spending by our customers. The energy industry’s level of capital spending is tied to the prevailing commodity prices of natural gas and crude oil. Low commodity prices have the potential to reduce the amount of crude oil and natural gas that our customers can economically produce and volatility in commodity prices may make our customers reluctant to invest in oilfields where our products would be required. Although our products enhance the efficiency of producing wells, we believe a prolonged or substantial downturn in market price would lead to reductions or delays in the capital spending of our clients and therefore in the demand for our products and services, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. 13 Our business depends on spending by the oil and gas industry; this spending and our business may be materially and adversely affected by industry conditions that are beyond our control. We depend on our customers’ willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to transport, refine and produce oil and natural gas. Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, such as: · the level of oil and gas production; · the demand for oil and gas related products; · domestic and worldwide economic conditions; · political instability in the Middle East and other oil producing regions; · the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; · the price of foreign imports of oil and gas, including liquefied natural gas; · natural disasters or weather conditions, such as hurricanes; · technological advances affecting energy consumption; · the level of oil and gas inventories; · the cost of producing oil and gas; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · merger and divestiture activity among oil and gas producers; and · governmental regulations. The volatility of the oil and gas industry and the consequent impact on the transportation, refinement and production of oil and natural gas could cause a decline in the demand for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our assets and operations, as well as the assets and operations of our customers, could be adversely affected by weather and other natural phenomena. Our assets and operations could be adversely affected by natural phenomena, such as tornados, earthquakes, wildfire, and landslides. A significant disruption in our operations or the operations of our customers due to weather or other natural phenomena could adversely affect our business and financial condition. The attractive nature of the oilfield services industry could lead to an increase of direct competitors. The oilfield services industry is highly competitive. As our segment within the oil and gas exploration and production industry grows and matures we expect additional companies will seek to enter this market. New entrants to our industry may be more highly capitalized, more experienced, better recognized or better situated to take advantage of market opportunities. Any failure by us to compete against current and future competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes to governmental regulation of the oil and gas industry could materially and adversely affect our business. If the laws and regulations governing oil and natural gas exploration and production were to become less stringent, we could experience a significant decline in the demand for our products, which we would expect would materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. These regulations are subject to change and new regulations may curtail or eliminate customer activities in certain areas where we currently operate. We cannot determine the extent to which new legislation may impact customer activity levels, and ultimately, the demand for our products and services. Further, our operations are affected by local, provincial, state, federal and foreign laws and other regulations relating to gas and electric safety standards and the oil and gas industry, as well as laws and regulations relating to worker safety and potentially environmental protection. We cannot predict the level of enforcement of existing laws and regulations, how such existing laws and regulations may be interpreted by enforcement agencies or court rulings, whether additional laws and regulations will be adopted, or the effect such changes may have on us, our business or financial condition. 14 Failure to comply with applicable environmental and other laws and regulations could adversely affect our business and harm our results of operations. We may use hazardous materials in our research and development and manufacturing processes, and, as a result, are subject to federal, state, local and foreign regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and hazardous waste products that we generate. Although we believe that our procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of hazardous materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, including a discharge of hazardous materials into the environment, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our insurance and other resources. We have also incurred and may continue to incur expenses related to compliance with environmental laws. Such future expenses or liability could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we cannot assure you that the cost of complying with these laws and regulations will not materially increase in the future. We are also subject to various other federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including new or revised safety or environmental standards, could give rise to significant liability and require us to incur substantial expenses and could materially harm our results of operations. Our international operations involve additional risks not associated with our domestic operations. We intend to continue our expansion into international oil and gas producing areas. The effect on our international operations from the risks we describe will not be the same in all countries and jurisdictions. Risks associated with our operations outside of the United States include risks of: · multiple, conflicting, and changing laws and regulations, export and import restrictions, and employment laws; · regulatory requirements, and other government approvals, permits, and licenses; · potentially adverse tax consequences; · political and economic instability, including wars and acts of terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailments of trade and sanctions, and other business restrictions; · expropriation, confiscation or nationalization of assets; 15 · renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; · difficulties and costs in recruiting and retaining individuals skilled in international business operations; · foreign exchange restrictions; · foreign currency fluctuations; · foreign taxation; · the inability to repatriate earnings or capital; · changing foreign and domestic monetary policies; · cultural and communication challenges; · industry-process differences; · regional economic downturns; and · foreign governmental regulations favoring or requiring the awarding of contracts to local contractors or requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction that may harm our ability to compete. Sanctions by the U.S. government against certain companies and individuals in Russia and Ukraine may hinder our ability to conduct business with potential or existing customers in these countries. While we have not historically derived significant revenue from business in either Russia or Ukraine, the continuation or escalation of the current geopolitical instability in Russia and Ukraine could negatively impact our future operations, sales, and future growth prospects in that region. Recently, the U.S. government imposed sanctions through several executive orders restricting U.S. companies from conducting business with specified Russian and Ukrainian individuals and companies. The sanctions imposed by the U.S. government may be expanded in the future to restrict us from engaging with existing and potential customers. If we are unable to conduct business with new or existing customers or pursue opportunities in Russia or Ukraine, our business, including revenue, profitability and cash flows, could be adversely affected. Our business has potential liability for litigation, personal injury and property damage claims assessments. Most of our products are used in hazardous production applications and involve exposure to inherent risks, including explosions and fires, where an accident or a failure of a product could result in liability for personal injury, loss of life, property damage, pollution or other environmental hazards or loss of production. Litigation may arise from a catastrophic occurrence at a location where our equipment and services are used. This litigation could result in large claims for damages, including consequential damages, and could impair the market’s acceptance of our products. The frequency and severity of such incidents could affect our operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators. These occurrences could have an adverse effect on us. Our business may be subject to product liability claims or product recalls, which could be expensive and could result in a diversion of management’s attention. The oil industry experiences significant product liability claims. As an installer and servicer of oilfield combustion management technologies and related products, we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that our products, or the equipment into which our products are incorporated, malfunction and result in personal injury or death. We may be named in product liability claims even if there is no evidence that our technology or products caused the accidents. Product liability claims could result in significant losses as a result of expenses incurred in defending claims or the award of damages. In addition, we may be required to participate in recalls involving our products if any of our products prove to be defective, or we may voluntarily initiate a recall or make payments related to such claims as a result of various industry or business practices or the need to maintain good customer relationships. We cannot assure you that our product liability insurance will be sufficient to cover all product liability claims, that such claims will not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that such insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any product liability claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. 16 Uninsured or underinsured claims or litigation or an increase in our insurance premiums could adversely impact our results of operations. Although we maintain insurance protection for certain risks in our business and operations, we are not fully insured against all possible risks, nor are all such risks insurable. It is possible an unexpected judgment could be rendered against us in cases in which we could be uninsured or underinsured and beyond the amounts we currently have reserved or anticipate incurring. Significant increases in the cost of insurance and more restrictive coverage may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable or that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future claims and assessments that may arise. Liability to customers under warranties may materially and adversely affect our earnings. We provide warranties as to the proper operation and conformance to specifications of the products we sell. Failure of our products to operate properly or to meet specifications may increase our costs by requiring additional engineering resources and services, replacement of parts and equipment or monetary reimbursement to a customer. We have in the past received warranty claims, and we expect to continue to receive them in the future. To the extent that we incur substantial warranty claims in any period, our reputation, our ability to obtain future business and our earnings could be adversely affected. Some of our products use equipment and materials that are available from a limited number of suppliers. We purchase equipment provided by a limited number of manufacturers who specialize in combustion burner equipment. During periods of high demand, these manufacturers may not be able to meet our requests for timely delivery, resulting in delayed deliveries of equipment and higher prices for equipment. There are a limited number of suppliers for certain materials used in burner management systems, our largest product line. Although these materials are generally available, supply disruptions may occur due to factors beyond our control. Such disruptions, delayed deliveries, and higher prices could limit our ability to provide services or increase the costs of providing services, thus possibly reducing revenues and profits. 17 Dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourcing other portions of our supply chain may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market and damage our reputation. As part of our efforts to streamline operations and to cut costs, we outsource our manufacturing processes and other functions and continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. If our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market and our reputation could suffer. For example, during a market upturn, our contract manufacturers may be unable to meet our demand requirements, which may preclude us from fulfilling our customers’ orders on a timely basis. The ability of these manufacturers to perform is largely outside of our control. Additionally, changing or replacing our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers could cause disruptions or delays. Historically, we have been dependent on a few major customers for a significant portion of our revenue and our revenue could decline if we are unable to maintain those relationships, if customers reduce their orders for their products, or if we are unable to secure new customers. Historically, we have derived a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers. For the years ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, sales to our largest four customers accounted for approximately 47% and 37%, respectively, of our revenue. While we continually seek to broaden our customer base, it is likely that for the foreseeable future we will remain dependent on these customers to supply a substantial portion of our revenue. Relationships with our customers are based on purchase orders rather than long-term formal supply agreements and customers can discontinue or materially reduce orders without warning or penalty. Demand for our products is tied directly to the health of the oil industry. Accordingly, factors that affect the oil industry have a direct effect on our business, including factors outside of our control, such as sales slowdowns due to economic concerns, or as a result of natural disasters. The loss of one or more of our significant customers, or reduced demand from one or more of our significant customers, would result in an adverse effect on our revenue, our profitability, and our ability to continue our business operations. We are exposed to risks of delay, cancellation, and nonpayment by customers in the ordinary course of our business activities. We are exposed to risks of loss in the event of delay, cancellation, and nonpayment by our customers. Our customers are subject to their own operating and regulatory risks and may be highly leveraged. We may experience financial losses in our dealings with other parties. Any delay and any increases in the cancellation of contracts or nonpayment by our customers and/or counterparties could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results for certain components of our business may fluctuate on a seasonal basis. Revenues from the sale of our products can fluctuate depending on the season. The demand for oil, natural gas and other fuels peak during the winter months. Since oil and natural gas producers make up our customer base, the demand for our products could fluctuate seasonally with the demand for oil and natural gas and drilling seasonality. Demand for natural gas and other fuels could vary significantly from our expectations depending on the location of our customers. 18 Our ability to successfully commercialize our technology and products may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to obtain and maintain effective intellectual property rights for our technologies and planned products, or if the scope of the intellectual property protection is not sufficiently broad. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other intellectual property protection in the U.S. with respect to our proprietary technology and products. In recent years patent rights have been the subject of significant litigation. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of the patent rights is highly uncertain. Pending and future patent applications may not result in patents being issued which protect our technology or products or which effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and products. Changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the U.S. may diminish the value of patents or narrow the scope of patent protection. Publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the U.S. and other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our patents or pending patent applications, or that we or were the first to file for patent protection of such inventions. Even if the patent applications we rely on issue as patents, they may not issue in a form that will provide us with any meaningful protection, prevent competitors from competing with us or otherwise provide us with any competitive advantage. Our competitors may be able to circumvent our patents by developing similar or alternative technologies or products in a non-infringing manner. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its scope, validity or enforceability, and patents may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the U.S. and abroad. Such challenges may result in patent claims being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable, which could limit our ability to stop or prevent us from stopping others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products, or limit the duration of the patent protection of our technology and products. As a result, our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours or otherwise provide us with a competitive advantage. While we are not currently engaged in any material intellectual property litigation, in the future we may commence lawsuits against others if we believe they have infringed our rights. We cannot be assured that we would be successful in any such litigation. Our involvement in any intellectual property litigation could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources, may adversely affect the development of sales of our products or intellectual property, our capital resources, or may divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights throughout the world. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on all of our planned products throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive to us. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and, further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection but where enforcement is not as strong as in the U.S. These products may compete with our products in jurisdictions where we do not have any issued patents and our intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from so competing. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries may not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of any patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally. Proceedings to enforce any patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. 19 If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, the value of our technology could be materially adversely affected, harming our business and competitive position. Some of our proprietary intellectual property is not protected by any patent, copyright or patent or copyright applications, and, despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use such intellectual property without authorization. We rely upon confidential proprietary information, including trade secrets, unpatented know-how, technology, software, and other proprietary information, to develop and maintain our competitive position. Any disclosure to or misappropriation by third parties of our confidential proprietary information could enable competitors to quickly duplicate or surpass our technological achievements, thus eroding our competitive position in the market. We seek to protect our confidential proprietary information, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees and our collaborators and consultants. We also have agreements with our employees and selected consultants that obligate them to assign their inventions to us. These agreements are designed to protect our proprietary information, however, we cannot be certain that our trade secrets and other confidential information will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets, or that technology relevant to our business will not be independently developed by a person that is not a party to such an agreement. Furthermore, if the employees, consultants or collaborators that are parties to these agreements breach or violate the terms of these agreements, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach or violation, and we could lose our trade secrets through such breaches or violations. Further, our trade secrets could be disclosed, misappropriated or otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. In addition, intellectual property laws in foreign countries may not protect trade secrets and confidential information to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. If we are unable to prevent disclosure of the intellectual property related to our technologies to third parties, we may not be able to establish or maintain a competitive advantage in our market, which would harm our ability to protect our rights and have a material adverse effect on our business. Third parties may initiate legal proceedings alleging that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, the outcome of which would be uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business. Our commercial success depends upon our ability and the ability of our distributors, contract manufacturers, and suppliers to manufacture, market, and sell our products, and to use our proprietary technologies without infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating the proprietary rights or intellectual property of third parties. While we are not aware of any issued or pending patent applications that could restrict our ability to operate, we may in the future become party to, or be threatened with, adversarial proceedings or litigation regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us based on existing or future intellectual property rights. If we are found to infringe a third-party’s intellectual property rights, we may be temporarily or permanently prohibited from commercializing our products that are held to be infringing. We might, if possible, also be forced to redesign our products so that we no longer infringe the third party intellectual property rights or we could be required to obtain a license from such third-party to continue developing and marketing our products and technology. We may also elect to enter into such a license in order to settle pending or threatened litigation. However, we may not be able to obtain any required license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, it could be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same technologies licensed to us, and could require us to pay significant royalties and other fees. We could be forced, including by court order, to cease commercializing the infringing technology or product. In addition, we could be found liable for monetary damages. A finding of infringement could prevent us from commercializing our products or force us to cease some of our business operations, which could materially harm our business. 20 Even if we are successful in defending against intellectual property claims, litigation or other legal proceedings relating to such claims may cause us to incur significant expenses, and could distract our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Such litigation or proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce our resources available for development activities. We may not have sufficient financial or other resources to adequately conduct such litigation or proceedings. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of litigation or other intellectual property related proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. If we do not develop and commercialize new competitive products, our revenue may decline. To remain competitive in the market for oilfield combustion management technologies, we must continue to develop and commercialize new products. If we are not able to develop commercially competitive products in a timely manner in response to industry demands, our business and revenues will be adversely affected. Our future ability to develop new products depends on our ability to: · design and commercially produce products that meet the needs of our customers; · attract and retain talented research-and-development management and personnel; · successfully market new products; and · protect our proprietary designs from our competitors. 21 We may encounter resource constraints or technical or other difficulties that could delay introduction of new products and services. Our competitors may introduce new products before we do and achieve a competitive advantage. Additionally, the time and expense invested in product development may not result in commercial products or provide revenues. We could be required to write off our entire investment in a new product that does not reach commercial viability. Moreover, we may experience operating losses after new products are introduced and commercialized because of high start-up costs, unexpected manufacturing costs or problems, or lack of demand. New technologies could render our existing products obsolete. New developments in technology may negatively affect the development or sale of some or all of our products or make our products obsolete. Our success depends upon our ability to design, develop and market new or modified combustion management technologies and related products. Our inability to enhance existing products in a timely manner or to develop and introduce new products that incorporate new technologies, conform to stringent regulatory standards and performance requirements and achieve market acceptance in a timely manner could negatively impact our competitive position. New product development or modification is costly, involves significant research, development, time and expense and may not necessarily result in the successful commercialization of any new products. Our business and financial condition could be negatively impacted if we lose the services of certain members of senior management. Our development to date has largely depended, and in the future will continue to largely depend, on the efforts of our senior management, including Brenton W. Hatch, CEO, Harold Albert, COO, and Andrew W. Limpert, CFO. We currently do not have key-person insurance for these individuals; however, our recent revenue growth, uplisting to Nasdaq, and corporate expansion—and the increased visibility and shareholder expectations entailed with such—could make the risks associated with the departures of such individuals greater than in the past. Departures by members of our senior management could have a negative impact on our business, as we may not be able to find suitable personnel to replace departing members on a timely basis or at all. The loss of any member of our senior management could impair our ability to execute our business plan and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failing to attract and retain skilled employees could impair our growth potential and profitability. Our ability to remain productive and profitable depends substantially on our ability to attract and retain skilled employees. Our ability to expand our operations is in part impacted by our ability to increase our labor force. The demand for skilled oilfield employees is high and the supply is limited. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction in our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates paid by us, or both. If either of these events were to occur, our capacity and profitability could be diminished, and our growth potential could be impaired. 22 If we are unable to expand into new markets, our ability to grow our business and profitability as planned could be materially and adversely effected. We intend to continue to pursue our aggressive growth strategy for the foreseeable future. Future operating results will depend largely upon our ability to expand to new markets and increase sales. To support this growth, we have and will continue to expand our marketing expenditures, add new employees and open additional offices. There can be no assurance that we will be able to expand our market share in our existing markets or successfully enter new or contiguous markets. Nor can there be any assurance that such expansion will not adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. If we are unable to enter into new markets, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to successfully expand to new markets, or expand our penetration in existing markets, is dependent on a number of factors including: · our ability to market our products and services to new customers; · our ability to provide increasingly large-scale support and training materials for a growing customer base; · our ability to hire, train and assimilate new employees; · the adequacy of our financial resources; and · our ability to correctly identify and exploit new geographical markets and to successfully compete in those markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our planned expansion, that our products will gain access to new markets or be accepted in new marketplaces, achieve greater market penetration in existing markets or that we will achieve planned operating results or results comparable to those we experience in existing markets in the new markets we enter. Our awards of stock options to employees may not have their intended effect. A portion of our total compensation program for key personnel has historically included the award of options to buy our common stock. If the price of our common stock performs poorly, such performance may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract critical personnel. In addition, any changes made to our stock option policies, or to any other of our compensation practices, which are made necessary by governmental regulations or competitive pressures could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. 23 Risks Relating to our Stock Our common stock lacks liquidity. A significant percentage of our outstanding common stock is “restricted” and therefore subject to the resale restrictions set forth in Rule 144 of the rules and regulations promulgated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or “Commission”) under the Securities Act of 1933. These factors could adversely affect the liquidity, trading volume, price and transferability of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been volatile, and fluctuates widely in price in response to various factors, which are beyond our control. The price of our common stock is not necessarily indicative of our operating performance or long-term business prospects. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Factors such as the following could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially: · the introduction of new products by our competitors; · announcements of technology advances by us or our competitors; · current events affecting the political and economic environment in the United States; · conditions or trends in the industry, including demand for our products and services and technological advances; · changes to financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; · additions or departures of our key personnel; · government regulation of our industry; · seasonal, economic, or financial conditions; · our quarterly operating and financial results; or · litigation or public concern about the safety of our products. The realization of any of these risks and other factors beyond our control could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. In particular, the market price of our common stock may be influenced by variations in oil and gas prices, because demand for our products and services is closely related to those products. The stock market in general experiences from time to time extreme price and volume fluctuations. Periodic and/or continuous market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. Price volatility may be worse if the trading volume of our common stock is low. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that future sales may occur, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, even if our business is doing well. As of June 27, 2014, the registrant had 48,041,563 shares of our common stock outstanding, and options that are exercisable into 3,184,615 shares of our common stock. If any significant number of our outstanding shares are sold, such sales could have a depressive effect on the market price of our stock. We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that the sale of shares, or the availability of shares for future sale, will have on the market price of the shares prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could depress prevailing market prices for the shares. Such sales may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price, which we deem appropriate. 24 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, and current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting. We are required by the SEC to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We are likewise required, on a quarterly basis, to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls and to disclose any changes and material weaknesses in those internal controls. In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2013, we reported that we had the following material weaknesses in our internal controls: (1) lack of a functioning Audit Committee and lack of independent directors on our Board of Directors (the “Board”), resulting in potentially ineffective oversight in the establishment and monitoring of required internal controls and procedures; (2) inadequate segregation of duties consistent with control objectives; (3) insufficient written policies and procedures for accounting and financial reporting with respect to the requirements and application of US GAAP and SEC disclosure requirements; and (4) ineffective controls over period end financial disclosure and reporting processes. Since March 31, 2013, we developed and implemented a remediation plan to address the identified material weakness as follows: 1. We have added four independent directors to our Board and on the 7th day of November, 2013, the Board passed a resolution creating a fully functioning Audit Committee comprised of independent directors; 2. We hired a separate accounts payable and accounts receivable clerks in an effort to provide segregation of duties in accordance with our control objectives; 3. We implemented several policies to increase the control over accounting and financial reporting; and, 4. We hired additional employees to supplement our internal finance team and help oversee the filing of quarterly and year-end filings. Although we believe that these efforts have strengthened our internal control over financial reporting, we cannot be certain that our revised internal control practices will ensure that we maintain adequate internal control over our financial reporting in future periods. Any failure to maintain such internal controls could adversely impact our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. If our financial statements are not accurate, investors may not have a complete understanding of our operations. Likewise, if our financial statements are not filed on a timely basis as required by the SEC and The NASDAQ Capital Market, we could face severe consequences from those authorities. In either case, there could result a material adverse effect on our business. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. 25 We could issue “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval with the effect of diluting existing stockholders and impairing their voting rights, and provisions in our charter documents and under Nevada corporate law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our Board. Our Board is empowered, without stockholder approval, to authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could dilute the interest of, or impair the voting power of, our common stockholders. The issuance of a series of preferred stock could be used as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. For example, it would be possible for the Board to authorize preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to effect a change in control of our company. Any aspect of the foregoing, alone or together, could delay or prevent unsolicited takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management We do not anticipate paying cash dividends for the foreseeable future, and therefore investors should not buy our stock if they wish to receive cash dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends or distributions on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends in the future will be dependent on the amount of funds legally available, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors that our Board may deem relevant. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Accordingly, you will need to rely on sales of your common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, in order to realize a return on your investment. Our management has a substantial ownership interest in our common stock and the availability of our common stock to the investing public may be limited. The availability of our common stock to the investing public may be limited to those shares not held by our executive officers, directors and their affiliates, which could negatively impact our trading prices and affect the ability of our minority stockholders to sell their shares. Future sales by executive officers, directors and their affiliates of all or a portion of their shares could also negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. 26 Our management has significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. Our management owns, approximately 71.5% of our common stock, as of June 27, 2014. As a result, our management has sufficient voting power to control the outcome of many matters requiring shareholder approval. These matters may include: · the composition of our Board, which has the authority to direct our business, appoint and remove our officers, and declare dividends; · approving or rejecting a merger, consolidation or other business combination; · raising future capital; and · amending our articles of incorporation and bylaws. This concentration of ownership of our common stock could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our common stock that might otherwise give our other stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. The interests of our management may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. Furthermore, this concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a change in control, or deprive you of a possible premium for your common stock as part of a sale of our company. We may not be able to maintain compliance with The NASDAQ Capital Market’s continued listing requirements. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. There are a number of continued listing requirements that we must satisfy in order to maintain our listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market. If we fail to maintain compliance with all applicable continued listing requirements for The NASDAQ Capital Market and NASDAQ determines to delist our common stock, the delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock, our ability to obtain financing to repay any debt and fund our operations. 27 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As a smaller reporting company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act, and in Item 10(f)(1) of Regulation S-K, we are electing scaled disclosure reporting obligations and therefore are not required to provide the information requested by this Item. 