D. RISK FACTORS Our assets are primarily engaged in transporting crude oil and oil products, drybulk and containerized cargos, and in offshore drilling and related activities. The following summarizes some of the risks that may materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Unless otherwise indicated in this Annual Report on Form 20-F, all information concerning our business and our assets is as of March 16 2009. 2 Risks Relating to Our Industry Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the U.S. and in other parts of the world could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. Over the last year, global financial markets have experienced extraordinary disruption and volatility following adverse changes in the global credit markets. The credit markets in the U.S. have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity, and governments have taken highly significant measures in response to such events, including the enactment of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 in the U.S., and may implement other significant responses in the future. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. A number of financial institutions have experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, have entered into bankruptcy proceedings or are in regulatory enforcement actions. These difficulties may adversely affect the financial institutions that provide our capital commitments and may impair their ability to continue to perform under their financing obligations to us, which could have an impact on our ability to fund current and future obligations. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the U.S. and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our credit facilities or any future financial arrangements. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and governmental factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. The price of our common shares has declined significantly and if economic conditions continue or worsen it could further impair our business, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. The seaborne transportation industry is cyclical and volatile, and this may lead to reductions in our charter rates, vessel values and results of operations. The international seaborne transportation industry is both cyclical and volatile in terms of charter rates and profitability. The degree of charter rate volatility for vessels has varied widely. Fluctuations in charter rates result from changes in the supply and demand for vessel capacity and changes in the supply and demand for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products internationally carried at sea. If we enter into a charter when charterhire rates are low, our revenues and earnings will be adversely affected. In addition, a decline in charterhire rates likely will cause the value of our vessels to decline. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew our existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably, meet our obligations or pay dividends to our shareholders. The factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. 3 Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: · supply and demand for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; · changes in the production of energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; · the location of regional and global production and manufacturing facilities; · the location of consuming regions for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; · the globalization of production and manufacturing; · global and regional economic and political conditions; · developments in international trade; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including the distance cargo is transported by sea; · environmental and other regulatory developments; · currency exchange rates; and · weather. Factors that influence supply of vessel capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · the price of steel and vessel equipment; · changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of vessels; · the number of vessels that are out of service; and · port or canal congestion. Demand for our vessels and charter rates are dependent upon seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes to the capacity of the world fleet. We believe the capacity of the world fleet is likely to increase and there can be no assurance that economic growth will be at a rate sufficient to utilize this new capacity. Continued adverse economic, political or social conditions or other developments could further negatively impact charter rates and therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. A further economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the U.S. and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Demand for our vessels and charter rates are dependent upon economic conditions in China, India and the rest of the world. Until recently, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, which had a significant impact on shipping demand. If the economic slowdown in China, as well as the Asia Pacific region, continues, it may exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the U.S. and the European Union and may have a further material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. Through the end of the fourth quarter of 2008, China’s gross domestic product was approximately 4.4% lower than it was during the same period in 2007, and it is likely that China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region will continue to experience slowed or even negative economic growth in the near future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the U.S., the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by a further economic downturn in any of these countries. 4 Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five year state plans are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through state plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a “market economy” and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. The level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. An acceleration of the current prohibition to trade deadlines for our non-double hull tankers could adversely affect our operations. The U.S., the European Union and the International Maritime Organization, or the IMO, have all imposed limits or prohibitions on the use of these types of tankers in specified markets after certain target dates, depending on certain factors such as the size of the vessel and the type of cargo. In the case of our non-double hull tankers, these phase out dates range from 2010 to 2018. As of April 15 2005, the Marine Environmental Protection Committee of the IMO has amended the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships to accelerate the phase out of certain categories of non-double hull tankers, including the types of vessels in our fleet, from 2015 to 2010 unless the relevant flag states extend the date. Our fleet includes nine non-double hull tankers, including two which we have sold on hire-purchase terms scheduled to expire in November 2010 and October 2011. This change could result in some or all of our non-double hull tankers being unable to trade in many markets after the relevant phase-out date in 2010. In addition, non-double hull tankers are likely to be chartered less frequently and at lower rates. Additional regulations may be adopted in the future that could further adversely affect the useful lives of our non-double hull tankers, as well as our ability to generate income from them. 5 Safety, environmental and other governmental and other requirements expose us to liability, and compliance with current and future regulations could require significant additional expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national, state and local laws, regulations, treaties, conventions and standards in force in international waters, the jurisdictions in which our tankers and other vessels operate and the country or countries in which such vessels are registered, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of oil spills and other contamination, air emissions, and water discharges and ballast water management. These regulations include the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the U.S. Clean Water Act, the U.S. Clean Air Act, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973, the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, or SOLAS, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966 and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002. In addition, vessel classification societies also impose significant safety and other requirements on our vessels. In complying with current and future environmental requirements, vessel owners and operators may also incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become stricter in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution, and our compliance with these requirements can be costly. These requirements also can affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in cargo-capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, natural resource damages and third-party claims for personal injury or property damages, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our current or historic operations. We could also incur substantial penalties, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions, including in certain instances seizure or detention of our vessels, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws, regulations and other requirements. For example, OPA affects all vessel owners shipping oil to, from or within the U.S. OPA allows for potentially unlimited liability without regard to fault for owners, operators and bareboat charterers of vessels for oil pollution in U.S. waters. Similarly, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969, as amended, which has been adopted by most countries outside of the U.S., imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. OPA expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries. Coastal states in the U.S. have enacted pollution prevention liability and response laws, many providing for unlimited liability. 6 Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Throughout 2008 and early 2009, the frequency of piracy incidents has increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as “war risk” zones, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, or Joint War Committee “war and strikes” listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including those due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An over-supply of container vessel capacity may lead to further reductions in charter hire rates and profitability. The market supply of container vessels has been increasing, and the number of container vessels on order is at an historic high. This has led to an over-supply of container vessel capacity, resulting in a reduction of charter hire rates and a decrease in the value of our container vessels. The reduction in rates may, under certain circumstances, affect the ability of our customers who charter our container vessels to make charterhire payments to us. This and other factors affecting the supply and demand for container vessels and the supply and demand for products shipped in containers are outside our control and the nature, timing and degree of changes in the industry may affect the ability of our charterers to make charterhire payments to us. Increased inspection procedures, tighter import and export controls and new security regulations could increase costs and cause disruption of our container shipping business. International container shipping is subject to security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin, destination and trans-shipment points. These security procedures can result in cargo seizure, delays in the loading, offloading, trans-shipment, or delivery of containers and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against exporters or importers and, in some cases, carriers. Since the events of September 11 2001, U.S. authorities have significantly increased the levels of inspection for all imported containers. Government investment in non-intrusive container scanning technology has grown, and there is interest in electronic monitoring technology, including so-called “e-seals” and “smart” containers that would enable remote, centralized monitoring of containers during shipment to identify tampering with or opening of the containers, along with potentially measuring other characteristics such as temperature, air pressure, motion, chemicals, biological agents and radiation. It is unclear what changes, if any, to the existing security procedures will ultimately be proposed or implemented, or how any such changes will affect the container shipping industry. These changes have the potential to impose additional financial and legal obligations on carriers and, in certain cases, to render the shipment of certain types of goods by container uneconomical or impractical. These additional costs could reduce the volume of goods shipped in containers, resulting in a decreased demand for container vessels. In addition, it is unclear what financial costs any new security procedures might create for container vessel owners and operators. Any additional costs or a decrease in container volumes could have an adverse impact on our customers that charter container vessels from us and, under certain circumstances, may affect their ability to make charterhire payments to us under the terms of our charters. 7 The offshore drilling sector depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by, among other things, volatile oil and gas prices and may be materially and adversely affected by a decline in the offshore oil and gas industry. We have made substantial investments to expand our business in the offshore drilling sector, including the acquisition of three additional drilling units for a total acquisition cost of approximately $2.5 billion. The offshore contract drilling industry is cyclical and volatile. Our business in the offshore drilling sector depends on the level of activity in oil and gas exploration and development and production in offshore areas world-wide. The availability of quality drilling prospects, exploration success, relative production costs and political and regulatory environments affect our customers’ drilling campaigns. Oil and gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in these prices also significantly affect this level of activity and demand for drilling units. The recent decline in the price of oil and gas may negatively affect our business in the offshore drilling sector and may adversely affect us. Sustained periods of low oil prices typically result in reduced exploration and drilling because oil and gas companies’ capital expenditure budgets are subject to their cash flow and are therefore sensitive to changes in energy prices. These changes in commodity prices can have a dramatic effect on the demand for drilling units, and periods of low demand can cause an excess supply of drilling units. Any decrease in exploration, development or production expenditures by oil and gas companies could also materially and adversely affect the business of the charterers of our drilling units and their ability to perform under their existing charters with us. Any such decrease could also adversely affect our offshore supply business. Also, increased competition for our customers’ drilling budgets could come from, among other areas, land-based energy markets in Africa, Russia, other former Soviet Union states, the Middle East and Alaska. Worldwide military, political and economic events have contributed to oil and gas price volatility and are likely to do so in the future. Oil and gas prices are extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors, including the following: · worldwide demand for oil and gas; · the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and pricing; · the level of production in non-OPEC countries; · the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves; · the development and implementation of policies to increase the use of renewable energy; · advances in exploration and development technology; and · the worldwide military and political environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in oil producing areas or further acts of terrorism in the U.S., or elsewhere. The drill rig business involves numerous operating hazards. Our drilling operations are subject to the usual hazards inherent in the drilling of oil and gas wells, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, punch-throughs, craterings, fires and natural disasters such as hurricanes and tropical storms could damage or destroy our drilling rigs. The occurrence of one or more of these events could result in the suspension of drilling operations, damage to or destruction of the equipment involved and injury or death to rig personnel. Operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, and failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. In addition, offshore drilling operations are subject to perils peculiar to marine operations, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. Damage to the environment could also result from our operations, particularly through oil spillage or extensive uncontrolled fires. We may also be subject to property, environmental and other damage claims by oil and gas companies. Similar to our vessel operating business our insurance policies and contractual rights to indemnity may not adequately cover losses, and we do not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks. 8 Our business has inherent operational risks, which may not be adequately covered by insurance. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, mechanical failures, human error, environmental accidents, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. In addition, transporting cargoes across a wide variety of international jurisdictions creates a risk of business interruptions due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities, labor strikes and boycotts, the potential for changes in tax rates or policies, and the potential for government expropriation of our vessels. Any of these events may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows to our customers, which could impair their ability to make payments to us under our charters. In the event of a casualty to a vessel or other catastrophic event, we will rely on our insurance to pay the insured value of the vessel or the damages incurred. Through the agreements with our vessel managers, we procure insurance for most of the vessels in our fleet employed under time charters against those risks that we believe the shipping industry commonly insures against. These insurances include marine hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which include pollution risks and crew insurances, and war risk insurance. Currently, the amount of coverage for liability for pollution, spillage and leakage available to us on commercially reasonable terms through protection and indemnity associations and providers of excess coverage is $1 billion per tanker per occurrence. We cannot assure you that we will be adequately insured against all risks. Our vessel managers may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our vessels in the future. For example, in the past more stringent environmental regulations have led to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. Additionally, our insurers may refuse to pay particular claims. For example, the circumstances of a spill, including non-compliance with environmental laws, could result in denial of coverage, protracted litigation and delayed or diminished insurance recoveries or settlements. Any significant loss or liability for which we are not insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Under the terms of our bareboat charters, the charterer is responsible for procuring all insurances for the vessel. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our customers or our cash flows. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt the cash flow of the charterer and/or the Company and require us to pay a significant amount of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against vessels in our fleet managed by our vessel managers for claims relating to another vessel managed by that manager. 9 Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency without adequate compensation, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner. Also, a government could requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. This amount could be materially less than the charterhire that would have been payable otherwise. In addition, we would bear all risk of loss or damage to a vessel under requisition for hire. As our fleet ages, the risks associated with older vessels could adversely affect our operations. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase as the vessel ages. Due to improvements in engine technology, older vessels are typically less fuel-efficient than more recently constructed vessels. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety, environmental or other equipment standards related to the age of tankers and other types of vessels may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our vessels to comply with safety or environmental laws or regulations that may be enacted in the future. These laws or regulations may also restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage or prohibit their operation in certain geographic regions. We cannot predict what alterations or modifications our vessels may be required to undergo as a result of requirements that may be promulgated in the future or that as our vessels age, market conditions will justify any required expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. There are risks associated with the purchase and operation of second-hand vessels. Our current business strategy includes additional growth through the acquisition of both newbuildings and second-hand vessels. Although we generally inspect second-hand vessels prior to purchase, this does not normally provide us with the same knowledge about the vessels’ condition that we would have had if such vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Therefore, our future operating results could be negatively affected if some of the vessels do not perform as we expect. Also, we do not receive the benefit of warranties from the builders if the vessels we buy are older than one year. Risks relating to our Company Changes in our dividend policy could adversely affect holders of our common shares. Any dividend that we declare is at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Although we have increased our dividend in prior quarters, our most recent dividend payment of $0.30 per share, was a fifty percent reduction from the prior quarter. While this does not constitute a change to our basic dividend policy, we cannot assure you that our dividend will not be reduced further or eliminated in the future. Our profitability and corresponding ability to pay dividends is substantially affected by amounts we receive through profit sharing payments from our charterers. Our entitlement to profit sharing payments, if any, is based on the financial performance of our vessels which is outside of our control. If our profit sharing payments decrease substantially, we may not be able to continue to pay dividends at present levels, or at all. We are also subject to contractual limitations on our ability to pay dividends pursuant to certain debt agreements, and we may agree to additional limitations in the future. Additional factors that could affect our ability to pay dividends include statutory and contractual limitations on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us, including under current or future debt arrangements. 10 We depend on our charterers and principally the Frontline Charterers and the Seadrill Charterers for our operating cash flows and for our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Most of the tanker vessels and oil/bulk/ore carriers, or OBOs, in our fleet are chartered to Frontline Shipping Limited, Frontline Shipping II Limited and Frontline Shipping III Limited, which we refer to collectively as the Frontline Charterers, subsidiaries of Frontline Ltd., or Frontline. In addition, we have chartered our five drilling units to four subsidiaries of Seadrill Limited, or Seadrill, namely Seadrill Invest I Limited, Seadrill Invest II Limited, Seadrill Deepwater Charterer Ltd. and Seadrill Polaris Ltd., which we refer to collectively as the Seadrill Charterers. Our other vessels that have charters attached to them are chartered to other customers under medium to long-term time and bareboat charters, except one which is on a short-term time charter until April 2009. The charter hire payments that we receive from our customers constitute substantially all of our operating cash flows. The Frontline Charterers have no business or sources of funds other than those related to the chartering of our tanker fleet to third parties. Frontline Shipping Limited, or Frontline Shipping, Frontline Shipping II Limited, or Frontline Shipping II, and Frontline Shipping III Limited, or Frontline Shipping III, have, at March 16 2009, charter service reserves of $155 million, $35 million and $26 million, respectively, which serves to support the Frontline Charterers’ obligations to make charterhire payments to us. Neither Frontline nor any of its affiliates guarantees the payment of charterhire or is obligated to contribute additional capital to the Frontline Charterers at any time. Although there are restrictions on the Frontline Charterers’ rights to use their cash to pay dividends or make other distributions, at any given time their available cash may be diminished or exhausted, and the Frontline Charterers may be unable to make charterhire payments to us. The performance under the charters with the Seadrill Charterers is guaranteed by Seadrill. If the Frontline Charterers, the Seadrill Charterers or any of our other charterers are unable to make charterhire payments to us, our results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected and we may not have cash available to pay debt service or for distributions to our shareholders. The amount of the profit sharing payment we receive under our charters with the Frontline Charterers, if any, and our ability to pay our ordinary quarterly dividend, may depend on prevailing spot market rates, which are volatile. Most of our tanker vessels and our OBOs operate under time charters to the Frontline Charterers. These charter contracts provide for base charterhire and additional profit sharing payments when the Frontline Charterers’ earnings from deploying our vessels exceed certain levels. The majority of our vessels chartered to the Frontline Charterers are sub-chartered by the Frontline Charterers in the spot market, which is subject to greater volatility than the long-term time charter market. Accordingly, the amount of profit sharing payments that we receive, if any, is primarily dependant on the strength of the spot market and we expect a softer spot tanker market in 2009 compared to 2008. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will receive any profit sharing payments for any periods in the future. Furthermore, our quarterly dividend may depend on the Company receiving profit sharing payments or require that we continue to expand our fleet, so that in either case we receive cash flows in addition to the cash flows we receive from our base charterhire from the Frontline Charterers and charter payments from other customers. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will continue to pay quarterly dividends. 11 The market values of our vessels and drilling units may decrease, which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow or trigger certain financial covenants under our current or future credit facilities and we may incur a loss if we sell vessels or drilling units following a decline in their market value. This could affect future dividend payments. During the period a vessel is subject to a charter, we will not be permitted to sell it to take advantage of increases in vessel values without the charterers’ agreement. Additionally, if the charterers were to default under the charters due to adverse market conditions, causing a termination of the charters, it is likely that the fair market value of our vessels would also be depressed. The fair market values of our vessels and drilling units have generally experienced high volatility. According to shipbrokers, the market prices for secondhand drybulk carriers, for example, have recently decreased sharply from their historically high levels. The fair market value of our vessels and drilling units may increase and decrease depending on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the prevailing level of charter rates and dayrates, general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping and offshore drilling industries, types and sizes of vessels and drilling units, supply of and demand for vessels and drilling units, availability of or developments in other modes of transportation, cost of newbuildings, governmental or other regulations and technological advances. In addition, as vessels and drilling units grow older, they generally decline in value. If the fair market value of our vessels and drilling units declines, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our credit facilities and we may not be able to refinance our debt, obtain additional financing or make distributions to our shareholders. Additionally, if we sell one or more of our vessels or drilling units at a time when vessel and drilling unit prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our consolidated financial statements, the sale price may be less than the vessel’s or drilling unit’s carrying value on our consolidated financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. Furthermore, if vessel and drilling unit values fall significantly, we may have to record an impairment adjustment in our financial statements, which could adversely affect our financial results and condition. We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. We enter into, among other things, charter parties with our customers, newbuilding contracts with shipyards, credit facilities with banks, interest rate swap agreements, total return bond swaps, and total return equity swaps. Such agreements subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the maritime and offshore industries, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, charter rates and dayrates received for specific types of vessels and drilling units, and various expenses. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our charterers and customers may no longer need a vessel or drilling unit that is currently under charter or contract or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel or drilling unit at a lower rate. As a result, charterers and customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing charter parties and drilling contracts or avoid their obligations under those contracts. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 12 Volatility in the international shipping and offshore markets may cause our customers to be unable to pay charterhire to us. Our customers are subject to volatility in the shipping market that affects their ability to operate the vessels they charter from us at a profit. Our customers’ successful operation of our vessels and rigs in the charter market will depend on, among other things, their ability to obtain profitable charters. We cannot assure you that future charters will be available to our customers at rates sufficient to enable them to meet their obligations to make charterhire payments to us. As a result, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected. These factors include: · global and regional economic and political conditions; · supply and demand for oil and refined petroleum products, which is affected by, among other things, competition from alternative sources of energy; · supply and demand for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; · developments in international trade; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances that cargoes are transported; · environmental concerns and regulations; · weather; · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · the phase-out of non-double hull tankers from certain markets pursuant to national and international laws and regulations; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; and · changes in production of crude oil, particularly by OPEC and other key producers. Tanker charter rates also tend to be subject to seasonal variations, with demand (and therefore charter rates) normally higher in winter months in the northern hemisphere. We depend on directors who are associated with affiliated companies which may create conflicts of interest. Currently, one of our directors, Kate Blankenship, is also a director of Frontline, Golden Ocean Group Limited, or Golden Ocean, and Seadrill, while another of our directors, Cecilie Fredriksen, is also a director of Golden Ocean. These companies and Deep Sea Supply Plc, or Deep Sea, are indirectly controlled by John Fredriksen, who also controls our principal shareholders Hemen Holding Ltd. and Farahead Investment Inc., which we refer to jointly as Hemen. These two directors owe fiduciary duties to the shareholders of each company and may have conflicts of interest in matters involving or affecting us and our customers. In addition, due to their ownership of Frontline, Golden Ocean, Deep Sea or Seadrill common shares, they may have conflicts of interest when faced with decisions that could have different implications for Frontline, Golden Ocean, Deep Sea or Seadrill than they do for us. We cannot assure you that any of these conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. 13 The agreements between us and affiliates of Hemen may be less favorable to us than agreements that we could obtain from unaffiliated third parties. The charters, management agreements, charter ancillary agreements and the other contractual agreements we have with companies affiliated with Hemen were made in the context of an affiliated relationship and were not necessarily negotiated in arm’s-length transactions. The negotiation of these agreements may have resulted in prices and other terms that are less favorable to us than terms we might have obtained in arm’s-length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties for similar services. Hemen and its associated companies’ business activities may conflict with ours. While Frontline has agreed to cause the Frontline Charterers to use their commercial best efforts to employ our vessels on market terms and not to give preferential treatment in the marketing of any other vessels owned or managed by Frontline or its other affiliates, it is possible that conflicts of interests in this regard will adversely affect us. Under our charter ancillary agreements with the Frontline Charterers and Frontline, we are entitled to receive annual profit sharing payments to the extent that the average time daily charter equivalent, or TCE, rates realized by the Frontline Charterers exceed specified levels. Because Frontline also owns or manages other vessels in addition to our fleet, which are not included in the profit sharing calculation, conflicts of interest may arise between us and Frontline in the allocation of chartering opportunities that could limit our fleet’s earnings and reduce the profit sharing payments or charterhire due under our charters. Our shareholders must rely on us to enforce our rights against our contract counterparties. Holders of our common shares and other securities have no direct right to enforce the obligations of the Frontline Charterers, Frontline Management (Bermuda) Ltd., which we refer to as Frontline Management, Frontline, Golden Ocean, Deep Sea and Seadrill or any of our other customers under the charters, or any of the other agreements to which we are party. Accordingly, if any of those counterparties were to breach their obligations to us under any of these agreements, our shareholders would have to rely on us to pursue our remedies against those counterparties. There is a risk that U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which would have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income,” but income from bareboat charters does constitute passive income. U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. 14 Under these rules, if our income from our time charters is considered to be passive rental income (rather than income from the performance of services), we will be considered to be a PFIC. However, our U.S. tax counsel, Seward & Kissel LLP, believes that it is more likely than not that our income from time charters will not be treated as passive rental income for purposes of determining whether we are a PFIC. Correspondingly, we believe that the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of such income do not constitute passive assets for purposes of determining whether we are a PFIC. Consequently, based upon our current method of operations and upon representations previously made by us, our U.S. tax counsel believes it is more likely than not that we will not be treated as a PFIC for our taxable years ending December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009. This position is principally based upon the positions that (1) our time charter income will constitute services income, rather than rental income and (2) Frontline Management, which provides services to most of our time-chartered vessels, will be respected as a separate entity from the Frontline Charterers, with which it is affiliated. For taxable years after 2009, depending upon the relative amounts of income we derive from our various assets as well as their relative fair market values, we may be treated as a PFIC. For example, the bareboat charters of our drillrigs may produce passive income and such drillrigs may be treated as assets held for the production of passive income. In such a case, depending upon the amount of income so generated and the fair market value of the drillrigs, we may be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year after 2009. We note that there is no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our current and proposed method of operation. In particular, there is no legal authority addressing the situation where the charterer of a majority of the vessels in a company’s fleet is affiliated with the technical management provider for a majority of the company’s vessels. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a significant risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Furthermore, even if we would not be a PFIC under the foregoing tests, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if the nature and extent of our operations were to change. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. tax consequences. For example, U.S. non-corporate shareholders would not be eligible for the 15% maximum tax rate on dividends that we pay, and other adverse tax consequences may arise. We may have to pay tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the U.S. may be subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations recently promulgated thereunder. We believe that we and each of our subsidiaries qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we will take this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source income. For example, Hemen owned 41.4% of our outstanding stock at March 16 2009. On or about April 17 2009, Hemen will receive approximately 1.6 million additional shares, as they elected to receive the dividend we issued for the fourth quarter of 2008 in newly issued common shares. This may result in an increase of Hemen’s ownership to approximately 42.7% of our outstanding stock, depending on the extent to which other shareholders elect to receive their dividend in the form of newly issued common shares. There is therefore a risk that we could no longer qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code for a particular taxable year if other shareholders with a five percent or greater interest in our stock were, in combination with Hemen, to own 50% or more of our outstanding shares of our stock on more than half the days during the taxable year. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. 15 If we, or our subsidiaries, are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, we, or our subsidiaries, could be subject for those years to an effective 4% U.S. federal income tax on the gross shipping income these companies derive during the year that are attributable to the transport of cargoes to or from the U.S. The imposition of this tax would have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. Our Liberian subsidiaries may not be exempt from Liberian taxation, which would materially reduce our Liberian subsidiaries’, and consequently our, net income and cash flow by the amount of the applicable tax. The Republic of Liberia enacted an income tax law generally effective as of January 1 2001, or the New Act, which repealed, in its entirety, the prior income tax law in effect since 1977, pursuant to which our Liberian subsidiaries, as non-resident domestic corporations, were wholly exempt from Liberian tax. In 2004 the Liberian Ministry of Finance issued regulations, or the New Regulations, pursuant to which a non-resident domestic corporation engaged in international shipping, such as our Liberian subsidiaries, will not be subject to tax under the New Act retroactive to January 1 2001. In addition, the Liberian Ministry of Justice issued an opinion that the New Regulations were a valid exercise of the regulatory authority of the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, assuming that the New Regulations are valid, our Liberian subsidiaries will be wholly exempt from tax as under prior law. If our Liberian subsidiaries were subject to Liberian income tax under the New Act, our Liberian subsidiaries would be subject to tax at a rate of 35% on their worldwide income. As a result, their, and subsequently our, net income and cash flow would be materially reduced by the amount of the applicable tax. In addition, we, as a shareholder of the Liberian subsidiaries, would be subject to Liberian withholding tax on dividends paid by the Liberian subsidiaries at rates ranging from 15% to 20%. If our long-term time or bareboat charters or management agreements with respect to our vessels employed on long-term time charters terminate, we could be exposed to increased volatility in our business and financial results, our revenues could significantly decrease and our operating expenses could significantly increase. If any of our charters terminate, we may not be able to re-charter those vessels on a long-term basis with terms similar to the terms of our existing charters, or at all. While the terms of our current charters for our tanker vessels to the Frontline Charterers end between 2013 and 2027, the Frontline Charterers have the option to terminate the charters of our non-double hull tanker vessels from 2010. Apart from the Front Vanadis and Front Sabang which are both subject to three and a half year hire-purchase contracts scheduled to expire in November 2010 and October 2011, respectively, and the Montemar Europa, which is on a charter due to expire in April 2009, the vessels in our fleet that have charters attached to them are generally contracted to expire between four and 18 years from now. However, we have granted some of our charterers purchase or early termination options that, if exercised, may effectively terminate our charters with these customers earlier. One or more of the charters with respect to our vessels may also terminate in the event of a requisition for title or a loss of a vessel. 16 In addition, under our vessel management agreements with Frontline Management, for a fixed management fee Frontline Management is responsible for all of the technical and operational management of the vessels chartered by the Frontline Charterers, and will indemnify us against certain loss of hire and various other liabilities relating to the operation of these vessels. We may terminate our management agreements with Frontline Management for any reason at any time on 90 days’ notice or that agreement may be terminated if the relevant charter is terminated. We expect to acquire additional vessels in the future and we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into similar fixed price management agreements with Frontline Management or another third party manager for those vessels. Therefore, to the extent that we acquire additional vessels, our cash flow could be more volatile and we could be exposed to increases in our vessel operating expenses, each of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and business. If the delivery of any of the vessels that we have agreed to acquire is delayed or are delivered with significant defects, our earnings and financial condition could suffer. As at March 16 2009, we have entered into agreements to acquire two additional Suezmax tankers and five additional container vessels. A delay in the delivery of any of these vessels or the failure of the contract counterparty to deliver any of these vessels could cause us to breach our obligations under related charter, financing and sales agreements that we have entered into, and could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. In addition, an acceptance of any of these vessels with substantial defects could have similar consequences. Certain of our vessels are subject to purchase options held by the charterer of the vessel, which, if exercised, could reduce the size of our fleet and reduce our future revenues. The market values of our vessels are expected to change from time to time depending on a number of factors, including general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry, competition, cost of vessel construction, governmental or other regulations, prevailing levels of charter rates, and technological changes. We have granted fixed price purchase options to certain of our customers with respect to the vessels they have chartered from us, and these prices may be less than the respective vessel’s market value at the time the option is exercised. In addition, we may not be able to obtain a replacement vessel for the price at which we sell the vessel. In such a case, we could incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. We may incur losses when we sell vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings. During the period a vessel is subject to a charter, we will not be permitted to sell it to take advantage of increases in vessel values without the charterers’ agreement. On the other hand, if the charterers were to default under the charters due to adverse market conditions, causing a termination of the charters, it is likely that the fair market value of our vessels would also be depressed. If we were to sell a vessel at a time when vessel prices have fallen, we could incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. A change in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. As of December 31 2008, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries had approximately $2.0 billion in floating rate debt outstanding under our credit facilities, and a further $1.8 billion in unconsolidated wholly-owned subsidiaries accounted for under the equity method. Although we use interest rate swaps to manage our interest rate exposure and have interest rate adjustment clauses in some of our chartering agreements, we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates. For a portion of our floating rate debt, if interest rates rise, interest payments on our floating rate debt that we have not swapped into effectively fixed rates would increase. 17 As of December 31 2008, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries have entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest on $1.2 billion of our outstanding indebtedness, and have also entered into interest rate swaps to fix the interest on $1.1 billion of the outstanding indebtedness of our unconsolidated subsidiaries. In addition we have entered into total return bond swaps in respect of $148 million of our 8.5% senior notes as of December 31 2008. The total return bond swaps effectively translate the underlying principal amount into floating rate debt. An increase in interest rates could cause us to incur additional costs associated with our debt service, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our maximum exposure to interest rate fluctuations on our outstanding debt and our outstanding total return bond swaps at December 31 2008, was approximately $1.7 billion, including our unconsolidated subsidiaries. A one percentage change in interest rates would at most increase or decrease interest expense by approximately $17 million per year as of December 31 2008. The maximum figure does not take into account that certain of our charter contracts include interest adjustment clauses, whereby the charter rate is adjusted to reflect the actual interest paid on the outstanding debt related to the assets on charter. At December 31 2008, $2.1 billion of our floating rate debt was subject to such interest adjustment clauses, including our equity-accounted subsidiaries. Of this, a total of $1.1 billion was subject to interest rate swaps, and the balance of $939 million remained on a floating rate basis. The interest rate swaps that have been entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries are derivative financial instruments that effectively translate floating rate debt into fixed rate debt. US GAAP requires that these derivatives be valued at current market prices in the Company’s financial statements, with increases or decreases in valuations reflected in results of operations or, if the instrument is designated as a hedge, in other comprehensive income. Changes in interest rates give rise to changes in the valuations of interest rate swaps and could adversely affect results of operations and other comprehensive income. We may have difficulty managing our planned growth properly. Since our original acquisitions from Frontline we have expanded and diversified our fleet, and we are performing certain administrative services through a wholly-owned subsidiary company. The growth in the size and diversity of our fleet will continue to impose additional responsibilities on our management, and may require us to increase the number of our personnel. We may need to increase our customer base in the future as we continue to grow our fleet. We cannot assure that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth. We are highly leveraged and subject to restrictions in our financing agreements that impose constraints on our operating and financing flexibility. We have significant indebtedness outstanding under our senior notes. We have also entered into loan facilities that we have used to refinance existing indebtedness and to acquire additional vessels. We may need to refinance some or all of our indebtedness on maturity of our senior notes or loan facilities and to acquire additional vessels in the future. We cannot assure you we will be able to do so on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we cannot refinance our indebtedness, we will have to dedicate some or all of our cash flows, and we may be required to sell some of our assets, to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. In such a case, we may not be able to pay dividends to our shareholders and may not be able to grow our fleet as planned. We may also incur additional debt in the future. 18 Our loan facilities and the indenture for our senior notes subject us to limitations on our business and future financing activities, including: · limitations on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, including issuance of additional guarantees; · limitations on incurrence of liens; · limitations on our ability to pay dividends and make other distributions; and · limitations on our ability to renegotiate or amend our charters, management agreements and other material agreements. Further, our loan facilities contain financial covenants that require us to, among other things: · provide additional security under the loan facility or prepay an amount of the loan facility as necessary to maintain the fair market value of our vessels securing the loan facility at not less than specified percentages (ranging from 100% to 140%) of the principal amount outstanding under the loan facility; · maintain available cash on a consolidated basis of not less than $25 million; · maintain positive working capital on a consolidated basis; and · maintain an adjusted book equity ratio of not less than 20%. Under the terms of our loan facilities, we may not make distributions to our shareholders if we do not satisfy these covenants or receive waivers from the lenders. We cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy these covenants in the future. Due to these restrictions, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders’ interests may be different from ours and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders’ permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. Our debt service obligations require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to required payments on indebtedness and could limit our ability to obtain additional financing, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, and carry out other general corporate activities in the future. These obligations may also limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the shipping industry or detract from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage to other less leveraged competitors. We have entered into total return swap transactions in respect of our shares and our 8.5% senior notes, and a decrease in the market price of our shares or our 8.5% senior notes could adversely affect our financial results. The Board of Directors of the Company has approved a share repurchase program of up to seven million shares, which is initially being financed through the use of total return equity swaps indexed to the Company’s own shares and maturing within 12 months. The Company has also entered into total return bond swaps, indexed to the Company’s 8.5% Senior Notes. Under both arrangements the counterparty acquires the Company’s shares or bonds, and the Company carries the risk of fluctuations in the price of the acquired shares or bonds. The settlement amount for each total return swap transaction will be (A) the proceeds on sale of the shares or bonds plus all dividends or interest received by the counterparty while holding the shares or bonds, less (B) the cost of purchasing the shares or bonds plus an agreed compensation for cost of carriage for the counterparty. Settlement will be either a payment from or to the counterparty, depending on whether (A) is more or less than (B). The fair value of each total return swap is recognized as an asset or liability, with the changes in fair values recognized in the consolidated statement of operations. As at March 16 2009 approximately 692,000 of our shares and $148 million of our 8.5% senior notes were held under these arrangements. Should the price of our shares or 8.5% senior notes fall materially below the level at which the shares or bonds were acquired, the total return swap mark to market valuations could adversely affect our results. 19 Risks Relating to Our Common Shares We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial and other obligations. We are a holding company, and have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries own all of our vessels, and payments under our charter agreements are made to our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of a subsidiary to make these distributions could be affected by a claim or other action by a third party or by the law of their respective jurisdiction of incorporation which regulates the payment of dividends by companies. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we will not be able to pay dividends to our shareholders. The market price of our common shares may be unpredictable and volatile. The market price of our common shares has been volatile. Since December 31, 2007 the closing market price of our common shares has ranged from a high of $32.43 per share on May 20, 2008 to a low of $4.05 per share on March 9, 2009. The market price of our common shares may continue to fluctuate due to factors such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry, the reduction of our latest dividend by fifty percent from the prior dividend, further changes in our dividend policy, mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry, market conditions in the shipping industry, changes in government regulation, shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts, announcements concerning us or our competitors and the general state of the securities market. The shipping industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for common shares in this industry may be equally volatile. Therefore, we cannot assure you that you will be able to sell any of our common shares you may have purchased at a price greater than or equal to its original purchase price. Future sales of our common shares could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. The market price of our common shares could decline due to sales of a large number of our shares in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. This could depress the market price of our common shares and make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate, or at all. In December 2008, we filed a prospectus supplement pursuant to which we may sell up to 7,000,000 common shares from time-to-time in the open market. We view this as a potential source of additional equity capital. The maximum number of shares issuable represents less than 10% of our outstanding shares, and to date no shares have been issued and sold. There is no specific deadline for the utilization of the prospectus supplement. Because we are a foreign corporation, you may not have the same rights that a shareholder in a U.S. corporation has. We are a Bermuda exempted company. Bermuda law may not as clearly establish your rights and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors as do statutes and judicial precedent in some U.S. jurisdictions. In addition, most of our directors and officers are not resident in the U.S. and the majority of our assets are located outside of the U.S. As a result, investors may have more difficulty in protecting their interests and enforcing judgments in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the U.S. 20 Our major shareholder, Hemen, may be able to influence us, including the outcome of shareholder votes with interests that may be different from yours. As of March 16 2009, Hemen owned approximately 41.4% of our outstanding common shares. On or about April 17 2009, Hemen will receive approximately 1.6 million additional shares, as they elected to receive the dividend we issued for the fourth quarter of 2008 in newly issued common shares. This may result in an increase of Hemen’s ownership to approximately 42.7% of our outstanding common shares, depending on the extent to which other shareholders elect to receive their dividend in the form of newly issued common shares. As a result of its ownership of our common shares, Hemen may influence our business, including the outcome of any vote of our shareholders. Hemen also currently beneficially owns substantial stakes in Frontline, Golden Ocean, Seadrill and Deep Sea. The interests of Hemen may be different from your interests. Investor confidence and the market price of our common stock may be adversely impacted if we are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires us to include in our annual report on Form 20-F our management’s report on, and assessment of the effectiveness of, our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, we will not be in compliance with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. Any failure to comply with Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. We believe the total cost of our initial compliance and the future ongoing costs of complying with these requirements may be substantial. ITEM 