Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our stock involves various risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in conjunction with the other information contained herein before purchasing our stock. The risks discussed herein can adversely affect our business, liquidity, operating results, and financial condition. This could cause the market price of our stock to decline and could cause you to lose all or part of your investment. The risk factors described below are not the only risks that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us also may adversely affect our business, liquidity, operating results, and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business Interest rate increases may increase our interest expense. As of December 31, 2006, approximately $89.7 million of our long-term debt, or 35%, was in variable interest rate loans. An increase in interest rates could increase the Company’s interest expense which in turn could negatively effect our earnings and ability to make shareholder distributions. Conflicts of interest could result in our management acting other than in our stockholders’ best interest. Conflicts of interest relating to Commonwealth Hotels, Inc. may lead to management decisions that are not in the stockholders’ best interest. The chairman of our board of directors, Mr. William P. Butler, serves as the chairman of the board of directors of Commonwealth. Mr. Butler owns 85% of Commonwealth. One of our directors, Mr. Thomas Banta, is also on Commonwealth’s board of directors and is employed by Corporex. Commonwealth manages nine of our hotels and may provide related services and continue to provide property management services, fee development services and occasional property identification services for third parties. Additionally, Mr. Butler, through his interests in Corporex and its affiliates, including Commonwealth, owns interests in or otherwise has an interest in the performance of several lodging properties that are not full-service and all-suites hotels and that are not owned or controlled by our operating partnership. Mr. Butler’s ownership interest in and management obligations to Commonwealth and Mr. Banta’s relationships with Commonwealth and Corporex will present them with conflicts of interest in making management decisions related to the commercial arrangements between us and Commonwealth. We have entered into 10-year management agreements with Commonwealth relating to nine of our hotels. Since Mr. Butler controls Commonwealth, the management agreements were not negotiated in arm’s length transactions. Each management agreement describes the terms of Commonwealth’s management of one of the hotels. Under certain circumstances, if we terminate a management agreement as to one of the hotels, we will be required to pay Commonwealth a potentially significant termination fee. As the majority owner of Commonwealth which would receive any development, management and management termination fees payable by us under the management agreements, Mr. Butler may influence our decisions to sell a hotel or acquire or develop a hotel when it is not in the best interests of our stockholders to do so. Commonwealth will have a right of first refusal to manage all hotels that we acquire in the future, unless the acquisition opportunity was not known to us and has been brought to us by another pre-qualified management company or a majority of our independent directors decides in good faith for valid business reasons to use another management company. As a result of his ownership interest in and management obligations to Commonwealth, Mr. Butler’s relationship with Commonwealth may present a conflict of interest in our decision to sell a hotel or acquire or develop a hotel. Holders of units in our operating partnership, including members of our management team, may suffer adverse tax consequences upon our sale or refinancing of certain properties. Therefore, holders of units, either directly or indirectly, including Messrs. Butler and Blackham, may have different objectives 11 Table of Contents than holders of our common stock regarding the appropriate pricing and timing of a property’s sale or timing and amount of a property’s refinancing. These officers and directors of ours may influence us not to sell or refinance certain properties, even if such sale or refinancing might be financially advantageous to our stockholders, or to enter into tax-deferred exchanges with the proceeds of such sales when such a reinvestment might not otherwise be in our best interest. Tax indemnification obligations, which apply in the event that we sell certain properties, could limit our operating flexibility. If we dispose of any of our initial nine hotels (other than the Embassy Suites Hotel Tampa-Airport/Westshore and the Hyatt Regency Rochester), we would be obligated to indemnify the original contributors (including their permitted transferees and persons who are taxable on the income of a contributor or permitted transferee) against certain tax consequences of the sale. We have agreed to pay a contributor’s tax liability with respect to gain allocated to the contributor under Section 704(c) of the Internal Revenue Code if we dispose of a property contributed by the contributor in a taxable transaction during a “protected period,” which continues until the earlier of: · 10 years after the contribution of such property; and · the date on which the contributor no longer owns, in the aggregate, at least 25% of the units we issued to the contributor at the time of its contribution of property to our operating partnership. This tax indemnity will be equal to the amount of the federal and state income tax liability the contributor incurs with respect to the gain allocated to the contributor upon such sale. The terms of the contribution agreements also require us to gross up the tax indemnity payment for the amount of income taxes due as a result of the tax indemnity payment. While the tax indemnities do not contractually limit our ability to conduct our business in the way we desire, we are less likely to sell any of the contributed properties in a taxable transaction during the indemnity period. Instead, we would either hold the property for the entire indemnity period or seek to transfer the property in a tax-deferred like-kind exchange. In addition, a condemnation of one of our properties could trigger our tax indemnification obligations. If we were to have sold in a taxable transaction all seven of the initial hotels contributed to us in exchange for operating partnership units immediately after the closing of the IPO, our estimated total tax indemnification obligation to our indemnified contributors, including the gross-up payment, would have ranged between $45 million and $75 million. In addition, under certain of the tax indemnification agreements, we have agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts during the protected period to make available to the contributors opportunities to guarantee liabilities of our operating partnership, which will allow the contributors to defer recognition of gain in connection with the contribution of these seven hotels. Hotel franchise requirements could increase our operating costs and lower our net income. We must comply with operating standards and terms and conditions imposed by the franchisors of the hotel brands under which our hotels, including any hotels we may acquire in the future, operate as well as any hotels we may acquire in the future. The franchisors periodically inspect their licensed hotels to confirm adherence to their operating standards. The failure of a hotel to maintain standards could result in the loss or cancellation of a franchise license. With respect to operational standards, we rely on our outside property managers to conform to such standards. The franchisors may also require us to make certain capital improvements to maintain the hotel in accordance with system standards, the costs of which can be substantial. It is possible that a franchisor could condition the continuation of a franchise on the completion of capital improvements that our management or board of directors determines are too expensive or otherwise not economically feasible in light of general economic conditions or the operating results or prospects of the affected hotel. In that event, our management or board of directors may elect to allow the franchise to lapse or be terminated, which could result in a change in branding or in the operation of the hotel as an independent, unbranded hotel. 12 Table of Contents In addition, when the term of a franchise expires, the franchisor has no obligation to issue a new franchise. The loss of a franchise could significantly decrease the revenues at the hotel and reduce the underlying value of the affected hotel due to the loss of associated name recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems provided by the franchisor. The loss of a franchise could also reduce our cash available for distribution to stockholders. Our returns depend on management of our hotels by third parties. In order to qualify as a REIT, we cannot operate our hotel properties or participate in the decisions affecting the daily operations of our hotels. Our TRS may not operate the leased hotels and, therefore, it must enter into management agreements with eligible independent contractors that are not our subsidiaries or otherwise controlled by us to manage the hotels. Thus, independent hotel operators, under management agreements with our TRS, control the daily operations of our hotels. Under the terms of the management agreements that we have with Commonwealth, Hyatt Corporation, Hilton Hotels Corporation and Prism Hotels our ability to participate in operating decisions regarding the hotels is limited. We will depend on these independent management companies to adequately operate our hotels on a daily basis as provided in the management agreements. Even if we believe our hotels are being operated inefficiently or in a manner that does not result in satisfactory occupancy rates, ADR, and RevPAR, we may not be able to force the management company to change its method of operation of our hotels. We can only seek redress if a management company violates the terms of the applicable management agreement with the TRS, and then only to the extent of the remedies provided for under the terms of the management agreement, which in the case of nine of our hotels were not negotiated on an arm’s length basis. Additionally, in the event that we need to replace any of our management companies, we may be required by the terms of the management agreement to pay substantial termination fees and may experience significant disruptions at the affected hotels. Furthermore, since Commonwealth manages nine of our hotels, any disruption in our relationship could result in lower revenues or higher operating costs, either of which would result in lower net income. Geographic concentration of our hotels makes our business vulnerable to economic downturns in Ohio, particularly in the Cincinnati metropolitan area. Five of our hotels are located in Ohio and Kentucky, three of which are located in the Cincinnati metropolitan area. Although our external growth strategy is focused on geographically diversifying our asset base, economic and real estate conditions in Ohio, particularly in Cincinnati, will significantly affect our revenues and the value of our hotels for the foreseeable future. Business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other similar factors may adversely affect the economic climate in Ohio. Any resulting oversupply or reduced demand for hotels in Ohio would therefore have a disproportionate negative impact on our revenues and limit our ability to make distributions to stockholders. We may be unable to generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses and to pay distributions to our stockholders. As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding net capital gain, each year to our stockholders. In the event of future downturns in our operating results and financial performance or unanticipated capital improvements to our hotels, including capital improvements which may be required by our franchisors, we may be unable to declare or pay distributions to our stockholders. The timing and amount of distributions are in the sole discretion of our board of directors, which will consider, among other factors, our financial performance, debt service obligations and debt covenant compliance and capital expenditure requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash to fund 13 Table of Contents distributions. Furthermore, if our operating performance suffers, our cash available for distribution could be less than 90% of our REIT taxable income. In this event, we would either be required to borrow funds to pay the distribution or lose our REIT status. Future debt service obligations could adversely affect our overall operating results, may require us to liquidate our properties, may jeopardize our tax status as a REIT and limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. At December 31, 2006, we have $253.5 million in consolidated debt. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt, including secured debt, in the future. Incurring debt could subject us to many risks, including the risks that: · our cash flow from operating activities will be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest; · our debt may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; · we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operating activities to payments on our debt, thereby reducing cash available for distribution to our stockholders, funds available for operations and capital expenditures, future business opportunities or other purposes; and · the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of the debt being refinanced. If we violate covenants in our indebtedness agreements, we could be required to repay all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity at a time when we might be unable to arrange financing for such repayment on attractive terms, if at all. If we incur or obtain debt in the future and do not have sufficient funds to repay our debt at maturity, it may be necessary to refinance this debt through additional debt financing, private or public offerings of debt securities, or additional equity financings. If, at the time of any refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates on refinancings, increases in interest expense would lower our cash flow, and, consequently, cash available for distribution to our stockholders. If we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we may be forced to dispose of hotels on disadvantageous terms, potentially resulting in losses that reduce cash flow from operating activities. We may place additional mortgages on our hotels to secure a line of credit that we expect to obtain prior to the closing of the offering or other debt. To the extent we cannot meet our debt service obligations, we risk losing some or all of those hotels to foreclosure. Also, covenants applicable to our debt could impair our planned strategies and, if violated, result in a default of our debt obligations, which could cause us to seek protection under the bankruptcy laws and likely would result in a total loss of a stockholder’s investment. Risks Related to Hotel Investments The hotel business is capital intensive, and our inability to obtain financing could limit our growth. Our hotel properties will require periodic capital expenditures and renovation to remain competitive. The lenders under some of our mortgage debt agreements require us to set aside varying amounts each year for capital improvements at our hotels. Acquisitions or development of additional hotel properties will require significant capital expenditures. We may not be able to fund capital improvements or acquisitions solely from cash provided from our operating activities because we must distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year to maintain our REIT tax status. Consequently, we will rely upon the availability of debt or equity capital to fund hotel acquisitions and improvements. As a result, our ability to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions or hotel development through retained earnings will be limited. Our ability to grow through acquisitions or development of hotels will be limited if we cannot obtain satisfactory debt or equity 14 Table of Contents financing, which will depend on market conditions. Neither our charter nor our bylaws limits the amount of debt that we can incur. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional equity or debt financing or that we will be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms. Uninsured and underinsured losses could reduce our net income and limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We intend to maintain comprehensive insurance on each of our hotels, including liability, fire and extended coverage, of the type and amount we believe are customarily obtained for or by hotel owners. There are no assurances that current coverage will continue to be available at reasonable rates. In addition, there are certain types of losses that management, such as flood or hurricane insurance, may decide not to insure against since the cost of insuring is not economical. The Company may suffer losses that exceed its insurance coverage, particularly to the extent any of our policies do not cover 100% of the replacement cost. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more hotels in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: · adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; · changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of debt financing; · changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning and other ordinances and costs of compliance with laws and regulations; · the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures; · changes in operating expenses; and · civil unrest, terrorism, acts of war and natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses. We may decide to sell our hotels in the future. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. In acquiring a property, we may agree to lock-out provisions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property or an indemnification of adverse tax consequences to sellers. We have entered into such agreements with respect to seven of initial hotels with the contributors of those hotels. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could reduce our net income and limit our ability to pay distributions to stockholders. The costs of compliance with or liabilities under environmental laws may harm our operating results. Our hotels may be subject to environmental liabilities. An owner of real property can face liability for environmental contamination created by the presence or discharge of hazardous substances on the property. We may face liability regardless of: · our knowledge of the contamination; · the timing of the contamination; 15 Table of Contents · the cause of the contamination; or · the party responsible for the contamination of the property. We have reviewed Phase I environmental reports for all of our hotels. Most of these Phase I environmental reports were conducted within the last eight years, though we have relied upon older Phase I environmental reports for some of our hotels. These Phase I environmental reports do not protect us as the purchaser of the properties from liabilities under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or “CERCLA.” Although none of these Phase I environmental reports identified any material contamination at any of our hotels, with the exception of the Embassy Suites Boston, the Phase I environmental reports do not identify potential unknown material environmental liabilities. The Embassy Suites Boston, which we purchased on July 21, 2006, was originally constructed by a prior owner on a site with known environmental contamination. In connection with the acquisition, we hired an environmental engineer to review the original work and received certification from the original environmental engineer that all work was completed per the requirements of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection Agency. A series of reports with the final report dated July 2003 indicates that proper remedial efforts had been undertaken during the development of the hotel and that no additional actions were required to be taken. However, no assurances can be provided that we will not be required to undertake remedial efforts in the future to address unknown environmental problems at this hotel or any of our other hotels. Any such expenses would reduce our net operating income and adversely affect our cash available for distributions. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may cause a decline in the value of that property and we may incur substantial remediation costs. The discovery of environmental liabilities attached to our properties could increase our operating costs and limit our ability to pay distributions to stockholders. Our hotels may unknowingly contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing, as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property, which would reduce our cash available for distribution. In addition, the presence of significant mold could expose us to liability from our guests, employees of ours or of our property managers and others if property damage or health concerns arise. Actions by organized labor could increase our hotel management expenses. Employees of third-party hotel management companies that we have contracts with to manage our hotels in certain locations have been approached by members of local organized labor constituencies. Potential labor activities at these hotels could increase the administrative, labor and legal expenses of the third-party hotel management companies managing these hotels. Any additional expenses related to potential union activities could in turn increase the reimbursements to the management companies pursuant to the terms of the contracts we have with those management companies. In addition, potential labor activities could cause the diversion of business to hotels that are not involved in similar labor activities resulting in the loss of group business in the affected cities. Any of these potential consequences to labor activities could result in lower revenues or higher operating costs, either of which would result in lower net income. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT If we do not qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to tax as a regular corporation and face substantial tax liability. We operate so as to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. However, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only a limited number of judicial or administrative interpretations exist. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any tax year, then: · we would be taxed as a regular domestic corporation, which, among other things, means being unable to deduct distributions to stockholders in computing taxable income and being subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; · any resulting tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders; and · unless we were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the subsequent four taxable years following the year during which we lost our qualification, and, thus, our cash available for distribution to stockholders would be reduced for each of the years during which we did not qualify as a REIT. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets. For example: · We will be required to pay tax on undistributed REIT taxable income. · We may be required to pay “alternative minimum tax” on our items of tax preference. · If we have net income from the disposition of foreclosure property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or other non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, we must pay tax on that income at the highest corporate rate. · If we sell a property in a “prohibited transaction,” our gain from the sale would be subject to a 100% penalty tax. A “prohibited transaction” would be a sale of property, other than a foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. · Our TRS is a fully taxable corporation and will be required to pay federal and state taxes on its income, which will consist of the revenues from the hotels leased from the operating partnership, net of the operating expenses for such hotels and rent payments to us. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of generating strong risk-adjusted returns on invested capital for our stockholders. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT, we must also ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate 17 Table of Contents assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 20% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to borrow to make distributions to stockholders. As a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding net capital gain) to our stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our net income for financial reporting purposes, or our taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or find another alternative source of funds to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce the market price of our common stock. Risk Factors Related to Our Corporate Structure There are no assurances of our ability to make distributions in the future. We intend to make quarterly distributions to our stockholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments, is distributed. This, along with other factors, should enable us to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. However, our ability to pay distributions may be adversely affected by the risk factors described herein. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. There are no assurances of our ability to pay distributions in the future. In addition, some of our distributions may include a return of capital. Because provisions contained in Maryland law and our charter may have an anti-takeover effect, investors may be prevented from receiving a “control premium” for their shares. Provisions contained in our charter and Maryland general corporation law may have effects that delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt, which may prevent stockholders from receiving a “control premium” for their shares. For example, these provisions may defer or prevent tender offers for our common stock or purchases of large blocks of our common stock, thereby limiting the opportunities for our stockholders to receive a premium for their common stock over then-prevailing market prices. These provisions include the following: · Ownership limit: The ownership limit in our charter limits related investors, including, among other things, any voting group, from acquiring over 9.8% of our common stock without our permission. · Preferred stock: Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more classes and to establish the preferences and rights of any class of preferred stock issued. 18 Table of Contents These actions can be taken without soliciting stockholder approval. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us, even if a change in control were in our stockholders’ best interests. Maryland statutory law provides that an act of a director relating to or affecting an acquisition or a potential acquisition of control of a corporation may not be subject to a higher duty or greater scrutiny than is applied to any other act of a director. Hence, directors of a Maryland corporation may not be required to act in takeover situations under the same standards as apply in Delaware and other corporate jurisdictions. Preferred stock or future offerings of debt securities, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, or equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of distributions, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. On June 13, 2005 we issued 4,000,000 shares of 8 1/4% Series A Cumulative Preferred stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of debt or equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes and additional classes of preferred stock or common stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Our preferred stock, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability to make a distribution to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their stock holdings in us. Common stock eligible for future sale may cause our share price to decline. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of common stock, or the availability of common stock for future sales, on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including more than 6,000,000 shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of operating partnership units), or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We also may issue from time to time additional shares of common stock or units of our operating partnership in connection with the acquisition of hotels, and we expect to grant demand or piggyback registration rights in connection with these issuances. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or the perception that these sales could occur may have the effect of putting downward pressure on the prevailing market price for our common stock or may impair our ability to raise capital through a sale of additional equity securities. We depend on key personnel with long-standing business relationships, the loss of whom could threaten our ability to operate our business successfully. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued services of our management team. In particular, the lodging industry experience of Mr. Butler, our non-executive chairman, Mr. Blackham, our chief executive officer, Mr. Martz, our chief financial officer, Mr. Guernier, our senior vice-president acquisitions and the extent and nature of the relationships they have developed with hotel franchisors, operators and owners and hotel lending and other financial institutions are critically important to the success of our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our officers. 19 Table of Contents Although these officers currently have employment agreements with us, we cannot assure you of the continued employment of all of our officers. The loss of services of one or more members of our corporate management team would limit our ability to acquire additional hotels and could result in increased operating costs. The ability of our board of directors to change our major corporate policies may not be in your interest. Our board of directors determines our major corporate policies, including our acquisition, financing, growth, operations and distribution policies. Our board may amend or revise these and other policies from time to time without the vote or consent of our stockholders. Our Chairman and his affiliates beneficially own approximately 20% of our common stock on a fully diluted basis and exercise significant control over our company and may delay, defer or prevent us from taking actions that would be beneficial to our other stockholders. William P. Butler, our Chairman, and his affiliates own approximately 20% of the outstanding shares of our common stock on a fully diluted basis. Accordingly, Mr. Butler may be able to exercise significant control over the outcome of substantially all matters required to be submitted to our stockholders for approval, including decisions relating to the election of our board of directors and the determination of our day-to-day corporate and management policies. In addition, Mr. Butler is able to exercise significant control over the outcome of any proposed merger or consolidation of our company, which would require the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Mr. Butler’s ownership interest in our company may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire control of our company, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 