ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following discussion of risk factors may be important to understanding the statements in this annual report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with “Part II—Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in this annual report on Form 10-K. Discussions about the important operational risks that our business encounters can be found in “Part II—Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. On August 17, 2009, we restated our financial statements for the years ended 2006, 2007 and 2008 and the first quarter of 2009. Thereafter, the SEC commenced an investigation into the facts and circumstances of the restatement, the United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Illinois (“USAO”) requested certain documents related to the restatement and plaintiffs brought a purported private shareholder class action litigation and derivative litigation with respect to the restatement (the “restatement matters”). The restatement matters, together with the reputational issues raised by the restatement, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, cash flow, overall liquidity, results of operations or financial condition. We restated certain of our previously-issued financial statements to correct our accounting for certain acquisition-related payments received by the selling shareholders of specific businesses we acquired that were subsequently redistributed by the selling shareholders among themselves and to other select Company employees. The restatement and the restatement matters have raised reputational issues for our businesses and may adversely impact our ability to: • retain our senior management team, our practice leaders and our other managing directors; • hire and retain talented people in an industry where there is great competition for talent; • maintain our existing business practices and revenues given our clients’ ability to terminate their engagement agreements with little or no notice and without penalty; • attract new business in the highly competitive consulting services industry; and • continue our growth strategy by hiring individuals or groups of individuals and by acquiring complementary businesses. The SEC is conducting an investigation with respect to the restatement. In addition, as often happens in these circumstances, shortly after the filing of our restated financial statements, the USAO contacted our counsel and made a telephonic request for copies of certain documents that we previously provided to the SEC. Further, several purported private shareholder class action lawsuits, since consolidated, and derivative lawsuits have been filed in respect of the restatement. On December 6, 2010, we reached an agreement in principle with the Lead Plaintiffs to settle the purported class action lawsuit (the “Class Action Settlement”), pursuant to which the plaintiffs will receive total consideration of approximately $39.6 million, comprised of $27.0 million in cash and the issuance by the Company of 474,547 shares of our common stock (“Settlement Shares”). The Settlement Shares had an aggregate value of approximately $12.6 million based on the closing market price of our common stock on December 31, 2010. As a result of the Class Action Settlement, we recorded a non-cash charge to earnings in the fourth quarter of 2010 of $12.6 million representing the fair value of the Settlement Shares and a corresponding settlement liability. We will adjust the amount of the non-cash charge and corresponding settlement liability to reflect changes in the fair value of the Settlement Shares until and including the date of issuance, which may result in either additional non-cash charges or non-cash gains. As of December 31, 2010, in accordance with the proposed settlement, we also recorded a receivable for the cash portion of the consideration, which was funded into escrow in its entirety by our insurance carriers, and a corresponding settlement liability. There was no impact to our Consolidated Statement of Operations for the cash consideration as we concluded that a right of setoff existed in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 210-20-45, “Other Presentation Matters”. The total amount of insurance coverage under the related policy was $35.0 million and the insurers had previously paid out approximately $8.0 million in claims prior to the final $27.0 million payment discussed above. As a result of the final payment by the insurance carriers, we will not receive any further contributions from our insurance carriers for the reimbursement of legal fees expended on the finalization 7 Table of Contents of the Class Action Settlement or any amounts (including any damages, settlement costs or legal fees) with respect to the remaining restatement matters. The proposed Class Action Settlement received preliminary court approval on January 21, 2011 and is subject to final court approval, and the issuance of the Settlement Shares. A Fairness Hearing is currently scheduled to consider the final approval of the settlement on May 6, 2011. The issuance of the Settlement Shares is expected to occur after final court approval is granted. There can be no assurance that final court approval will be granted. Additionally, the Company has the right to terminate the settlement if class members representing more than a specified amount of alleged securities losses elect to opt out of the settlement. While we are fully cooperating with the SEC in its investigations with respect to the restatement, have voluntarily provided to the USAO the requested documents, and intend to vigorously defend the restatement lawsuits, the restatement matters subject us to a number of additional risks, including: • the diversion of management’s time, attention and resources from managing and marketing our Company; • increased costs and expenses to address the restatement matters and the imposition of fines, penalties, damages, administrative remedies and liabilities for additional amounts resulting from actions or findings by the SEC or the USAO or pursuant to rulings, orders or judgments by the courts with jurisdiction over the restatement lawsuits, none of which will be covered by our insurance carriers if the class action settlement becomes final; and • additional damage to our reputation as these matters are concluded that may further heighten the risks described above. Given the uncertain nature of the restatement matters and the uncertainties related to the incurrence and amount of loss, including with respect to the imposition of fines, penalties, damages, administrative remedies and liabilities for additional amounts, with respect to the restatement matters, we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of the restatement matters, determine whether any additional liability other than those described above has been incurred or make a reasonable estimate of the liability that could result from an unfavorable outcome in the restatement matters. Any such additional liability could be material. The failure to successfully address any one or more of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, cash flow, overall liquidity, results of operations or financial condition. An inability to retain our senior management team and other managing directors would be detrimental to the success of our business. We rely heavily on our senior management team, our practice leaders, and other managing directors; and our ability to retain them is particularly important to our future success. Given the highly specialized nature of our services, the senior management team must have a thorough understanding of our service offerings as well as the skills and experience necessary to manage an organization consisting of a diverse group of professionals. In addition, we rely on our senior management team and other managing directors to generate and market our business. Further, our senior management’s and other managing directors’ personal reputations and relationships with our clients are a critical element in obtaining and maintaining client engagements. Although we enter into non-solicitation agreements with our senior management team and other managing directors, we generally do not enter into non-competition agreements. Accordingly, members of our senior management team and our other managing directors are not contractually prohibited from leaving or joining one of our competitors, and some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. If one or more members of our senior management team or our other managing directors leave and we cannot replace them with a suitable candidate quickly, we could experience difficulty in securing and successfully completing engagements and managing our business properly, which could harm our business prospects and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Our inability to hire and retain talented people in an industry where there is great competition for talent could have a serious negative effect on our prospects and results of operations. Our business involves the delivery of professional services and is highly labor-intensive. Our success depends largely on our general ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled professionals. Further, we must successfully maintain the right mix of professionals with relevant experience and skill sets as we continue to grow, as we expand into new service offerings, and as the market evolves. The loss of a significant number of our professionals, the inability to attract, hire, develop, train and retain additional skilled personnel, or not maintaining the right mix of professionals could have a serious negative effect on us, including our ability to manage, staff and successfully complete our existing engagements and obtain new engagements. Qualified professionals are in great demand, and we face significant competition for both senior and junior professionals with the requisite credentials and experience. Our principal competition for talent comes from other consulting firms, accounting firms and technical and economic advisory firms, as well as from organizations seeking to staff their internal professional positions. Many of these competitors may be able to offer significantly greater compensation and benefits or more attractive lifestyle choices, career paths or geographic locations than we do. Therefore, we may not be successful in attracting and retaining the skilled consultants we require to conduct and expand our operations successfully. Increasing competition for these revenue-generating professionals may also significantly increase our labor costs, which could negatively affect our margins and results of operations. Additional hiring, departures, business acquisitions and dispositions could disrupt our operations, increase our costs or otherwise harm our business. Our business strategy is dependent in part upon our ability to grow by hiring individuals or groups of individuals and by acquiring complementary businesses. However, we may be unable to identify, hire, acquire or successfully integrate new employees and acquired businesses without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial obstacles. From time to time, we will evaluate the total mix of services we provide and we may conclude that businesses may not achieve the promise we previously expected. For example, effective December 31, 2009, we disposed of our strategy business, in the second quarter of 2010 we wound down our Japan operations, and in the third quarter of 2010 we exited the Disputes and Investigations practice and utilities consulting practice. Competition for future hiring and acquisition opportunities in our markets could increase the compensation we offer to potential employees or the prices we pay for businesses we wish to acquire. In addition, we may be unable to achieve the financial, operational and other benefits we anticipate from any hiring or acquisition, as well as any disposition, including those we have completed so far. New acquisitions could also negatively impact existing practices and cause current employees to depart. Hiring additional employees or acquiring businesses could also involve a number of additional risks, including: • the diversion of management’s time, attention and resources from managing and marketing our company; • the failure to retain key acquired personnel or existing personnel who may view the acquisition unfavorably; • potential impairment of existing relationships with our clients, such as client satisfaction or performance problems, whether as a result of integration or management difficulties or otherwise; • the need to compensate new employees while they wait for their restrictive covenants with other institutions to expire; • the creation of conflicts of interest that require us to decline or resign from engagements that we otherwise could have accepted; • the potential need to raise significant amounts of capital to finance a transaction or the potential issuance of equity securities that could be dilutive to our existing stockholders; • increased costs to improve, coordinate or integrate managerial, operational, financial and administrative systems; • the usage of earn-outs based on the future performance of our business acquisitions may deter the acquired company from fully integrating into our existing business; 9 Table of Contents • a decision not to fully integrate an acquired business may lead to the perception of inequalities if different groups of employees are eligible for different benefits and incentives or are subject to different policies and programs; • difficulties in integrating diverse backgrounds and experiences of consultants, including if we experience a transition period for newly hired consultants that results in a temporary drop in our utilization rates or margins; and • the adverse short-term effects on reported operating results from the amortization or write-off of acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. Moreover, selling practices and shutting down operations present similar challenges in a service business. Divestitures not only require management’s time, but they can impair existing relationships with clients or otherwise affect client satisfaction, particularly in situations where the divestiture eliminates only part of the compliment of consulting services provided to a client. If we fail to successfully address these risks, our ability to compete may be impaired. If we are unable to manage fluctuations in our business successfully, we may not be able to sustain profitability. We have grown significantly since we commenced operations, increasing the number of our full-time professionals from 249 as of May 31, 2002 to 1,757 as of December 31, 2010. Additionally, our considerable growth and the circumstances of the restatement has placed demands on our management and our internal systems, procedures and controls and will continue to do so in the near future. To successfully manage growth and respond to the events described above, we must periodically adjust and strengthen our operating, financial, accounting and other systems, procedures and controls, which could increase our costs and may adversely affect our gross profits and our ability to sustain profitability if we do not generate increased revenues to offset the costs. As a public company, our information and control systems must enable us to prepare accurate and timely financial information and other required disclosures. If we discover deficiencies in our existing information and control systems that impede our ability to satisfy our reporting requirements, we must successfully implement improvements to those systems in an efficient and timely manner. Our business is becoming increasingly dependent on information technology and will require additional investments in order to grow and implement redundancies necessary to prevent service interruption. We depend on the use of sophisticated technologies and systems. Some of our practices provide services that are increasingly dependent on the use of software applications and systems that we do not own and could become unavailable. Moreover, our technology platforms will require continuing investments by us, in order to expand existing service offerings and develop complimentary services. A portion of our business, in which we utilize third party software technology, has grown over the last few years and now represents a substantial portion of our total revenues. One of our service lines has made and expects to continue to make investments in technology-driven businesses that compliment its service offerings. Our future success depends on our ability to adapt our services and infrastructure while continuing to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services in response to the evolving demands of the marketplace. Additionally, our organization is comprised of employees who work on matters throughout the United States and overseas. Our technology platform is a “virtual office” from which we all operate. We may be subject to disruption to our operating systems from technology events that our beyond our control, which may produce service interruptions that in turn result in loss or liability to us. The Company will need to continue to invest in technology in order to meet the developing demands of our clients and achieve redundancies necessary to prevent service interruptions. Our reputation could be damaged and we could incur additional liabilities if we fail to protect client and employee data through our own accord or if our information systems are breached. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our clients, partners, and employees. The breadth and complexity of this infrastructure increases the potential risk of security breaches which could lead to potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. 10 Table of Contents In providing services to clients, we may manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or employee data, including personal data. As a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other personally identifiable information and international laws such the European Union Directive on Data Protection. These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client or employee data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines, and/or criminal prosecution. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Our international expansion could result in additional risks. We operate both domestically and internationally, including in the Middle East, Europe and Asia. Although historically our international operations have been limited, we intend to continue to expand internationally. Such expansion may result in additional risks that are not present domestically and which could adversely affect our business or our results of operations, including: • compliance with additional U.S. regulations and those of other nations applicable to international operations; • cultural and language differences; • employment laws and rules and related social and cultural factors; • currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, which is harder to predict in the current adverse global economic climate; • restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • different regulatory requirements and other barriers to conducting business; • different or less stable political and economic environments; • greater personal security risks for employees traveling to unstable locations; and • civil disturbances or other catastrophic events. Further, conducting business abroad subjects us to increased regulatory compliance and oversight, in particular with respect to operations in the Middle East. A failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial penalties assessed against the Company and our employees. Political turmoil could affect the physical security of our employees working in a troubled country. 11 Table of Contents Our obligations under the Credit Agreement are secured by a pledge of certain of the equity interests in our subsidiaries and a lien on substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiary grantors. If we default on these obligations, our lenders may foreclose on our assets, including our pledged equity interest in our subsidiaries. On September 30, 2009, we entered into the Security Agreement in connection with our entry into the eighth amendment to the Revolving Credit and Term Loan Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”). Pursuant to the Security Agreement and to secure our obligations under the Credit Agreement, we granted our lenders a first-priority lien, subject to permitted liens, on substantially all of the personal property assets that we and the subsidiary grantors own. This first-priority lien is in addition to the existing pledge (the “Equity Pledge”) that we previously granted to our lenders of 100% of the voting stock or other equity interests in our domestic subsidiaries and 65% of the voting stock or other equity interests in our foreign subsidiaries. If we default on our obligations under the Credit Agreement, our lenders could accelerate our indebtedness and may be able to exercise their liens on the equity interests subject to the Equity Pledge and on their liens on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiary grantors, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and obligations, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt, and could adversely affect our financial results. At December 31, 2010, we had outstanding borrowings totaling $257.0 million compared to $219.0 million at December 31, 2009. Our substantial indebtedness could have meaningful consequences for us, including: • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because our borrowings are at variable interest rates; • requiring us to dedicate a larger portion of our cash from operations to service our indebtedness and thus reducing the level of cash for other purposes such as funding working capital, strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes; and • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing. Our intellectual property rights in our “Huron Consulting Group” name are important, and any inability to use that name could negatively impact our ability to build brand identity. We believe that establishing, maintaining and enhancing the “Huron Consulting Group” name is important to our business. We are, however, aware of a number of other companies that use names containing “Huron.” There could be potential trade name or service mark infringement claims brought against us by the users of these similar names and marks and those users may have trade name or service mark rights that are senior to ours. If another company were to successfully challenge our right to use our name, or if we were unable to prevent a competitor from using a name that is similar to our name, our ability to build brand identity could be negatively impacted. Our financial results could suffer if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and suitable billing rates for our consultants. Our profitability depends to a large extent on the utilization and billing rates of our professionals. Utilization of our professionals is affected by a number of factors, including: • the number and size of client engagements; • the timing of the commencement, completion and termination of engagements, which in many cases is unpredictable; • our ability to transition our consultants efficiently from completed engagements to new engagements; 12 Table of Contents • the hiring of additional consultants because there is generally a transition period for new consultants that results in a temporary drop in our utilization rate; • unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements; • our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate level of consultants; and • conditions affecting the industries in which we practice as well as general economic conditions. The billing rates of our consultants that we are able to charge are also affected by a number of factors, including: • our clients’ perception of our ability to add value through our services; • the market demand for the services we provide; • an increase in the number of clients in the government sector; • introduction of new services by us or our competitors; • our competition and the pricing policies of our competitors; and • current economic conditions. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate overall utilization as well as maintain or increase the billing rates for our consultants, our financial results could materially suffer. Expanding our service offerings or number of offices may not be profitable. We may choose to develop new service offerings, open new offices or eliminate service offerings because of market opportunities or client demands. Developing new service offerings involves inherent risks, including: • our inability to estimate demand for the new service offerings; • competition from more established market participants; • a lack of market understanding; and • unanticipated expenses to recruit and hire qualified consultants and to market our new service offerings. In addition, expanding into new geographic areas and expanding current service offerings is challenging and may require integrating new employees into our culture as well as assessing the demand in the applicable market. If we cannot manage the risks associated with new service offerings or new locations effectively, we are unlikely to be successful in these efforts, which could harm our ability to sustain profitability and our business prospects. Our ability to maintain and attract new business depends upon our reputation, the professional reputation of our revenue-generating employees and the quality of our services. As a professional services firm, our ability to secure new engagements depends heavily upon our reputation and the individual reputations of our professionals. Any factor that diminishes our reputation or that of our employees, including not meeting client expectations or misconduct by our employees, could make it substantially more difficult for us to attract new engagements and clients. Similarly, because we obtain many of our new engagements from former or current clients or from referrals by those clients or by law firms that we have worked with in the past, any client that questions the quality of our work or that of our consultants could impair our ability to secure additional new engagements and clients. 13 Table of Contents The profitability of our fixed-fee engagements with clients may not meet our expectations if we underestimate the cost of these engagements. When making proposals for fixed-fee engagements, we estimate the costs and timing for completing the engagements. These estimates reflect our best judgment regarding the efficiencies of our methodologies and consultants as we plan to deploy them on engagements. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of fixed-fee engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable, which would have an adverse effect on our profit margin. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, fixed-fee engagements represented 38.9%, 37.0% and 32.1%, respectively, of our revenues. Revenues from our performance-based engagements are difficult to predict, and the timing and extent of recovery of our costs is uncertain. We have engagement agreements under which our fees include a significant performance-based component. Performance-based fees are contingent on the achievement of specific measures, such as our clients meeting cost-saving or other contractually defined goals. The achievement of these contractually-defined goals is subject to acknowledgement by the client and is often impacted by factors outside of our control, such as the actions of the client or other third parties. Because performance-based fees are contingent, revenues on such engagements, which are recognized when all revenue recognition criteria are met, are not certain and the timing of receipt is difficult to predict and may not occur evenly throughout the year. As expected, due to Stockamp & Associates, Inc., a consulting firm that we acquired in the third quarter of 2008 and which has a large number of performance-based fee engagements, the percentage of performance-based fee engagements has increased, increasing the percentage of our revenues derived from performance-based fees to 10.8% for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 15.5% for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to 5.5% for the year ended December 31, 2008. A greater number of performance-based fee arrangements may result in increased volatility in our working capital requirements and greater variations in our quarter-to-quarter results, which could affect the price of our common stock. In addition, an increase in the proportion of performance-based fee arrangements may temporarily offset the positive effect on our operating results from an increase in our utilization rate until the related revenues are recognized. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from a limited number of clients, and our engagement agreements, including those related to our largest clients, can be terminated by our clients with little or no notice and without penalty, which may cause our operating results to be unpredictable. As a consulting firm, we have derived, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of clients. Our ten largest clients accounted for approximately 32.1%, 30.7% and 23.9% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. No single client accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in 2010, 2009 or 2008. Our clients typically retain us on an engagement-by-engagement basis, rather than under fixed-term contracts; the volume of work performed for any particular client is likely to vary from year to year and a major client in one fiscal period may not require or decide not to use our services in any subsequent fiscal period. Moreover, a large portion of our new engagements comes from existing clients. Accordingly, the failure to obtain new large engagements or multiple engagements from existing or new clients could have a material adverse effect on the amount of revenues we generate. In addition, almost all of our engagement agreements can be terminated by our clients with little or no notice and without penalty. For example, in engagements related to litigation, if the litigation were to be settled, our engagement for those services would no longer be necessary and, therefore, would be terminated. In client engagements that involve multiple engagements or stages, there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages of an engagement or that a client will cancel or delay additional planned engagements. For clients in bankruptcy, a bankruptcy court could elect not to retain our interim management consultants, terminate our retention, require us to reduce our fees for the duration of an engagement, or approve claims against fees earned by us prior to or after the bankruptcy filing. Terminations of engagements, cancellations of portions of the project plan, delays in the work schedule or reductions in fees could result from factors unrelated to our services. When engagements are terminated or reduced, we lose the associated future revenues, and we may not be able to recover associated costs or redeploy the affected employees in a timely manner to 14 Table of Contents minimize the negative impact. In addition, our clients’ ability to terminate engagements with little or no notice and without penalty makes it difficult to predict our operating results in any particular fiscal period. Our engagements could result in professional liability, which could be very costly and hurt our reputation. Our engagements typically involve complex analyses and the exercise of professional judgment. As a result, we are subject to the risk of professional liability. If a client questions the quality of our work, the client could threaten or bring a lawsuit to recover damages or contest its obligation to pay our fees. Litigation alleging that we performed negligently or breached any other obligations to a client could expose us to significant legal liabilities and, regardless of outcome, is often very costly, could distract our management and could damage our reputation. We are not always able to include provisions in our engagement agreements that are designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services. Even if these limiting provisions are included in an engagement agreement, they may not protect us or may not be enforceable under some circumstances. In addition, we carry professional liability insurance to cover many of these types of claims, but the policy limits and the breadth of coverage may be inadequate to cover any particular claim or all claims plus the cost of legal defense. For example, we provide services on engagements in which the impact on a client may substantially exceed the limits of our errors and omissions insurance coverage. If we are found to have professional liability with respect to work performed on such an engagement, we may not have sufficient insurance to cover the entire liability. The consulting services industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. The consulting services industry in which we operate includes a large number of participants and is intensely competitive. We face competition from other business operations and financial consulting firms, general management consulting firms, the consulting practices of major accounting firms, technical and economic advisory firms, regional and specialty consulting firms and the internal professional resources of organizations. In addition, because there are relatively low barriers to entry, we expect to continue to face additional competition from new entrants into the business operations and financial consulting industries. Many of our competitors have a greater national and international presence, as well as have significantly greater personnel, financial, technical and marketing resources. In addition, these competitors may generate greater revenues and have greater name recognition than we do. Our ability to compete also depends in part on the ability of our competitors to hire, retain and motivate skilled professionals, the price at which others offer comparable services and our competitors’ responsiveness to their clients. If we are unable to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with any new competitors, our financial results will be adversely affected. Conflicts of interest could preclude us from accepting engagements thereby causing decreased utilization and revenues. We provide services in connection with bankruptcy, litigation and other proceedings proceedings that usually involve sensitive client information and frequently are adversarial. In connection with bankruptcy proceedings, we are required by law to be “disinterested” and may not be able to provide multiple services to a particular client. In litigation we would generally be prohibited from performing services in the same litigation for the party adverse to our client. In addition, our engagement agreement with a client or other business reasons may preclude us from accepting engagements from time to time with our clients’ competitors or adversaries. As we adjust the size of our operations and the complement of consulting services, the number of conflict situations will continue to increase. Moreover, in many industries in which we provide services, there has been a continuing trend toward business consolidations and strategic alliances. These consolidations and alliances reduce the number of companies that may seek our services and increase the chances that we will be unable to accept new engagements as a result of conflicts of interest. If we are unable to accept new engagements for any reason, our consultants may become underutilized, which would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations in future periods. The nature of our services and the current economic environment make evaluating our business difficult. Although we have consistently generated positive earnings since we became a public company, except for the year ended December 31, 2009 as a result of the non-cash goodwill impairment charge, we may not sustain profitability in the 15 Table of Contents future. Additionally, the current instability in the global economy makes it even harder to predict our future operating results. To sustain profitability, we must: • attract, integrate, retain and motivate highly qualified professionals; • achieve and maintain adequate utilization and suitable billing rates for our revenue-generating professionals; • expand our existing relationships with our clients and identify new clients in need of our services; • successfully re-sell engagements and secure new engagements every year, which may prove to be difficult in light of the current adverse economic conditions; • maintain and enhance our brand recognition; and • adapt quickly to meet changes in our markets, our business mix, the economic environment, the credit markets, and competitive developments. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 