ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The payday loan industry is highly regulated under state laws. Changes in state laws governing lending practices could negatively affect our business revenues and earnings. Our business is regulated under numerous state laws and regulations, which are subject to change and which may impose significant costs or limitations on the way we conduct or expand our business. As of December 31, 2013, 33 states and the District of Columbia had legislation permitting or not prohibiting payday loans. The remaining 17 states did not have laws specifically authorizing the payday loan business or have laws that effectively preclude us from offering the payday loan product by capping the interest fee we can earn at an annual percentage rate of 36% or lower, which makes offering the payday product in those states unprofitable. An annual percentage rate of 36% is equivalent to a fee of approximately $1.38 per $100 borrowed. During 2013, we made payday loans directly in 20 of these 33 states. In addition, in Texas we operate as a credit services organization, assisting our customers in Texas in obtaining loans from an unrelated third-party lender. During the last few years, legislation has been adopted in some states in which we operate or operated that prohibits or severely restricts payday loans. For example, legislation that prohibits or severely restricts payday loans has been adopted in Montana (2010 via a ballot initiative) South Carolina (2009), Washington (2009), Kentucky (2009), Ohio (2008), Virginia (2008), New Mexico (2007), Oregon (2006) and Illinois (2005 and 2011). Some states, including Mississippi and Arizona, which are states in which we operate, have sunset provisions in their payday loan laws that require renewal of the laws by the state legislatures at periodic intervals. The Arizona payday loan statutory authority expired by its terms on June 30, 2010 and the termination of this law had a significant adverse effect on our revenues and profitability for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011. In February 2011, the sunset provision of the Mississippi payday loan law was extended from July 1, 2012 to July 1, 2015. In recent years, including 2013, more than 200 bills have been introduced in state legislatures nationwide, including bills in virtually every state in which we are doing business, to revise the current law governing payday 18 Table of Contents loans in that state. In certain instances, the bills, if adopted, would effectively prohibit payday loans in that state. In other instances, the bills, if adopted, would amend the payday loan laws in ways that would adversely affect our revenues and earnings in that state. Any of these bills, or future proposed legislation or regulations prohibiting payday loans or making them less profitable or unprofitable, could be passed in any of these states at any time, or existing payday loan laws could expire or be amended. Legislative changes (or failures to extend payday lending laws) have had a significant adverse effect on our business, revenues and earnings in New Mexico, Arizona, Washington, South Carolina, Illinois, Virginia and certain other states in recent years. Voter initiatives to limit or prohibit payday lending can result in expensive ballot campaigns and changes to state laws, both of which can adversely affect our results of operations. State laws can be changed by ballot initiative or referendum in certain states. A 2010 ballot initiative in Montana precluded payday lending on profitable terms, thus effectively prohibiting payday lending in Montana. Similarly, the prospect of a ballot initiative in Oregon during 2006 led to legislation that effectively prohibits payday lending in that state. After those measures were passed, we closed all our branches in Montana and Oregon. Ballot initiatives can also be expensive to oppose and are more susceptible to emotion than deliberations in the normal legislative process. We have spent substantial amounts in the past related to ballot initiatives and would expect to do so in the future if another ballot initiative is proposed. There was an effort in Missouri to place a voter initiative on the statewide ballot in November 2012 that was intended to preclude any lending in the state with an annual rate over 36%. The supporters of the voter initiative did not submit a sufficient number of valid signatures to place the initiative on the ballot in November 2012. However, a similar initiative was submitted to the Missouri Secretary of State in December 2012 for inclusion on the November 2014 ballot subject to the proponents submitting the required number of valid signatures in support of the initiative. In 2013, our Missouri branches accounted for approximately 25% and 36% of our total revenues and gross profits, respectively. The loss of Missouri revenues and gross profit as a result of passage of a voter initiative precluding payday lending would have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. Changes in state regulations or interpretations of state laws and regulations governing lending practices could negatively affect our business, revenues and earnings, and the costs of regulatory compliance are increasing. Statutes authorizing payday loans typically provide state agencies that regulate banks and financial institutions with significant regulatory powers to administer and enforce the law. Under statutory authority, state regulators have broad discretionary power and may impose new licensing requirements, interpret or enforce existing regulatory requirements in different ways or issue new administrative rules, even if not contained in state statutes, that affect the way we do business and may force us to terminate or modify our operations in particular states. They may also impose rules that are generally adverse to our industry. Furthermore, to the extent that a state determined that our lack of compliance warranted termination of our license, we would be precluded from operating in that state and may be required to report that license termination to other states pursuant to notification requirements or upon the licensing renewal process in those other states. States have generally increased their regulatory and compliance requirements for payday loans in recent years, and our branches are subject to examination by state regulators in most states. We have taken or been required to take certain corrective actions as a result of self-audits or state audits of our branches and the level of regulation and compliance costs have increased and we anticipate that they will continue to increase. Additionally, in many states, the attorney general has scrutinized or continues to scrutinize the payday loan statutes and the interpretations of those statutes. For instance, in September 2005, the New Mexico Attorney General promulgated regulations (later withdrawn) that would have had the practical effect of limiting the fees and interest on payday loans to 54% per annum, thus effectively prohibiting payday lending in New Mexico. 19 Table of Contents Similarly, in December 2009, the Arizona Attorney General filed a lawsuit against us in Arizona state court alleging that we violated various state consumer protection statutes. Future interpretations of state law in other jurisdictions or promulgation of regulations or new interpretations, similar to the prior actions in New Mexico or the ruling by the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks as discussed below, could have an adverse impact on our ability to offer payday loans in those states and an adverse impact on our earnings. The payday loan industry is regulated under federal law. Changes in federal laws and regulations governing lending practices could negatively affect our business. Although states provide the primary regulatory framework under which we offer payday loans, certain federal laws (in addition to the Dodd-Frank Act discussed immediately below) also affect our business. For example, because payday loans are viewed as extensions of credit, we must comply with the federal Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z adopted under that Act. Additionally, we are subject to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and with respect to our CSO business in Texas, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act. These regulations also apply to any lender with which we do business in Texas through our credit services organization business. A failure to comply with any of these federal laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, anti-payday loan legislation, including 36% interest rate cap bills that would effectively prohibit payday lending, have been introduced in the U.S. Congress in the past. Earlier federal efforts culminated in federal legislation that limits the interest rate and fees that may be charged on any short-term loans, including payday loans, to any person in the military to 36% per annum, which became effective October 1, 2007 and effectively bans payday lending to members of the military or their families. Future federal legislative or regulatory action that restricts or prohibits payday loans could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and a 36% interest rate cap or similar federal limit, without the inclusion of meaningful fees, would effectively require us to cease our payday loan operations nationally. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the CFPB to adopt rules that could potentially have a serious impact on our ability to offer short-term consumer loans and also empowers the CFPB and state officials to bring enforcement actions against companies that violate federal consumer financial laws. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB. The CFPB became operational in 2011. The CFPB has regulatory, supervisory and enforcement powers over providers of consumer financial products and services, including explicit supervisory authority to examine and require registration of payday lenders. Included in the powers afforded the CFPB is the authority to adopt rules describing specified acts and practices as being “unfair,” “deceptive” or “abusive,” and hence unlawful. The director of the CFPB has suggested that payday and title lending should be a regulatory priority, and the CFPB has already conducted public hearings to obtain public input regarding the payday loan industry. Accordingly, it is possible that at some time in the future the CFPB will propose and adopt rules making payday or title loan lending services materially less profitable or impractical, forcing us to modify or terminate certain product offerings, including payday and title loans. The CFPB could also adopt rules imposing new and potentially burdensome requirements and limitations with respect to our other lines of business. Any such rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition or could make the continuance of our current business impractical or unprofitable. In addition to Dodd-Frank’s grant of regulatory and supervisory powers to the CFPB, Dodd-Frank gives the CFPB authority to pursue administrative proceedings or litigation for violations of federal consumer financial laws (including the CFPB’s own rules). In these proceedings, the CFPB can obtain cease and desist orders (which can include orders for restitution or rescission of contracts, as well as other kinds of affirmative relief) and 20 Table of Contents monetary penalties ranging from $5,000 per day for violations of federal consumer financial laws to $25,000 per day for reckless violations and $1.0 million per day for knowing violations. Also, where a company has violated Title X of Dodd-Frank or CFPB regulations under Title X, Dodd-Frank empowers state attorneys general and state regulators to bring civil actions for the kind of cease and desist orders available to the CFPB (but not for civil penalties). If the CFPB or a state attorney general believes we have violated the foregoing laws or regulations, they could exercise their enforcement powers in ways that would have a material adverse effect on us. The CFPB can effect changes to consumer lending practices informally through the examination process, which can have an adverse effect on our operations. The CFPB can effect changes to payday and other consumer lending practices through the examination process, and has already done so with us as a result of the CFPB’s 2012 examination of our payday lending compliance programs. We are expending substantial amounts of management time and cash resources to comply with the requirements of the CFPB that came out of that initial examination, primarily with respect to monitoring compliance with federal consumer lending laws. We anticipate that we will continue to expend substantial amounts of time and money to monitor compliance with federal consumer lending laws. There is also the risk that the CFPB could effect substantive changes to payday and other consumer lending businesses through the examination process under its broad mandate to regulate consumer financial lending. We believe that other payday lenders are experiencing similar compliance costs and changes to lending practices as a result of the CFPB, and the industry may face a greater risk of informal regulation through the examination process than through formal CFPB rulemaking. Litigation and regulatory actions directed toward our industry or us could adversely affect our operating results. Our industry has been subject to regulatory proceedings, class action lawsuits and other litigation regarding the offering of payday loans, and we could suffer losses from interpretations of state laws in those lawsuits or regulatory proceedings, even if we are not a party to those proceedings. We presently have pending against us class action lawsuits in North Carolina and Canada as described under Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” The consequences of an adverse ruling in any of the current cases or future litigation or proceedings could cause us to have to refund fees or interest collected on payday loans, to refund the principal amount of payday loans, to pay treble or other multiple damages, to pay monetary penalties or to modify or terminate our operations in particular states. We may also be subject to adverse publicity arising out of current or future litigation. Defense of these pending lawsuits is time consuming and expensive, and the defense of these or future lawsuits or proceedings, even if we are successful, could require substantial time and attention of our senior officers and other management personnel that would otherwise be spent on other aspects of our business and could require the expenditure of significant amounts for legal fees and other related costs. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, regulatory actions taken with respect to one financial service that we offer could negatively affect our ability to offer other financial services. For example, if we were the subject of regulatory action related to our check cashing, title loans or other products, such regulatory action could adversely affect our ability to maintain our licenses for payday lending. Moreover, the suspension or revocation of our license or other authorization in one state could adversely affect our ability to maintain licenses in other states. Accordingly, a violation of a law or regulation in otherwise unrelated products or jurisdictions could affect other parts of our business and adversely affect our business and operations as a whole. Judicial decisions, CFPB rule-making or amendments to the Federal Arbitration Act could render the arbitration agreements we use illegal or unenforceable. We include pre-dispute arbitration provisions in our loan agreements. These provisions are designed to allow us to resolve customer disputes through individual arbitration rather than in court. Our arbitration 21 Table of Contents agreements contain certain consumer-friendly features, including terms that require in-person arbitration to take place in locations convenient for the consumer and provide consumers the option to pursue a claim in small claims court. Our arbitration provisions, however, explicitly provide that all arbitrations will be conducted on an individual and not on a class basis. They do not generally have any impact on regulatory enforcement proceedings. While many courts, particularly federal courts, have concluded that the Federal Arbitration Act requires the enforcement of arbitration agreements containing class action waivers of the type we use, in cases involving other parties, some state courts have concluded that arbitration agreements with class action waivers are “unconscionable” and hence unenforceable, particularly where a small dollar amount is in controversy on an individual basis. While the U.S. Supreme Court has continued to hand down opinions validating the Federal Arbitration Act and its purposes, state trial courts and appellate courts continue to ignore the mandates of the Supreme Court and invalidate or limit arbitration clauses in many reported consumer cases. As a result, we continue to expend substantial legal resources in certain jurisdictions defending our arbitration provisions in lending contracts. Congress has considered legislation that would generally limit or prohibit mandatory pre-dispute arbitration in consumer contracts and has adopted such a prohibition with respect to certain mortgage loans and also certain consumer loans to members of the military on active duty and their dependents. Furthermore, Dodd-Frank directs the CFPB to study consumer arbitration and report to Congress, and it authorizes the CFPB to adopt rules limiting or prohibiting consumer arbitration, consistent with the results of its study. Any such rule would apply to arbitration agreements entered into more than six months after the final rule becomes effective (and not to prior arbitration agreements). Any judicial decisions, legislation or other rules or regulations that impair our ability to enter into and enforce pre-dispute consumer arbitration agreements could significantly increase our exposure to class action litigation. Such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The concentration of our revenues and gross profits in Missouri and other certain states could adversely affect us. Our branches operate in 23 states. For the year ended December 31, 2013, branches located in Missouri, California and Kansas represented approximately 48% of our total revenues and 61% of our total gross profit. Revenues from branches located in Missouri and California represented 25% and 17%, respectively, of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013. Gross profit from branches in Missouri and California represented 36% and 17%, respectively, of our total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2013. While we believe we have a diverse geographic presence, for the near term we expect that significant revenues and gross profit will continue to be generated by certain states, largely due to the currently prevailing economic, demographic, regulatory, competitive and other conditions in those states. Changes to prevailing economic, demographic, regulatory or any other conditions, including the legislative, regulatory, ballot referendum or litigation risks discussed above, in the markets in which we operate could lead to a reduction in demand for our payday loans, a decline in our revenues or an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, any of which could result in a deterioration of our financial condition. For example, amendments to the South Carolina law and Washington law became effective January 1, 2010. Prior to these new laws in South Carolina and Washington, revenues from each state were approximately 7% and 5%, respectively, of our total revenues. In South Carolina, the maximum loan size was raised, but the new law also created a database to enforce a one loan per customer limit. In Washington, amendments to its law created a database to enforce a one loan per customer limit and to place a usage limit on customers at eight loans per year. Similarly, the Arizona payday loan statutory authority expired by its terms on June 30, 2010 and prior to that event, Arizona represented approximately 8% of total revenues. The changes in the payday lending laws in each of these states had a significant adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. 22 Table of Contents In March 2011, a new payday law became effective in Illinois that imposes customer usage restrictions that negatively affects revenues and profitability. This type of customer restriction, when passed in other states such as Washington, South Carolina and Kentucky, has resulted in a 30% to 60% decline in annual revenues in that state and a more significant decline in gross profit for the state, depending on the types of alternative products that competitors offered within the state. There was an effort in Missouri to place a voter initiative on the statewide ballot in November 2012, which was intended to preclude any lending in the state with an annual rate over 36%. The supporters of the voter initiative did not submit a sufficient number of valid signatures to place the initiative on the ballot in November 2012. However, a similar initiative was submitted to the Missouri Secretary of State in December 2012 for inclusion on the November 2014 ballot subject to the proponents submitting the required number of valid signatures in support of the initiative. If this initiative is placed on the ballot in 2014 and the measure passes, we would be unable to operate our payday loan branches in Missouri at a profit and be forced to close our branches in the state. We lack product and business diversification. Accordingly, our future revenues and earnings are more susceptible to fluctuations than a more diversified company. Our primary business activity is offering and servicing short-term consumer loans. We also provide certain related services, such as check cashing, title loans, credit services, open-end credit, debit cards, money transfers and money orders, which accounted for approximately 9% of our revenues in 2013. In 2011, we entered the Canadian Internet payday lending market with our acquisition of Direct Credit. That acquisition provides geographic diversification and product distribution diversification; however it does not provide core business diversification. As noted above, with unfavorable legislative and regulatory changes, the revenues in our payday loan business are declining, which has adversely affected our overall revenues and earnings. Our lack of product and business diversification has and is likely to continue to inhibit the opportunities for growth of our business, revenues and profits. Our expansion into Canada exposes us to different risks, including risks associated with monitoring and complying with Canadian laws and regulations, foreign currency fluctuation risks, and tax risks, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. In 2011, we completed our acquisition of a Canadian Internet payday lending company. In Canada, the Canadian Parliament amended the federal usury law in 2007 to permit each province to assume jurisdiction over and the development of laws and regulations regarding our industry. To date, Ontario, British Columbia, Alberta, Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Nova Scotia have passed legislation regulating short-term consumer lenders and each has, or is in the process of adopting, regulations and rates consistent with those laws. In general, these regulations require lenders to be licensed, set maximum fees and regulate collection practices. Our Canadian subsidiaries currently offer payday loans through the Internet to residents of each of these provinces. There may be future changes to or interpretations of the Canadian federal law or the provincial laws and regulations that could have a detrimental effect on our consumer lending business in Canada. Additionally, there are increased risks to us associated with monitoring and complying with Canadian laws, including the risk that we may overlook laws or regulations with which we are less familiar. Additionally, while the full-year 2013 revenue of our Canadian subsidiaries was not material to our overall U.S. revenues, we expect our Canadian business to grow, which could expose us to greater risk associated with foreign currency fluctuations and changes in foreign tax rates, both of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not presently plan to hedge our exposure to the Canadian dollar. Furthermore, our financial results may be negatively affected to the extent tax rates in Canada increase or exceed those in the United States or as a result of the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign earnings. Finally, our Canadian operations have contributed to increased costs, including increased accounting, legal and tax reporting costs, plus increased corporate management time. Because international operations increase the 23 Table of Contents complexity of an organization, we anticipate we will continue to face additional administrative costs in managing our business, including particularly technology-related costs, than we would if we only conducted operations domestically. In addition, most countries typically impose additional burdens on non-domestic companies through the use of local regulations, tariffs and labor controls. Unexpected changes to the foregoing could negatively affect our results of operations. Our inability to introduce or manage new products efficiently and profitably could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We continue to explore potential new products and businesses to serve our customers and to diversify our business. For example, in response to changes in state laws or regulations, we have introduced new short-term consumer lending products, such as installment loans in a number of jurisdictions. There have been increased losses associated with the introduction of new consumer loan products in each jurisdiction as we have learned how to adapt our processes to the market demands and challenges of that product. We anticipate the introduction of new products and services in the future will continue to present significant risk management challenges, including the likelihood of significantly higher loan losses than we have historically experienced for payday or title loans. In 2012, we introduced new installment loan products (signature loans and auto equity loans) to meet high customer demand for longer-term loan options. In December 2013 we began piloting Internet lending in a limited number (currently three) states. We have experienced significantly higher loan losses with each of these initiatives and significantly higher number of apparently fraudulent Internet loan applications and loans during this initial rollout of Internet lending. We anticipate that we will continue to encounter new risks associated with the rollout of Internet lending in the United States. While in the past loan losses for new products have generally declined over time as we have adjusted to those new products, there is the risk that loan losses will not decline in the future for Internet lending or other new products. We also intend to introduce additional services and products in the future in order to diversify our business. In order to offer new products and to enter into new businesses, we normally will need to comply with additional regulatory and licensing requirements. Each of these new products and businesses is subject to risk and uncertainty and requires significant investment of time and capital, including additional marketing expenses, legal costs, acquisition costs and other incremental start-up costs. Due to our lack of experience in offering certain new products and businesses, we may not be successful in identifying or introducing any new product or business in a timely or profitable manner. Additionally, loan losses for new products may be higher than we initially expected. Furthermore, we cannot predict the demand for any new product or service. Our failure to introduce a new product or service efficiently and profitably or low customer demand for any of these new products or services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. General economic conditions affect our revenues, loan losses and profitability. While it is difficult to gauge the impact the 2008-2009 economic recession had on our business in those years and following, we believe it had a substantial impact on our revenues and loan losses and thus our overall profitability. We believe our customers are more sophisticated than portrayed in the media by certain consumer groups and that our customers restrict borrowings in circumstances when risk of non-repayment is increased. A future downturn or a reversal of the modest recovery we have experienced the past four years could likewise significantly affect our revenues, loan losses and profitability. Our customers are particularly vulnerable to periods of high unemployment and economic malaise. Similarly, we believe that spikes in gasoline prices over a sustained period have in the past, and likely will in the future, have an adverse impact on our customers’ ability to repay loans, and thus on our loan losses. We have experienced fluctuations in our loan losses and revenues in the past that appear to correspond to broader economic events and trends and anticipate that we will be similarly adversely affected by unfavorable economic events and trends in the future. 24 Table of Contents We believe this occurred when gasoline prices have spiked at various times over the last four years and also occurred in fourth quarter 2008 due to the national credit crisis. We believe that lower customer loan demand in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 is directly related to the continuing effects of the 2008-09 recession. We believe these adverse economic pressures on our customers are continuing in 2014 and will continue for the foreseeable future, which has had, and is expected to continue to have, an adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. Disruptions in the credit markets from the national credit crisis negatively affected the availability and cost of commercial credit, which adversely affected our borrowing ability and costs. We believe that disruptions in the capital and credit markets in 2008 and 2009 adversely affected the availability and cost of commercial credit for our business. In addition, uncertainty as to the economic recovery and changing and increased regulation coming out of the recession, including the Dodd-Frank Act, have been additional disruptions to the capital and credit markets for our industry. We believe that these factors directly and adversely affected the terms of our credit agreement between 2008 and 2013. We believe that future disruptions to the national credit markets could adversely affect our ability to refinance our revolving credit facility (which matures on September 30, 2014) or to obtain additional loans to finance our business operations or acquisitions. Our recent financial performance has resulted in less favorable borrowing terms and may adversely affect our ability to extending our revolving credit facility or to obtain additional loans to finance our business operations or acquisition opportunities. In addition to the generally tight credit markets in the past five years as a result of the 2008-2009 recession and national credit crisis, we have experienced declining financial results in the past three years, which have resulted in our failure to meet various financial covenants in our credit agreements. While our bank lending group has waived or amended those financial covenants in the past, each waiver or amendment has resulted in less availability under our revolving credit agreement, stricter payday requirements on our term loans and generally higher loan costs and tighter loan covenants (including restrictions on payment of dividends). Our credit facility matures on September 30, 2014. Unless our financial results improve in 2014, we may not be able to extend our current credit facility at all or on terms that are attractive to us. The reduced availability under our current revolving credit facility, or the inability to refinance our current credit facility, could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, including acquisitions, restricting growth of the long-term installment loan product, reducing operating expenses, pursuing the sale of certain assets or considering other alternatives designed to enhance liquidity. Our revolving credit facility contains restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business. Our revolving credit facility contains a number of significant covenants that could adversely affect our business. These covenants restrict our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • create liens; • effect mergers or consolidations; • make investments, acquisitions or dispositions; • prohibition on paying dividends, repurchasing stock or making similar restricted payments; and • enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions. As a result, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might further our corporate strategies. Our obligations under the credit facility are guaranteed by each of our existing and future domestic subsidiaries. The borrowings under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by all 25 Table of Contents of our operating subsidiaries (other than the foreign subsidiaries) and are secured by liens on substantially all of our personal property including the personal property of our U.S. subsidiaries. In the event of our insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the lenders under our credit facility and any other then existing debt of ours would be entitled to payment in full from our assets before distributions, if any, were made to our stockholders. The breach of any covenant or obligation in our credit facility will result in a default. If there is an event of default under our credit facility, the lenders could cause all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable. If we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under our credit facility when it comes due, at maturity or upon acceleration, the lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. We depend on loans and cash management services from banks to operate our business. If banks decide to stop making loans or providing cash management services to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on borrowings under our revolving credit facility to fund loans, capital expenditures, smaller acquisitions, cash dividends and other needs. If consumer banks decide not to lend money to companies in our industry or to us, our ability to borrow at competitive interest rates (or at all), our ability to operate our business and our cash availability would likely be adversely affected. Certain banks have notified us and other companies in the payday loan and check cashing industries that they will no longer maintain bank accounts for these companies due to reputation risks and increased compliance costs of servicing money services businesses and other cash intensive industries. While none of our primary depository banks has requested that we close our bank accounts or placed other restrictions on how we use their services, if any of our larger current or future depository banks were to take such actions, we could face higher costs of managing our cash and limitations on our ability to grow our business, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Media reports and public perception of payday loans as being predatory or abusive could adversely affect our business. Consumer advocacy groups and certain media reports advocate governmental action to prohibit or severely restrict payday loans. The consumer groups and media reports typically focus on the cost to a consumer for this type of loan, which is higher than the interest typically charged by credit card issuers. This difference in credit cost is more significant if a consumer does not promptly repay the loan, but renews, or rolls over, that loan for one or more additional short-term periods. The consumer groups and media reports typically characterize these payday loans as predatory or abusive toward consumers. If this negative characterization of our payday loans becomes widely accepted by consumers, demand for our payday loans could significantly decrease, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Negative perception of our payday loans or other activities could also result in our industry being subject to more restrictive laws and regulations and greater exposure to litigation. If estimates of our loan losses are not adequate to absorb actual losses, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses at levels to cover the estimated incurred losses in the collection of our loan portfolio outstanding at the end of each applicable period. Our methodology for estimating the allowance for payday loan loses utilizes a four-step approach, which reflects the short-term nature of the loan portfolio at each period-end, the historical collection experience in the month following each reporting period-end and any fluctuations in recent general economic conditions. We also maintain allowances for loan losses with respect to our installment loans, which are computed using separate methodologies based on historical data, as well as industry and economic factors. Our allowance for loan losses was $10.4 million on December 31, 2013. Our allowance for loan losses is an estimate, and if actual loan losses are materially greater than our allowance for losses, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents The payday loan industry is subject to various local rules and regulations. Changes in these local regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition to state and federal laws and regulations, our business is subject to various local rules and regulations such as local zoning regulations and permit licensing. Any actions taken in the future by local zoning boards or other governing bodies to require special use permits for, or impose other restrictions on, payday lenders could impact our growth strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, several cities in Texas have passed local ordinances governing certain loan provisions including refinancing and extensions. Since 2011, revenues from our Texas locations have declined by $1.0 million and gross profit has declined by $1.5 million due to the passage of these ordinances. Any disruption in the availability of our information systems could adversely affect operations at our branches. We rely upon our information systems to manage and operate our branches and business. Each branch is part of an information network that permits us to maintain adequate cash inventory, reconcile cash balances daily, report revenues and loan losses timely and, in Texas, to access the third-party lender’s loan approval system. Our security measures could fail to prevent a disruption in the availability of our information systems and/or our back-up systems could fail to operate properly. Any disruption in the availability of our information systems could adversely affect our operations and our results of operations. Our headquarters is currently located at a single location in Overland Park, Kansas. Our information systems and administrative and management processes are primarily provided to our regions and branches from this location, which could be disrupted if a catastrophic event, such as a tornado, power outage or act of terror, destroyed or severely damaged the headquarters. While we maintain redundant facilities in Texas with a third-party vendor, any catastrophic event could nonetheless adversely affect our operations and our results of operations. Improper disclosure of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. We store and process large amounts of personally identifiable information, that consists primarily of customer information. There have been widespread reports recently of hackers penetrating the firewalls of major financial institutions and retail companies for the apparent purpose of obtaining personally identifiable information and to disrupt the technologies and operations of those global companies. While we may not be as visible of a target to foreign or domestic hackers, our resources available to protect our systems and our customer information are substantially less than the resources of the national and global companies that are reporting they have been hacked. It is possible that our security controls over personal data, our training of employees, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. The goal of our enterprise risk management efforts is not to eliminate all systemic risk. We have devoted significant time and energy to develop our enterprise risk management program and expect to continue to do so in the future. The goal of enterprise risk management is not to eliminate all risk, but rather to identify, assess and rank risk. Nonetheless, our efforts to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective. Many of our methods of managing risk and exposures depend upon the implementation of state regulations and other policies or procedures affecting our customers or employees. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective in managing these risks. While many of the risks that we monitor and manage are described in this Risk Factors section of this report, our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently described in this section or known to us or that we currently consider immaterial to our operations. 27 Table of Contents Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. If they fluctuate in the future, the market price of our common stock could also fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future. If they do so, our quarterly revenues and operating results may be difficult to forecast. It is possible that our future quarterly results of operations will not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. This could cause a material drop in the market price of our common stock. Our business will continue to be affected by a number of factors, including the various risk factors set forth in this section, any one of which could substantially affect our results of operations for a particular fiscal quarter. Our quarterly results of operations can vary due to: • fluctuations in payday and installment loan demand; • fluctuations in our loan loss experience; • regulatory and legislative activity restricting our business; • perceptions regarding possible future regulatory or legislative changes to our business; • the initiation, management and/or resolution of significant legal actions; and • changes in broad economic factors, such as energy prices, average hourly wage rates, inflation or bankruptcy. Our goodwill and intangible assets is subject to periodic review and testing for impairment. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we review the recoverability of goodwill on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events occur or circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. We assess the fair value of our reporting units based on weighted average of valuations based on market multiples and discounted cash flow estimates. Unfavorable trends in our industry and unfavorable events or disruptions to our operations can affect these multiples and estimates. As a result of our annual impairment test of goodwill performed as of December 31, 2013, we recorded a $21.4 million non-cash impairment charge to goodwill, which included $15.7 million to our Branch Lending reporting unit and $5.7 million to our Direct Credit reporting unit. If we make material acquisitions in the future, we may book significant goodwill related to the acquisitions. We could have significant impairment charges associated with any future goodwill similar to our 2013 impairment charge, which could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. The market price of our common stock may be volatile even if our quarterly results do not fluctuate significantly. Even if we report stable or increased earnings, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. There are a number of factors, beyond earnings fluctuations, that can affect the market price of our common stock, including the following: • the introduction, passage or adoption of state or federal legislation or regulation that could adversely affect our business; • the announcement of court decisions adverse to us or our industry; • a decrease in market demand for our stock; • downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates of our future earnings; • announcements of new products or services developed or offered by us; • the degree of customer acceptance of new products or services offered by us; and • general market conditions and other economic factors. The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and is likely to be volatile in the future. 28 Table of Contents When our common stock is a “penny stock,” you may have difficulty selling our common stock in the secondary trading market. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share. Additionally, if the equity security is not registered or authorized on a national securities exchange or NASDAQ, the equity security also would constitute a “penny stock.” These regulations require the delivery, prior to certain transactions involving a penny stock, of a risk disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with it. Disclosure is also required in certain circumstances regarding compensation payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. In addition, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stocks. Since December 2008, our common stock has frequently traded below $5.00 per share and has, from time to time, fallen within the definition of penny stock. Any time that our common stock is classified as a “penny stock” for purposes of these regulations, the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and the ability of stockholders to sell our common stock in the secondary market will be limited. As a result, the market liquidity for our common stock may be adversely affected by the application of these penny stock rules. Competition in the retail financial services industry is intense and could cause us to lose market share and revenues. We believe that the primary competitive factors in the payday loan industry are branch location, mix of products and services, customer service and availability to transact through online or mobile applications. In addition to storefront payday loan locations, we also currently compete with services, such as overdraft protection offered by traditional financial institutions, payday loan-type products offered by some banks and credit unions, and other financial service entities and retail businesses that offer payday loans or other similar financial services, as well as a growing Internet-based payday loan segment. Some of our competitors have larger and more established customer bases and substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result of competition from our direct competitors and competing products and services, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline, thereby affecting our earnings and potential for growth. If we lose key managers or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the members of our senior management, particularly Darrin J. Andersen, our President and Chief Executive Officer. We believe that the loss of the services of Mr. Andersen or any of our other senior officers could adversely affect our business. Our efforts to expand into other businesses and product lines also depend upon our ability to attract and retain additional skilled management personnel for those businesses or product lines. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. To the extent that we are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer. Regular turnover among our branch managers and branch-level employees makes it more difficult for us to operate our branches and increases our costs of operation. We experience high turnover among our branch managers and our branch-level employees. In 2013, we sustained approximately 25% turnover among our branch managers and approximately 63% turnover among our branch-level employees. Turnover interferes with implementation of branch operating strategies. High turnover in the future would perpetuate these operating pressures and increase our operating costs. Additionally, high turnover creates challenges for us in maintaining high levels of employee awareness of and compliance with our internal procedures and external regulatory compliance requirements. 29 Table of Contents Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders may be able to exert significant control over our strategic direction. Our directors and executive officers own or have the power to vote approximately 56% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2013. Don Early, our Chairman of the Board, and Mary Lou Early, our Vice Chairman of the Board, owned approximately 47.7% directly and 1.4% indirectly of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2013. The election of each director requires a plurality of the shares voting for directors at a meeting of stockholders at which a quorum is present. Approval of a significant corporate transaction, such as a merger or consolidation of the company, a sale of all or substantially all of its assets or a dissolution of the company, requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Other actions requiring stockholder approval require the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares of common stock voting on the matter, provided that a quorum is present. A quorum requires the presence of a majority of the shares outstanding. As a result, one or more stockholders owning a relatively low percentage of the outstanding shares of our common stock could, acting together with Mr. and Mrs. Early, control all matters requiring our stockholders’ approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. As a result, this concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a change in control or change in board composition, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of the company or its assets and might reduce the market price of our common stock. Future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market could depress our stock price. As of December 31, 2013, our officers and directors held approximately 9.8 million shares of common stock, a substantial majority of which are “restricted securities” under the Securities Act and are eligible for future sale in the public market at prescribed times pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or otherwise. In addition, Mr. Early, who directly owns approximately 43.7% of our outstanding shares, has demand registration rights, which permit him to require the company to register all or any part of those shares for resale by Mr. Early. Sales of a significant number of these shares of common stock in the public market could reduce the market price of our common stock. The daily trading volume in our stock, since our initial public offering in July 2004, has been low, and is frequently under 10,000 shares traded in a day. Accordingly, the sale of even a relatively small number of shares by our officers or directors could reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, Mr. Early’s heirs or his estate may be required to sell a significant portion of that stock upon his death. We do not maintain key man life insurance on the life of Mr. Early. If a substantial block of our common stock were sold by Mr. Early’s heirs or estate, it would likely significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Our anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of our company even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws as well as provisions of Kansas law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company, even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors without a stockholder vote to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We can redeem common stock from a stockholder who is or becomes a disqualified person. Federal and state laws and regulations applicable to providers of payday loans may now, or in the future, restrict direct or indirect ownership or control of providers of payday loan services by disqualified persons (such as convicted felons). Our articles of incorporation provide that we may redeem shares of our common stock to 30 Table of Contents the extent deemed necessary or advisable, in the judgment of our board of directors, to prevent the loss, or to secure the reinstatement or renewal, of any license or permit from any governmental agency that is conditioned upon some or all of the holders of our common stock possessing prescribed qualifications or not possessing prescribed disqualifications. The redemption price will be the average of the daily closing sale prices per share of our common stock for the 30 consecutive trading days immediately prior to the redemption date fixed by our board of directors. At the discretion of our board of directors, the redemption price may be paid in cash, debt or equity securities or a combination of cash and debt or equity securities. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 