Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following information. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any of the risks described below could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, and a corresponding decline in the market price of our common shares and other securities. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below. See “Business—Note on Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to the Proposed Merger with ACP Re Failure to complete the proposed merger with ACP Re could adversely affect our ability to continue as a going concern. There is no assurance that the closing of our proposed merger with ACP Re will occur or that it will close under the same terms and conditions contained in the ACP Re Merger Agreement. Consummation of the merger is subject to various conditions, including, among other things, the approval of the ACP Re Merger Agreement and the merger by the holders of a majority of our outstanding common shares, and certain other customary conditions, including, among other things, the absence of laws or judgments prohibiting or restraining the merger and the receipt of certain regulatory approvals. We cannot predict with certainty whether and when any of these conditions will be satisfied. In addition, the ACP Re Merger Agreement may be terminated under certain specified circumstances, including if the merger is not consummated on or before September 30, 2014 or if the special meeting of our shareholders is not convened and held on or prior to August 15, 2014. If the ACP Re Merger Agreement is not approved by our shareholders or if the merger is not consummated for any other reason, our shareholders will not receive any payment for their shares in connection with the merger. Instead, we will remain an independent public company and we would intend that the common shares continue to be listed and traded on NASDAQ. There is, however, substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Recent declines in our financial strength and issuer credit ratings have materially adversely affected our ability to write new business. See “There is substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.” and “Recent declines in the ratings assigned to us and our insurance subsidiaries by A.M. Best, Fitch and Demotech, as well as any future ratings downgrades, will affect our ability to write new business, our standing among brokers, agents and insureds and cause our sales and earnings to decrease.” In addition, TGI’s $147.7 million 5.00% senior convertible notes mature on September 15, 2014 and we currently do not have, and do not anticipate obtaining, any commitments with respect to raising additional capital or liquidating investments that will provide sufficient funds to pay the principal of the Notes when they mature. See “We may be unable to implement our proposed capital improvement strategy or, if implemented, it may not achieve its anticipated benefits, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.” Also, under specified circumstances, the ACP Re Merger Agreement may require us to reimburse ACP Re for its expenses or pay ACP Re a fee with respect to the termination of the ACP Re Merger Agreement, which would further impact our ability to continue as a going concern if the merger is not completed. Risks Related to Our Business There is substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. There is substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to remain as a going concern. As such, any potential investor or lender may be unlikely or unwilling to provide additional capital or loans to the Company. Should the Company no longer continue to support its capital or liquidity needs, or should the Company be unable to successfully execute its capital improvement strategy, raise additional capital, execute any strategic alternatives (including the ACP Re merger) or sell certain investments in an orderly manner, such failures would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position. 28 Table of Contents Recent declines in the ratings assigned to us and our insurance subsidiaries by A.M. Best, Fitch and Demotech, as well as any future ratings downgrades, will affect our ability to write new business, our standing among brokers, agents and insureds and cause our sales and earnings to decrease. Financial strength ratings are an important factor influencing the competitive position of insurance companies. The objective of the rating agencies’ rating systems is to provide an opinion of an insurer’s financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to its policyholders. Our insurance subsidiaries’ ratings reflect the rating agencies’ opinion of our financial strength and are not evaluations directed to investors in our securities, nor are they recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. Our ratings are subject to periodic review by, and may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of, the rating agencies. Our ability to write business is significantly influenced by our rating from A.M. Best. On December 20, 2013, A.M. Best lowered the financial strength ratings of each of our insurance subsidiaries from “B++” (Good) to “B” (Fair) (the seventh highest of fifteen rating levels), as well as the issuer credit ratings of each of our insurance subsidiaries from “bbb” to “bb”. Previously, on October 8, 2013, A.M. Best had downgraded the financial strength rating of each of our insurance subsidiaries to “B++” (Good) and their respective issuer credit ratings to “bbb” from “a-”. In addition on December 20, 2013, A.M. Best downgraded the issuer credit rating of TGI as well as the debt rating on its $147.7 million 5.00% senior convertible notes due 2014 (the “Notes”) to “b-” from “bb”. On the same date, A.M. Best also downgraded the financial strength rating of CastlePoint Reinsurance Company, Ltd. (Bermuda) to “B” (Fair) from “B++” (Good) and its issuer credit rating to “bb” from “bbb” and downgraded the issuer credit rating of Tower Group International, Ltd. to “b-” from “bb”. We, TGI and each of our insurance subsidiaries currently are and will continue to be under review with negative implications pending further discussions between A.M. Best and our management. In downgrading our ratings, A.M. Best stated that its actions “consider the magnitude of the charges taken and the material adverse impact on Tower’s risk-adjusted capitalization, financial leverage, liquidity and coverage ratios,” “consider the reduced financial flexibility [of the Company] given [its] delay in earnings, the decline in shareholder confidence and the corresponding decline in share price” and “reflect the potential for further adverse reserve development, increased competitive challenges and due to the ratings downgrade, potential actions taken by third party reinsurers and lenders.” Following the announcement of the ACP Re merger, on January 10, 2014, A.M. Best maintained the under review status of our financial strength and issuer credit ratings and revised the implications from “negative” to “developing” for all of these ratings. A.M. Best stated that, “[t]he under review status with developing implications reflects the potential benefits to be garnered from the transaction as well as the potential downside from any additional adverse reserve development and/or any unforeseen events that might transpire up until the close of the transaction ” TGIL and our insurance subsidiaries also are rated by Fitch Ratings Ltd. (“Fitch”). Fitch insurer financial strength ratings are assigned to an insurer’s policyholder obligations and are an assessment of relative financial strength. Insurer financial strength ratings assess the ability of an insurer to meet policyholder and related obligations, relative to the “best” credit risk in a given country across all industries and obligation types. Fitch Ratings’ credit ratings provide an opinion on the relative ability of an entity to meet financial commitments, such as interest, preferred dividends, repayment of principal, insurance claims or counterparty obligations. On January 2, 2014, Fitch downgraded our issuer default rating from “B” to “CC” and the insurer strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries from “BB” to “B”. On October 7, 2013, Fitch downgraded our issuer default rating to “B” (the sixth highest of 11 such ratings) from “BBB” and the insurer strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries to “B” (the fifth highest of Fitch Ratings’ nine such ratings) from “A-”. In downgrading such ratings, Fitch stated that it “is concerned that Tower’s competitive position has been materially damaged, negatively impacting the Company’s financial flexibility and ability to write new business” and that “the magnitude of the second quarter charges was large enough to cause several key ratios to fall well outside of previously established ratings downgrade triggers, which resulted in the multi-notch downgrade.” On January 6, 2014, Fitch revised our rating watch status to “evolving” from “negative” following the ACP Re merger announcement, and stated that “[t]he Evolving Watch reflects that the ratings could go up if the merger closes; however, ratings could be lowered if the merger does not occur and [the Company] is unsuccessful in addressing upcoming debt maturity or if additional reserve deficiencies develop.” The Reciprocal Exchanges also are rated by Demotech, which ratings are based upon a series of quantitative ratios and qualitative considerations that together comprise a financial stability analysis model (certain of our insurance subsidiaries were rated by Demotech until December 24, 2013). On December 24, 2013, Demotech announced the withdrawal of its Financial Stability Ratings (“FSRs”) assigned to our following subsidiaries: Kodiak Insurance Company, Massachusetts Homeland Insurance Company, Tower Insurance Company of New York and York Insurance Company of Maine. Concurrently, Demotech advised that the FSRs assigned to Adirondack Insurance Exchange, Mountain Valley Indemnity Company, New Jersey Skylands Insurance Association and New Jersey Skylands Insurance Company remain under review. On October 7, 2013, Demotech lowered its rating on Tower Insurance Company of New York and three other U.S. based insurance subsidiaries (Kodiak Insurance Company, Massachusetts Homeland Insurance Company and York Insurance Company of Maine) from “A’ (A prime)” to “A (A exceptional)”. In addition, Demotech removed its previous “A’ (A prime)” rating on six other U.S. based insurance subsidiaries (CastlePoint Florida Insurance Company, CastlePoint Insurance Company, CastlePoint National Insurance Company, Hermitage Insurance Company, North East Insurance Company and Preserver Insurance Company). Demotech also affirmed its “A” ratings on Adirondack Insurance Exchange, New Jersey Skylands Insurance Association, New Jersey Skylands Insurance Company and Mountain Valley Indemnity Company. 29 Table of Contents Management expects these rating actions, in combination with other items that have impacted the Company in 2013, to result in a decrease in the amount of premiums the insurance subsidiaries are able to write. Such rating actions also have and may continue to cause concern among our agents, brokers and policyholders, resulting in a movement of business away from our insurance subsidiaries to other stronger or more highly rated insurance carriers. Because many of our agents and brokers (whom we refer to as “producers”) and policyholders purchase our policies on the basis of our current ratings, any reduction of our ratings could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain or expand our policyholder base. Similarly, the reduction of our financial strength ratings could have the effect of materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders by policyholders, requiring us to reduce prices for certain of our products and services to remain competitive, adversely affecting our ability to attract and retain our more profitable books of business, and adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices, or at all. Such rating actions, and any further ratings downgrades also will negatively impact our ability to raise capital and have had and will have a negative impact on our overall liquidity. Because lenders and reinsurers will use our A.M. Best ratings as a factor in deciding whether to transact business with us, the failure of our insurance subsidiaries to maintain their financial strength ratings may dissuade a financial institution or reinsurance company from conducting any business with us or may increase our interest or reinsurance costs. For example, many of our ceded reinsurance contracts, including those entered into in September 2013, as disclosed in our Current Report on Form 8-K, dated September 23, 2013, have ratings triggers, which permit the assuming reinsurer to terminate their agreement to reinsure us if our A.M. Best rating is below “A-”. It is possible that A.M. Best, Fitch or Demotech could downgrade our ratings further or remove such ratings, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our reciprocal business does not perform well or is downgraded, we may be required to recognize further impairment of our intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Intangible assets represent the amount of fair value assigned to certain assets when we acquire a subsidiary or a book of business. Intangible assets are classified as having either a finite or an indefinite life. We test the recoverability of indefinite life intangibles at least annually. We test the recoverability of finite life intangibles whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a finite life intangible may not be recoverable. An impairment is recognized if the carrying value of an intangible asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value, in which circumstance we write down the intangible asset by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to income. If our reciprocal business does not perform well or the reciprocal exchanges are downgraded, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our intangible assets. Such write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A decrease in the capital and surplus of our insurance subsidiaries may result in a further downgrade of our credit and insurer financial strength ratings. In any particular year, our statutory surplus amounts and risk based capital (“RBC”) ratios may increase or decrease depending on a variety of factors, including the amount of statutory income or losses generated by our insurance subsidiaries, the amount of additional capital our insurance subsidiaries must hold to support business growth, changes in reserving requirements, the value of certain fixed-income and equity securities in our investment portfolio, changes in interest rates, as well as changes to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners’ (“NAIC”) RBC formulas. See “Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements. Failure to meet these requirements could subject us to regulatory action” below. Most of these factors are outside of our control. Our credit and insurer financial strength ratings are significantly influenced by our statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios. In addition, rating agencies may implement changes to their internal models that have the effect of increasing or decreasing the amount of statutory capital we must hold in order to maintain our current ratings. Increases in reserves reduce the statutory surplus used in calculating our RBC ratios. To the extent that our statutory capital resources are deemed to be insufficient to maintain a particular rating by one or more rating agencies, we may seek to raise additional capital through one or more financings, which may be unavailable or on terms not as favorable as in the past. Alternatively, if we were not to raise additional capital in such a scenario, either at our discretion or because we were unable to do so, our financial strength and credit ratings might be further reduced by one or more rating agencies, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information on risks regarding our ability to raise capital, as well as our ratings, see “We may be unable to implement our proposed capital improvement strategy or, if implemented, it may not achieve its anticipated benefits, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations” below and “Recent declines in the ratings assigned to us and our insurance subsidiaries by A.M. Best, Fitch and Demotech, as well as any future ratings downgrades, could affect our ability to write new business, our standing among brokers, agents and insureds and cause our sales and earnings to decrease” above. We may be unable to implement our proposed capital improvement strategy or, if implemented, it may not achieve its anticipated benefits, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If the Company does not close on the ACP Re Merger Agreement prior to September 15, 2014, the Company’s plan to repay the Notes includes a combination of using proceeds from the sale of assets held at TGI as well as using proceeds generated by other strategic alternatives and to the extent necessary, issuing debt or equity securities to pay down the principal of the Notes. The Company can provide no assurance that it will be successful in generating sufficient funds to repay the Notes by selling assets held at TGI, pursuing other strategic alternatives or issuing new debt or equity securities. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to remedy its current statutory capital deficiencies in certain of its insurance subsidiaries or maintain adequate levels of statutory capital in the future. Consequently, there is substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. See “There is substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.” Should the Company no longer continue to support its capital or liquidity needs, or should the Company be unable to successfully execute the above mentioned initiatives, such failures would have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial position. 30 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that we will execute our capital improvement strategy or sell new debt or equity securities in a timely manner or at all. In addition, we may face unanticipated difficulties or costs in pursuing the capital improvement strategy or the sale of new debt or equity securities and, even if implemented, the capital improvement strategy or the sale of new debt or equity securities may not achieve its anticipated benefits. For example, any such transaction (or related transaction) may result in diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, a failure to achieve our financial or operating objectives, potential loss of policyholders or key employees, and volatility in the prices of our securities. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to meet ongoing cash requirements and pay dividends may be limited by our holding company structure and regulatory constraints. TGIL is a holding company and, as such, has no direct operations of its own. We do not expect TGIL to have any significant operations or assets other than its ownership of the shares of its operating subsidiaries. Dividends and other permitted payments from our operating subsidiaries are expected to be our primary source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including any future debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay dividends, if any, to our shareholders. As of December 31, 2013 and as of the date hereof, none of our insurance subsidiaries could pay to us any distributions without approval. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay ordinary and extraordinary dividends must be considered in relation to the impact on key financial measurement ratios, including RBC ratios and A.M. Best’s Capital Adequacy Ratio, which in turn could affect our A.M. Best rating. As a result, at times, we may not be able to receive dividends from our insurance subsidiaries in amounts necessary to meet our ongoing cash requirements, including any future debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay dividends to our shareholders. Furthermore, as a result of our recent reserve increases, we incurred a material loss and decrease in our insurance subsidiaries’ capital and surplus, which will reduce their dividend paying capacity until they once again generate a profit and rebuild their surplus levels. See “Although we have paid cash dividends in the past, we did not pay a dividend in the fourth quarter of 2013 and we likely will not pay cash dividends in the near future” below. Accordingly, if you require dividend income you should carefully consider these risks before making an investment in our Company. If we are not able to receive dividends and other permitted payments from our operating subsidiaries in amounts necessary to meet our ongoing cash requirements, such inability could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operation and financial position. See “There is substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.” Although we have paid cash dividends in the past, we did not pay a dividend in the fourth quarter of 2013 and we likely will not pay cash dividends in the near future. On November 14, 2013, the Company announced that its Board of Directors determined that it would not declare and pay a dividend to shareholders in the fourth quarter of 2013. We are precluded from paying dividends without the consent of ACP Re pursuant to the ACP Re Merger Agreement. We do not intend to pay any dividends prior to the consummation of the merger. Future cash dividends would only be considered if the merger agreement were not consummated, and future cash dividends will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and other factors, including the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us, which ability is restricted in the manner previously discussed in this section. There can be no assurance that we will resume paying dividends in the future even if the necessary financial conditions are met and if sufficient cash is available for distribution. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements. Failure to meet these requirements could subject us to regulatory action. The Company is required to maintain minimum capital and surplus for each of its insurance subsidiaries. U.S. based insurance companies are required to maintain capital and surplus above Company Action Level, which is a calculated capital and surplus number using a risk-based formula adopted by the state insurance regulators. The basis for this formula is the National Association of Insurance Commissioners’ (“NAIC’s”) risk-based capital (“RBC”) system and is designed to measure the adequacy of a U.S. regulated insurer’s statutory capital and surplus compared to risks inherent in its business. If an insurance entity falls into Company Action Level, its management is required to submit a comprehensive financial plan that identifies the conditions that contributed to the financial condition. This plan must contain proposals to correct the financial problems and provide projections of the financial condition, both with and without the proposed corrections. The plan must also outline the key assumptions underlying the projections and identify the quality of, and problems associated with, the underlying business. Depending on the level of actual capital and surplus in comparison to the Company Action Level, the state insurance regulators could increase their regulatory oversight, restrict the placement of new business, or place the company under regulatory control. Bermuda based insurance entities minimum capital and surplus requirements are calculated from a solvency formula prescribed by the Bermuda Monetary Authority (the “BMA”). Tower has in place several intercompany reinsurance transactions between its U.S. based insurance subsidiaries and its Bermuda based insurance subsidiaries. The U.S. based insurance subsidiaries have historically reinsured on a quota share basis obligations to CastlePoint Reinsurance Company (“CastlePoint Re”), one of its Bermuda based insurance subsidiaries. The 2013 obligations that CastlePoint Re assumes from the U.S. based insurance subsidiaries are then retroceded to TRL, Tower’s other Bermuda 31 Table of Contents based insurance subsidiary. In addition, CastlePoint Re also entered into a loss portfolio transaction with TRL where its reserves associated with the U.S. insurance subsidiary business for underwriting years prior to 2013 were all transferred to TRL. CastlePoint Re is required to collateralize $648.9 million of its assumed reserves in a reinsurance trust for the benefit of TICNY, the lead pool company of the U.S. insurance companies. On February 5, 2014, the BMA approved the transfer of $167.3 million in unencumbered liquid assets from TRL to CastlePoint Re, allowing CastlePoint Re to increase the funding in the reinsurance trust for the benefit of TICNY. The New York State Department of Financial Services (the “NYDFS”) has confirmed this will be acceptable for the purpose of admitted surplus and capital on TICNY’s 2013 statutory basis financial statements. For the 2013 statutory basis financial statements, CastlePoint Re reported $581.7 million in its reinsurance trust. Based on RBC calculations as of December 31, 2013, six of Tower’s ten U.S. based insurance subsidiaries have capital and surplus below Company Action Level and do not meet the minimum capital and surplus requirements of their respective state regulators. As a result, management has discussed the ACP Re Merger Agreement and the Cut- Through Reinsurance Agreement and provided its 2014 RBC forecasts to the regulators to document the Company’s business plan to bring two of these U.S based insurance subsidiaries’ capital and surplus levels above Company Action Level. As a result of the recognition of the ceding commission relating to the Cut-Through Reinsurance Agreements executed with AmTrust and NGHC in January 2014, the U.S. based insurance subsidiaries’ capital and surplus will increase significantly from December 31, 2013 to January 1, 2014, as the U.S. based subsidiaries will transfer a significant portion of their commercial lines unearned premium to a subsidiary of AmTrust and all of their personal lines unearned premiums to a subsidiary of NGHC. Accordingly, as of January 1, 2014, the effect of the Cut-Through Reinsurance Agreements increased the surplus of two of the U.S. based insurance subsidiaries such that their capital and surplus levels exceeded Company Action Level. In 2013, the NYDFS issued orders for seven of Tower’s insurance subsidiaries, subjecting them to heightened regulatory oversight, which includes providing the NYDFS with increased information with respect to the insurance subsidiaries’ business, operations and financial condition. In addition, the NYDFS has placed limitations on payments and transactions outside the ordinary course of business and material changes in the insurance subsidiaries’ management and related matters. Tower’s management and Board of Directors have held discussions with the NYDFS, and Tower has been complying with the orders and oversight. On April 21, 2014, the NYDFS issued additional orders for two of Tower’s insurance subsidiaries instructing them to provide plans to address weaknesses in such insurance subsidiaries’ risk based capital levels as shown in their statutory annual financial statements, and imposing further enhanced reporting and prior approval requirements and limitations on writings of new business. On the same date, the NYDFS issued a letter pertaining to one of Tower’s insurance subsidiaries requiring the submission of a plan to address weaknesses in risk based capital levels. The Massachusetts Division of Insurance (“MDOI”) and Tower management have agreed to certain restrictions on the operations of Tower’s two Massachusetts domiciled insurance subsidiaries. Tower management has agreed to cause these subsidiaries to provide the MDOI with increased information with respect to their business, operations and financial condition, as well as limitations on payments and transactions outside the ordinary course of business and material changes in their management and related matters. The Maine Bureau of Insurance entered a Corrective Order imposing certain conditions on Maine domestic insurers York Insurance Company of Maine (“YICM”) and North East Insurance Company (“NEIC”). The Corrective Order imposes increased reporting obligations on YICM and NEIC with respect to business operations and financial condition and imposes restrictions on payments or other transfers of assets from YICM and NEIC outside the ordinary course of business. On April 11, 2014, the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance imposed an enhanced reporting requirement on the intercompany transactions involving Tower’s two New Jersey domiciled insurance subsidiaries and Tower’s New Jersey managed insurer. Such companies are now required to submit for prior approval any transactions with affiliates, even transactions that would otherwise not be reportable under the applicable holding company act. As of December 31, 2013, TRL and CastlePoint Re had capital and surplus that did not meet the minimum solvency requirements of the BMA. Management has discussed the ACP Re Merger Agreement and provided 2014 solvency forecasts to the BMA. The BMA has issued directives for TRL and CastlePoint Re, subjecting them to heightened regulatory oversight and requiring BMA approval before certain transactions can be executed. Tower has been complying with the directives issued by the BMA. If our actual unpaid loss and loss adjustment expenses as of a particular point in time exceed our loss reserves or we determine that our estimates with respect to such loss reserves are inadequate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly adversely affected. Our business, financial condition and results of operations depend upon our ability to estimate the potential losses associated with the risks that we insure and reinsure. We estimate loss and loss adjustment expense reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred under the policies that we write. Loss reserves include case reserves, which are established for specific claims that have been reported to us, and reserves for claims that have been incurred but not reported (“IBNR”). 32 Table of Contents Establishing an aggregate level of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves involves estimations, opinions and judgments and is, accordingly, an inherently uncertain process. For example, the reserving process for losses on the liability coverage portions of our commercial and personal lines policies possesses characteristics that make case and IBNR reserving inherently less susceptible to accurate actuarial estimation. Liability losses are claims made by third parties of which the policyholder may not be aware and therefore may be reported a significant amount of time, sometimes years, after the occurrence. As liability claims most often involve claims of bodily injury, assessment of the proper case reserve is a subjective process. In addition, the determination of a case reserve for a liability claim is often without the benefit of information, which develops slowly over the life of the claim and can subject the case reserve to substantial modification well after the claim was first reported. Numerous factors impact the liability case reserving process, including venue, the amount of monetary damage, the permanence of the injury, and the age of the claimant among other factors. To the extent that loss and loss adjustment expenses exceed our estimates, we likely would be required to increase loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. Actual loss and loss adjustment expenses paid may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our consolidated financial statements. It is possible that claims could exceed our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. In such case, any required reserve increase would be recognized as an expense during the period or periods in which these determinations are made, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition or results of operations. Depending on the severity and timing of any changes in these estimated losses, such determinations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As noted above, we increased our loss reserves by $539.8 million with respect to the Commercial Insurance segment as of December 31, 2013, which resulted in an unfavorable effect on net income. This reserve increase has had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Note 10-Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense” to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Given the contingencies and uncertainties described above, there can be no assurance that we have accurately estimated our loss and loss adjustment reserves, and further revisions to these estimates may occur in the future, which may require us to further increase these reserves. If increases to our loss and loss adjustment reserves become necessary, this may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, many of our quota share reinsurance agreements contain provisions for a ceding commission under which the commission rate that we receive varies inversely with the loss ratio on the ceded premiums, with higher commission rates corresponding to lower loss ratios and vice versa. The loss ratio depends on our estimate of the loss and loss adjustment expense reserves on the ceded business. As a result, the same uncertainties associated with estimating loss and loss adjustment expense reserves affect the estimates of ceding commissions earned. If and to the extent that we have to increase our reserves on the business that is subject to these reinsurance agreements, we may have to reduce the ceding commission rate, which would amplify the reduction in our net income in the period in which the increase in our reserves is made. For example, in connection with our December 31, 2013 reserve increase, the related decrease in our ceding commission rate resulted in additional loss for the year ended December 31, 2013 of $9.6 million. A substantial amount of our business currently comes from a limited geographical area. Any single catastrophe or other condition affecting losses in this area could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our insurance subsidiaries currently write a substantial amount of their business in the Northeast United States. As a result, a single catastrophe occurrence, destructive weather pattern, terrorist attack, regulatory development or other condition or general economic trend affecting the region within which we conduct our business could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations more significantly than that of other insurance companies that conduct business across a broader geographical area. We may incur catastrophe losses in excess of: (1) those experienced in prior years, (2) the average expected level used in pricing, (3) our current reinsurance coverage limits, or (4) our estimate of loss from external hurricane and earthquake models at various levels of probability. We may be exposed to catastrophes that could have a material adverse effect on operating results and financial condition. Our liquidity could be constrained by a catastrophe, or multiple catastrophes, which result in extraordinary losses or a downgrade of our credit issuer or financial strength ratings. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable and our losses from catastrophes could be substantial. The occurrence of claims from catastrophic events is likely to result in substantial volatility in our business, financial condition or results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to write new business. Increases in the values and concentrations of insured property may increase the severity of such occurrences in the future. Although we attempt to manage our exposure to such events, including through the use of reinsurance, the frequency or severity of catastrophic events could exceed our estimates. As a result, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 33 Table of Contents If we cannot obtain adequate reinsurance protection for the risks we have underwritten, we may be exposed to greater losses from these risks or we may reduce the amount of business we underwrite, which will reduce our revenues. Under state insurance law, insurance companies are required to maintain a certain level of capital in support of the policies they issue. In addition, rating agencies will reduce an insurance company’s ratings if the Company’s premiums exceed specified multiples of its capital. As a result, the level of our insurance subsidiaries’ statutory surplus and capital limits the amount of premiums that they can write and on which they can retain risk. Historically, we have utilized reinsurance to expand our capacity to write more business than our insurance subsidiaries’ surplus would have otherwise supported. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, insurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that they consider adequate for their business needs. These conditions could produce unfavorable changes in prices, reduced ceding commission revenue or other potentially adverse changes in the terms of reinsurance. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain our desired amounts of reinsurance. In addition, even if we are able to obtain such reinsurance, we may not be able to obtain such reinsurance from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness or negotiate terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable. Similarly, our business, reputation, ratings and financial condition affect our ability to obtain reinsurance on favorable terms. Accordingly, at times we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. Even if we are able to obtain reinsurance, our reinsurers may not pay losses in a timely fashion, or at all, which may cause a substantial loss and increase our costs. As of December 31, 2013, we had a net balance due us from our reinsurers of $826.4 million, consisting of $570.9 million in reinsurance recoverables on unpaid losses, $69.0 million in reinsurance recoverables on paid losses and $186.5 million in prepaid reinsurance premiums. Since 2003, we have sought to manage our exposure to our reinsurers by placing our quota share reinsurance on a “funds withheld” basis and requiring any non-admitted reinsurers to collateralize their share of unearned premium and loss reserves. Our net exposure (which considers collateral available to the Company) to our reinsurers totaled $185.3 million as of December 31, 2013. As of December 31, 2013, our largest net exposure to any one reinsurer was $56.4 million, related to ACE Property and Casualty Insurance Company which is rated A++ by A.M. Best. As of December 31, 2013, our largest balance due from any one reinsurer (before considering any collateral) was $348.0 million, which was due from Southport Re which is not rated. This balance was settled in the first quarter of 2014 upon cancellation of the Southport Re agreements. Because we remain primarily liable to our policyholders for the payment of their claims, in the event that one of our reinsurers under an uncollateralized treaty became insolvent or refused to reimburse us for losses paid, or delayed in reimbursing us for losses paid, our cash flow and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive environment. If we are unsuccessful in competing against larger or more well-established rivals, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive and has historically been characterized by periods of significant pricing competition alternating with periods of greater pricing discipline, during which competition focuses on other factors. Beginning in 2000, the market environment was increasingly favorable as rates increased significantly. During the latter part of 2004 and throughout 2005, increased competition in the marketplace became evident and, as a result, average annual rate increases became moderate. The catastrophe losses of 2004 and 2005 produced increased pricing and reduced capacity for insurance of catastrophe-exposed property. However, a softening of the non-catastrophe-exposed market in 2006 through 2009 has led to more aggressive pricing in specific segments of the commercial lines business, particularly in those lines of business and accounts with larger annual premiums. The new capacity that had entered the market had placed more pressure on production and profitability targets. A.M. Best had stated that industry policyholder surplus grew annually from 2003-2012 except for declines in 2008 and 2011. However, industry policyholder surplus increased by 10.4% to $666.3 billion in 2013 from 2012. This places the premium-to-surplus ratio at 0.73:1.0 as of December 31, 2013. We also face competition because of entities that self-insure, primarily in the commercial insurance market. From time to time, established and potential customers may examine the benefits and risks of self-insurance and other alternatives to traditional insurance. In our commercial and personal lines admitted business segments, we have historically competed with major U.S. insurers and certain underwriting syndicates, including large national companies such as Travelers Companies, Inc., Allstate Insurance Company, GEICO, Progressive Corporation and State Farm Insurance; regional insurers such as Selective Insurance Company, Hanover Insurance and Peerless Insurance Company and smaller, more local competitors such as Greater New York Mutual, 34 Table of Contents Magna Carta Companies, MMI Insurance Company, Quincy Mutual Fire Insurance Company and Utica First Insurance Company. Our non-admitted binding authority and commercial business with general agents historically competed with Scottsdale Insurance Company, Admiral Insurance Company, Mt. Hawley Insurance Company, Navigators Group, Inc., Essex Insurance Company, Colony Insurance Company, Century Insurance Group, Nautilus Insurance Group, RLI Corp., United States Liability Insurance Group and Burlington Insurance Group, Inc. In our program business, we competed against competitors that write program business such as QBE Insurance Group Limited, Delos Insurance Group, Am Trust Financial Services, Inc., RLI Corp., W.R. Berkley Corporation, Markel Corporation, Great American Insurance Group and Philadelphia Insurance Companies. Many of these companies have greater financial, marketing and management resources and better access to the capital markets than we do and also have more experience, better ratings and more market recognition than we do. In addition, our recent need to significantly increase our reserves, the booking of goodwill and fixed asset impairment charges and A.M. Best’s, Fitch’s and Demotech’s related ratings actions, together with our delay in filing on a timely basis the Form 10-Qs for the periods ended June 30, 2013 and September 30, 2013 and this Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, our decision to restate our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 and revise our Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2013 have had a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to compete for insurance and assumed reinsurance business. In addition, such actions have had a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to raise capital. Such actions and events also may cause concern among our agents, brokers and policyholders, resulting in a movement of business away from our insurance subsidiaries to other stronger or more highly rated insurance carriers, which will further adversely affect our competitive position. Because of these competitive pressures, there can be no assurance that we can compete effectively with our industry rivals, or that such pressures will not have a further material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. This includes competition for our producers. See “Since we depend on a core of selected producers for a large portion of our revenues, loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us.” In the event we are unable to attract and retain these producers or they are unable to attract and retain customers for our products, growth and retention could be materially affected. Furthermore, certain competitors operate using a mutual insurance company structure and therefore may have dissimilar profitability and return targets. In addition to competition in the operation of our business, we face competition from a variety of sources in attracting and retaining qualified employees. Our ability to operate may also be impaired if we are not effective in filling critical leadership positions, in developing the talent and skills of our human resources, in assimilating new executive talent into our organization, or in deploying human resource talent consistently with our business goals. Currently pending or future litigation, regulatory inquiries or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including injunctions, judgments or settlements. We are, and from time to time become, involved in lawsuits (including class-action suits), regulatory inquiries and governmental and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business. Our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. In connection with our insurance operations, plaintiffs’ lawyers may bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. Many of these matters raise difficult and complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties and complexities. The timing of the final resolutions of these types of matters is often uncertain. The possible outcomes or resolutions of these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments or changes in the manner in which we conduct our business, and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state and federal regulators and other authorities. On February 21, 2013, the DFS announced that it was investigating certain insurers, including our largest insurance subsidiary, TICNY, for unacceptable claims practices in New York related to Superstorm Sandy. In connection with such investigation, the DFS previously issued an Insurance Law Section 308 letter to TICNY, which directed TICNY to provide information and supporting documentation and to which TICNY, as a New York-domiciled insurer, is legally required to respond. We are cooperating with the DFS in connection with such inquiry. We have responded to the DFS that the allegations in this matter do not constitute a pattern or practice. The investigation is still ongoing. Although we do not believe that the investigation will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations or that we will be subject to material sanctions or other penalties, we are unable to predict the outcome of the investigation or whether Superstorm Sandy-related claims practices will result in additional regulatory inquiries or legal proceedings. We are also involved in a number of putative securities class action lawsuits brought by alleged shareholders alleging violations of the federal securities laws in connection with, among other things, purported false and misleading statements concerning our loss reserve estimates. We are also involved in a number of lawsuits alleging violations of federal and Bermuda law in 35 Table of Contents connection with Tower’s entry into the ACP Re Merger Agreement and the related proxy statement. We believe that it is not probable that these lawsuits will result in a loss and if they would result in a loss, that the amount of any loss cannot be reasonably estimated. There can be no assurances that a favorable final outcome will be obtained in these cases, and defending any lawsuit is costly and can impose a significant burden on management and employees. Any litigation to which we are a party may result in an onerous or unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal or in payments of substantial monetary damages, or we may decide to settle lawsuits on similarly unfavorable terms, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which have resulted in material misstatements in our financial statements and required us to restate our financial results and, if such material weaknesses are not remediated or additional weaknesses are identified in the future, could result in future material misstatements or omissions in our financial statements. As disclosed in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Amendment No. 2 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 and Item 4 of Amendment No. 1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2013, Tower’s management concluded the Company did not maintain an effective monitoring of its controls and resources. The Company was not effective in executing the documented controls, monitoring the control performance and identifying and responding to control deficiencies. The material weakness in monitoring of controls and resources contributed to the following material weaknesses: (1) We did not maintain effective controls over the effectiveness of the loss reserve estimation process. Specifically, the Company did not maintain effective control to effectively review and approve all significant assumptions, methodologies and data used to determine the actuarial central estimate. (2) We did not maintain effective controls over the premium receivable account reconciliation. Specifically, the Company did not maintain effective controls to effectively investigate and resolve reconciling items on a timely basis. (3) We did not maintain effective controls over the impairment process of the long-lived tangible and intangible assets. Specifically, the Company did not evaluate all the triggering events indicating that the carrying value of its long-lived tangible and intangible assets may not be recoverable during 2013. The long-lived tangible and intangible assets include furniture, leasehold improvements, computer equipment, software, including internally developed software, and agency force lists. (4) We did not maintain effective controls over the effectiveness of the tax valuation allowance estimation process. Specifically, the Company did not determine and monitor its valuation allowance of net deferred tax asset and the accuracy of its deferred taxes. (5) We did not maintain effective control over certain information technology general controls. Specifically, the Company did not design and maintain effective controls with respect to segregation of duties, restricted access to programs and data, and change management activities. Consequently, controls that were dependent on the effective operation of information technology were not effectively designed to include adequate review of system generated data used in the operation of the controls and were determined not to be operating effectively and therefore could result in material misstatement of substantially all financial statement line items. (6) We did not maintain effective controls over the period-end financial reporting process. Specifically, the company did not maintain sufficient personnel to perform its period-end financial reporting process effectively, including preparation and review of account reconciliations and evaluation of the accounting requirements resulting from recent events and circumstances. This in turn affected the timely preparation and review of interim and annual consolidated financial statements. Tower’s management is implementing measures to remediate the material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting described above. Specifically, management is seeking to improve communications among its actuarial, underwriting, financial and claims personnel involved on the loss reserve committee regarding the importance of documentation of its assessments and conclusions of its meetings, as well as supporting analyses. Management also continues to improve its systems to facilitate the gathering of underlying data used in the actuarial reserving process. Until such time as management and the Board have concluded that this process is performing effectively, management intends to engage external consulting resources that will perform a quarterly actuarial study to assist the Company in estimating its loss reserves, and reviewing and critiquing the loss reserve committee documentation during the financial reporting process In addition, (i) the Company has obtained additional resources and enhanced the production of key reports to improve the accuracy of the elements used in its premiums receivable reconciliation process and timely evaluation and disposal of the reconciling items noted during the premiums reconciliation process, and 36 Table of Contents (ii) Management is designing enhanced controls to ensure long-lived tangible and intangible assets are evaluated timely for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. (iii) Management is developing a more formal recertification process for its information technology group that encompasses privilege at a financially significant level rather that at an application level. (iv) Management will explicitly incorporate the duration of tax assets and liabilities into its valuation allowance calculation and will work to improve the accuracy of the reconciliations of tax bases and statutory/GAAP bases. (v) Management is evaluating and realigning the resource allocation within the financial processes, including the use of consulting specialists, to ensure appropriate and timely completion and review of account reconciliations and the evaluation of unique accounting situations that arise from recent events. As a result of the material weaknesses described above, in the past, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective to timely prevent or detect inadvertent errors in its consolidated financial statements which led to the need to restate or revise its financial statements, as well as delays in some of its filings. If the Company’s efforts to remediate the weaknesses identified are not successful, or if other deficiencies occur, these weaknesses or deficiencies could also result in future misstatements of the Company’s results of operations, which could, among other things, result in additional restatements or revisions of the Company’s consolidated financial statements and/or further delays in the Company’s filings, and could have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. As a result of the merger transaction between Tower Group, Inc. and Canopius Holdings (Bermuda) Limited, the Company will continue to incur additional direct and indirect costs. The Company will continue to incur additional costs and expenses in connection with and as a result of the merger transaction between TGI and CHBL in March 2013. These costs and expenses include professional fees to comply with Bermuda corporate and tax laws and financial reporting requirements, costs and expenses incurred in connection with holding meetings of the Company’s Board of Directors and certain executive management meetings outside of the United States, as well as any additional costs the Company may incur going forward as a result of its new corporate structure. There can be no assurance that these costs will not exceed the costs historically borne by TGI and CHBL. We may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations. We report our financial information in U.S. dollars. We limit, when possible, capital levels in local currencies, subject to the satisfaction of minimum regulatory requirements and the support of our local insurance operations. In addition, we enter into reinsurance and insurance contracts where we are obligated to pay losses in currencies other than U.S. dollars. The principal currency currently creating foreign exchange risk is the British pound sterling. Currently, less than 5 percent of our net assets are denominated in foreign currencies. We may experience losses resulting from fluctuations in the values of non-U.S. currencies, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The Bermudian regulatory system, and potential changes thereto, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Bermuda statutes, regulations and policies of the BMA, require Bermuda reinsurers to maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus and liquidity, to meet solvency standards, to obtain prior approval of ownership and transfer of shares (in certain circumstances) and to submit to certain periodic examinations of its financial condition. These statutes and regulations may, in effect, restrict the ability of Bermuda-based reinsurance subsidiaries of the Company, such as TRL, to write insurance and reinsurance policies, to make certain investments and to distribute funds. See “Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements. Failure to meet these requirements could subject us to regulatory action.” and “The regulatory system under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our business.” The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations. Various provisions of our policies, including, but not limited to, limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, which have been negotiated to limit our risks, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend. At the present time we employ a variety of endorsements to our policies that limit exposure to known risks, including but not limited to exclusions relating to coverage for lead paint poisoning, asbestos and most claims for bodily injury or property damage resulting from the release of pollutants. In addition, the policies we issue contain conditions requiring the prompt reporting of claims to us and our right to decline coverage in the event of a violation of that condition. Our policies also include limitations restricting the period in which a 37 Table of Contents policyholder may bring a breach of contract or other claim against us, which in many cases is shorter than the statutory limitations for such claims in the states in which we write business. While these exclusions and limitations reduce the loss exposure to us and help eliminate known exposures to certain risks, it is possible that a court or regulatory authority could nullify or void an exclusion or legislation could be enacted modifying or barring the use of such endorsements and limitations in a way that would adversely affect our loss experience, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We may face substantial exposure to losses from terrorism, and we are currently required by law to provide coverage against such losses. Our location and amount of business written in New York City and adjacent areas by our insurance subsidiaries may expose us to losses from terrorism. U.S. insurers are required by state and Federal law to offer coverage for terrorism in certain lines. Although our insurance subsidiaries are protected by the federally funded terrorism reinsurance, there is a substantial deductible that must be met, the payment of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. See “Business — Reinsurance.” As a consequence of this legislation, potential losses from a terrorist attack could be substantially larger than previously expected, could also adversely affect our ability to obtain reinsurance on favorable terms, including pricing, and may affect our underwriting strategy, rating, and other elements of our operation. Also, there can be no assurance that this federally funded terrorism reinsurance will be available after 2014. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. Since we depend on a core of selected producers for a large portion of our revenues, loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us. Our products are marketed by independent producers. In our Commercial segment, these independent producers are comprised of retail agents, wholesale agents who aggregate business from retail agents and program underwriting agents. In our Personal segment, these independent producers are comprised of retail and wholesale agents and managing general agencies who handle various underwriting and policy issuance tasks on our behalf and who generally accept submissions from various other independent producers. Other insurance companies compete with us for the services and allegiance of these producers. These producers may choose to direct business to our competitors, or may direct less desirable risks to us. In our Commercial segment, approximately 45% of the 2013 gross premiums written, including premiums produced by our managing general agency subsidiaries on behalf of their issuing companies, were produced by our top 19 producers, representing 2% of our active agents and brokers. These producers each have annual written premiums of $5 million or more. As we build a broader territorial base, the number of producers with significant premium volumes with Tower in each of our segments is increasing. Our largest producers (exclusive of assumed reinsurance brokers) in 2013 were Northeast Agencies, Risk Transfer and Morstan General Agency. In the year ended December 31, 2013, these producers accounted for 8.8%, 5.2% and 4.2%, respectively, of the total of our gross premiums written. No other producer was responsible for more than 3% of our gross premiums written. A significant decrease in business from any of our largest producers would cause us to lose premium and require us to seek alternative producers or to increase submissions from existing producers. In the event we are unable to find replacement producers or increase business produced by our existing producers, our premium revenues would decrease and our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our reliance on producers subjects us to their credit risk. With respect to the premiums produced by one of our managing general agents (“MGA”) for its issuing companies and a limited amount of premium volume written by our insurance subsidiaries, producers collect premiums from the policyholders and forward them to our MGA and our insurance subsidiaries. In most jurisdictions, when the insured pays premiums for these policies to producers for payment over to our MGA or our insurance subsidiaries, the premiums are considered to have been paid under applicable insurance laws and regulations, and the insured will no longer be liable to us for those amounts whether or not we have actually received the premiums from the producer. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with producers. Although producers’ failures to remit premiums to us have not caused a material adverse impact on us to date, there have been instances where producers collected premiums but did not remit them to us, and we were nonetheless required under applicable law to provide the coverage set forth in the policy despite the absence of premiums. Because the possibility of these 38 Table of Contents events is dependent in large part upon the financial condition and internal operations of our producers, which in most cases is not public information, we are not able to quantify the exposure presented by this risk. If we are unable to collect premiums from our producers in the future, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our acquisitions could result in integration difficulties, unexpected expenses, diversion of management’s attention and other negative consequences. We have made numerous acquisitions in recent years. We attempt to integrate the technology, operations, systems and personnel of acquired businesses with our own and attempt to grow the acquired businesses as part of our company. The integration of other businesses is a complex process and places significant demands on our management, financial, technical and other resources. If we are unsuccessful in integrating these businesses, our financial and operating performance could suffer. The risks and challenges associated with the acquisition and integration of acquired businesses include: • We may be unable to efficiently consolidate our financial, operational and administrative functions with those of the businesses we have acquired; • Our management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns; • We may be unable to retain and motivate key employees of an acquired company; • Litigation, indemnification claims and other unforeseen claims and liabilities may arise from the acquisition or operation of acquired businesses; • The costs necessary to complete integration exceed our expectations or outweigh some of the intended benefits of the transactions we complete; • We may be unable to maintain the customers or goodwill of an acquired business; and • The costs necessary to improve or replace the operating systems, products and services of acquired businesses may exceed our expectations. We have not fully integrated several of our recent acquisitions, and this failure has led to delays in financial reporting and material weaknesses in our internal controls (see “We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which have resulted in material misstatements in our financial statements and required us to restate our financial results and, if such material weaknesses are not remediated or additional weaknesses are identified in the future, could result in future material misstatements or omissions in our financial statements” for additional information). We may not be able to integrate our acquisitions successfully with our operations on schedule or at all. There can be no assurances that we will not incur large expenses in connection with business units we acquire. Further, there can be no assurances that acquisitions will result in cost savings or sufficient revenues or earnings to justify our investment in, or our expenses related to, these acquisitions. We could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more principal employees or by an inability to attract and retain staff. Our success will depend in substantial part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers, experienced underwriting talent and other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about our business. We rely substantially upon the services of our executive management team. If we were to lose the services of members of our key management team, our business could be adversely affected. While we believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining key personnel throughout our history, we have recently experienced the departure of a number of employees. We have employment agreements with William W. Fox, Jr., our President and Chief Executive Officer, and other members of our senior management team. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to our employees. Our investment performance may suffer as a result of adverse capital market developments or other factors, which may affect our financial results and ability to conduct business. We invest the premiums we receive from policyholders until they are needed to pay policyholder claims or other expenses. At December 31, 2013, our invested assets, including the Reciprocal Exchanges’, consisted of $1.6 billion in fixed maturity securities and $106.7 million in equity securities at fair value. Additionally, we held $396.0 million in cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and other invested assets. In 2013, we earned $107.5 million of net investment income representing 6.3% of our total revenues. At December 31, 2013, we had unrealized gains of $64.1 million, which could change significantly depending on changes in market conditions. Our funds are primarily invested by outside professional investment advisory management firms under the direction of our management team in accordance with detailed investment guidelines set by us. Although our investment policies stress diversification of risks, conservation of principal and liquidity, our investments are subject to a variety of investment risks, including risks relating to general economic conditions, market volatility, interest rate fluctuations, liquidity risk and credit and default risk. (Interest rate risk is discussed below under the heading, “We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes.”) In particular, negative revenue and liquidity issues in various states and municipalities and future legislative changes could have unfavorable implications on our $1.6 billion bond portfolio. 39 Table of Contents The volatility of our claims may force us to liquidate securities, which may cause us to incur capital losses. If we do not structure our investment portfolio so that it is appropriately matched with our insurance and reinsurance liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to cover such liabilities. Investment losses could significantly decrease our asset base and statutory surplus, thereby affecting our ability to conduct business. We recognized net realized capital gains for 2013 of $25.0 million which included other-than-temporary-impairment (“OTTI”) charges of $13.4 million. The OTTI charges were primarily the result of write-downs of our securities. As a result of the market volatility, we may experience difficulty in determining accurately the value of our various investments. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our operating results are affected, in part, by the performance of our investment portfolio. General economic conditions affect the markets for interest rate sensitive securities, including the level and volatility of interest rates and the extent and timing of investor participation in such markets. Unexpected changes in general economic conditions could create volatility or illiquidity in these markets in which we hold positions and harm our investment return. Our investment portfolio is primarily comprised of interest rate sensitive instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. A significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Generally, bond prices decrease as interest rates rise. Changes in interest rates could also have an adverse effect on our investment income and results of operations. For example, if interest rates decline, investment of new premiums received and funds reinvested may earn less than expected. In addition to the normal market risk, mortgage-backed securities contain prepayment and extension risk that differ from other financial instrument and constituted 14.1% of our invested assets, including cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2013. As with other fixed income investments, the fair market value of these securities fluctuates depending on market and other general economic conditions and the interest rate environment. Changes in interest rates can also expose us to prepayment risks on these investments. When interest rates fall, mortgage-backed securities may be prepaid more quickly than expected and the holder must reinvest the proceeds at lower interest rates. Certain of our mortgage-backed securities currently consist of securities with features that reduce the risk of prepayment, but there is no guarantee that we will not invest in other mortgage-backed securities that lack this protection. In periods of increasing interest rates, mortgage-backed securities are prepaid more slowly, which may require us to receive interest payments that are below the interest rates then prevailing for longer than expected. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. The regulatory system under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision in their respective jurisdictions of domicile. The purpose of the insurance laws and regulations is to protect insureds, not our shareholders. These regulations are generally administered by the insurance departments in which the individual insurance companies are domiciled and relate to, among other things: • standards of solvency, including risk- based capital measurements; • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; • required methods of accounting; • rate and form regulation pertaining to certain of our insurance businesses; • mandating certain insurance benefits; • potential assessments for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies; and • transactions with affiliates. Significant changes in these laws and regulations could make it more expensive to conduct our business. The insurance subsidiaries’ domiciliary state insurance departments, and, with respect to CastlePoint and TRL, the BMA, also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of their domiciled insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company issues and other matters. These regulatory requirements may adversely affect or inhibit our ability to achieve some or all of our business objectives. 40 Table of Contents Our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or accreditations in new states we intend to enter, or may be able to do so only at significant cost. In addition, we may not be able to comply fully with or obtain appropriate exemptions from the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies or holding companies. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business or engage in certain activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could subject us to fines and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations to which our operating subsidiaries are subject could adversely affect our ability to operate and expand our business or could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In recent years, the U.S. insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Moreover, state insurance regulators regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations, often focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws. Changes in these laws and regulations or the interpretation of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The highly publicized investigations of the insurance industry by state and other regulators and government officials in recent years have led to, and may continue to lead to, additional legislative and regulatory requirements for the insurance industry and may increase the costs of doing business. The activities of our MGAs are subject to licensing requirements and regulation under the laws of New York, New Jersey, Florida and other states where they do business. The businesses of our MGAs depend on the validity of, and continued good standing under, the licenses and approvals pursuant to which they operate, as well as compliance with pertinent regulations. The businesses of the attorneys-in-fact depend on the validity of, and continued good standing under, the licenses and approvals pursuant to which the Reciprocal Exchanges operate, as well as compliance with pertinent regulations. As of February 5, 2009, the date of closing of our acquisition of CastlePoint, our activities became subject to certain licensing requirements and regulation under the laws of Bermuda.TRL, a Bermuda-domiciled subsidiary of Tower, is also subject to licensing requirements and regulation under the laws of Bermuda. Licensing laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In all jurisdictions, the applicable licensing laws and regulations are subject to amendment and interpretation by regulatory authorities. Generally, such authorities are vested with relatively broad and general discretion as to the granting, renewing and revoking of licenses and approvals. Licenses may be denied or revoked for various reasons, including the violation of such regulations, conviction of crimes and the like. Possible sanctions which may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business for specified periods of time, revocation of licenses, censures, redress to clients and fines. In some instances, our MGAs follow practices based on its or its counsel’s interpretations of laws and regulations, or those generally followed by the industry, which may prove to be different from those of regulatory authorities. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect us by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. The effects of this and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could adversely affect us or our business. In addition, we are currently under heightened regulatory oversight by the insurance departments in certain states. As a result, we must, among other actions, provide increased information to such insurance departments and adhere to limitations on certain payments and transactions. The effects of this and other potential future actions by the insurance departments are extremely hard to predict and could adversely affect us. If the assessments we are required to pay are increased drastically, our results of operations and financial condition will suffer. Our insurance subsidiaries are required to participate in various mandatory insurance facilities or in funding mandatory pools, which are generally designed to provide insurance coverage for consumers who are unable to obtain insurance in the voluntary insurance market. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to assessments in the states where we do business for various purposes, including the provision of funds necessary to fund the operations of the insurance department and insolvency funds. In 2013, the insurance subsidiaries were assessed $13.1 million by various state insurance-related agencies. These assessments are generally determined by an insurer’s percentage of the total premiums written in a state within a particular line of business. The Company is permitted to assess premium surcharges on workers’ compensation policies that are based on statutorily enacted rates. As of December 31, 2013, the liability for the various workers’ compensation funds, which includes amounts assessed on workers’ 41 Table of Contents compensation policies, was $0.8 million for our insurance subsidiaries. Our share of any assessments could increase. However, we cannot predict with any degree of certainty the amount of future assessments, because they depend on factors outside our control, such as insolvencies of other insurance companies. Significant assessments, or a drastic increase thereof, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We rely on our information technology and telecommunications systems to conduct our business. Our business is dependent upon the functioning of our information technology and telecommunication systems. We rely upon our systems, as well as the systems of our vendors to underwrite and process our business, make claim payments, provide customer service, provide policy administration services such as endorsements, cancellations and premium collections, comply with insurance regulatory requirements and perform actuarial and other analytical functions necessary for pricing and product development. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to timely and efficiently process our business and protect our information and telecommunications systems from physical loss, telecommunications failure or other similar catastrophic events, as well as from security breaches. While we have implemented business contingency plans and other reasonable and appropriate internal controls to protect our systems from interruption, loss or security breaches, a sustained business interruption or system failure could adversely impact our ability to process our business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other related functions. The operations and maintenance of our policy, billing, claims administration systems, and data warehouse have been operating in one production data center environment and one disaster recovery environment which are located in two separate regions. The development and implementation of new claims, billing and policy issuance systems have begun. Until these systems are fully migrated and implemented, we must depend on existing technology platforms that require more manual or duplicate processing. In addition, while the Transition Services Agreement (the “TSA”) between OneBeacon and us will terminate as of June 30, 2014, there can be no assurance that our IT systems will be able to support the applicable business following the expiration of the TSA. In addition, as disclosed in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we did not effectively maintain certain information technology general controls. Specifically, the Company did not design and maintain effective controls with respect to segregation of duties, restricted access to programs and data, and change management activities. Consequently, controls that were dependent on the effective operation of information technology were not effectively designed to include adequate substantive review of system generated data. These controls were determined not to be operating effectively and therefore could result in a material misstatement of substantially all financial line items. The failure in cyber- or other information security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could result in a loss or disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation and impairment of our ability to conduct business effectively. Our business is highly dependent upon the effective operation of our computer systems. We retain confidential and proprietary information on our computer systems and we rely on sophisticated technologies to maintain the security of that information. Our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyber-attacks or other computer-related penetrations. While, to date, we have not experienced a material breach of cyber-security, administrative and technical controls and other preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber-incidents and protect our information technology may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. In addition, in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, epidemic, industrial accident, blackout, computer virus, terrorist attack, cyber-attack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. In addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were unavailable following a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. These interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers’ ability to provide goods and services and our employees’ ability to perform their job responsibilities. The failure of our computer systems and/or our disaster recovery plans for any reason could cause significant interruptions in our operations and result in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. Such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and legal claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. We may be unable to collect amounts due from the Reciprocal Exchanges through our ownership of surplus notes. We provide management services for a fee to the Reciprocal Exchanges. The Reciprocal Exchanges are capitalized entirely with surplus notes that we acquired from OneBeacon Insurance Group, Ltd. for $96.9 million. Reciprocals are policyholder-owned insurance carriers organized as unincorporated associations. We have no ownership interest in the Reciprocal Exchanges. Under current accounting rules, our consolidated financial statements include the results of the Reciprocal Exchanges, and therefore, the surplus notes and any accrued interest are eliminated in consolidation. Payments of principal and interest on notes of the Reciprocal Exchanges are subject to regulatory approval. If either of the Reciprocal Exchanges is unable to obtain insurance regulatory approval to repay us, we would be unable to collect amounts owed under the related surplus note, which would impact the statutory capital of the insurance subsidiaries that own the surplus notes and impair their ability to pay dividends to Tower. 42 Table of Contents Adverse economic factors including recession, inflation, periods of high unemployment or lower economic activity could result in the Company selling fewer policies than expected and/or an increase in premium defaults which, in turn, could affect the Company’s growth and profitability. Negative economic factors may also affect the Company’s ability to receive the appropriate rate for the risk it insures with its policyholders and may impact its policy flow. In an economic downturn, the degree to which prospective policyholders apply for insurance and fail to pay all balances owed may increase. Existing policyholders may exaggerate or even falsify claims to obtain higher claims payments. These outcomes would reduce the Company’s underwriting profit to the extent these effects are not reflected in the rates charged by the Company. Risk Factors Relating to Disruptions in the Financial Markets We could be forced to sell investments to meet our liquidity requirements. We invest the premiums we receive from customers until they are needed to pay policyholder claims or until they are recognized as profits. Consequently, we seek to match the duration of our investment portfolio with the duration of our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves to ensure strong liquidity and avoid having to liquidate securities to fund claims. Risks such as inadequate loss and loss adjustment reserves or unfavorable trends in litigation could potentially result in the need to sell investments to fund these liabilities. Such sales could result in significant realized losses depending on the conditions of the general market, interest rates and credit issues with individual securities. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business. Our policies and procedures may not be comprehensive and may not identify every risk to which we are exposed. Many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. As a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. If our business does not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our intangible or other long-lived assets, or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Intangible assets represent the amount of fair value assigned to certain assets when we acquire a subsidiary or a book of business. Intangible assets are classified as having either a finite or an indefinite life. We test the recoverability of indefinite life intangibles at least annually. We test the recoverability of finite life intangibles whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a finite life intangible may not be recoverable. An impairment is recognized if the carrying value of an intangible asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value, in which circumstances we must write down the intangible asset by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to income. Such write downs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In 2013, the Company performed an impairment analysis in which the implied fair value of the fixed assets was determined to be lower than the carrying value. Management in its judgment concluded the fixed assets were impaired as of September 30, 2013 and recorded a non-cash charge to earnings of $125.8 million. Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. Factors in management’s determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate taxable capital gains. If, based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s U.S. based operations have a pre-tax loss for 2013, which results in a three-year cumulative tax loss position on its U.S. subsidiaries. After considering this negative evidence and uncertainty regarding the Company’s ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in the United States, the Company concluded that it should not recognize any net deferred tax assets (comprised principally of net operating loss carryforwards). The Company, therefore, has provided a full valuation allowance against its deferred tax asset at December 31, 2013. 43 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. Our financial statements are subject to the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our reports filed with the SEC. See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. An assessment of proposed standards, including standards on insurance contracts and accounting for financial instruments, is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and official positions of the FASB are determined only after extensive due process and deliberations. Therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. The required adoption of future accounting standards could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, including on our net income. Our associates could take excessive risks which could negatively affect our financial condition and business. As an insurance enterprise, we are in the business of accepting certain risks. The associates who conduct our business, including executive officers and other members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, product managers, sales agents, and other associates, as well as managing general agents and other agents with binding authority over the issuance of our policies do so in part by making decisions and choices that involve exposing us to risk. These include decisions such as setting underwriting guidelines and standards, product design and pricing, determining what assets to purchase for investment and when to sell them, which business opportunities to pursue, and other decisions. We endeavor, in the design and implementation of our compensation programs and practices, to avoid giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks; however, associates may take such risks regardless of the structure of our compensation programs and practices. Similarly, although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates’ business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks, these controls and procedures may not be effective. If our associates take excessive risks, the impact of those risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business operations. Insurance laws and regulations, our bye-laws and the terms of our indebtedness may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. We currently have insurance subsidiaries in Florida, New York, California, Illinois, New Jersey, New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. The insurance company change of control laws in each of those states requires written approval from the superintendent or commissioner of the insurance department of such state before a third party can acquire control of us. Control is presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, controls or holds the power to vote more than 10% (or 5% in the case of Florida) of our voting securities. In addition, our bye-laws contain provisions that may entrench directors and make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of the Company’s common shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of the Company’s common shares if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future. There is uncertainty regarding the application of the U.S. Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (“FATCA”) to the Company and its subsidiaries. FATCA requires certain foreign financial institutions and other foreign entities to undertake due diligence procedures to identify and provide information about shareholders and accounts held by US persons. In cases of non-compliance, a 30% withholding tax may be imposed. The impact of FATCA on the Company, its subsidiaries and their operations is uncertain. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. The capital and credit markets have experienced and continue to experience volatility and disruption in certain market sectors. We need liquidity to pay claims, reinsurance premiums, operating expenses, and interest on our debt. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations and our business will suffer. The principal sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums, reinsurance recoveries, ceding commissions, fee revenues, cash flow from our investment portfolio and other assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. Other sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of instruments, including medium- and long-term debt, junior subordinated debt securities and shareholders’ equity. In the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading 44 Table of Contents activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreased due to a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take further actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to satisfy statutory capital requirements, generate fee income and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we would prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. In addition, even absent market volatility, the Company is subject to a contractual prohibition on accessing the capital markets pursuant to the ACP Re Merger Agreement, which could adversely affect our ability to meet liquidity needs. Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations, and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the mortgage market and a declining real estate market have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and markets going forward. These concerns and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us. Our revenues may decline in such circumstances and our profit margins could erode. In addition, in the event of extreme prolonged market disruptions we could incur significant losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our insurance products could be adversely affected. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The current mortgage crisis has also raised the possibility of future legislative and regulatory actions that could further impact our business. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The impairment of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, reinsurers and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. We also have exposure to various financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments and equity investments and unsecured debt instruments issued by various state and local municipal authorities. There can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these assets would not materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and our net investment income can vary from period to period. We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate values, market volatility, the performance of the economy in general, the performance of the specific obligors included in our portfolio and other factors outside our control. Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. A rise in interest rates will increase the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates from governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. A rise in interest rates would increase the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio, which would be offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested. Conversely, a decline in interest rates would decrease the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio, which would be offset by lower rates of return on funds reinvested. Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price associated with changes in credit spreads. A widening of credit spreads will increase the net unrealized loss position of the investment portfolio and, if issuer credit spreads increase significantly 45 Table of Contents or for an extended period of time, would likely result in higher other-than-temporary impairments. Credit spread tightening will reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturities. Our investment portfolio also has significant exposure to risks associated with mortgage-backed securities. As with other fixed income investments, the fair market value of these securities fluctuates depending on market and other general economic conditions and the interest rate environment. In addition, market volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. Continuing challenges include continued weakness in the real estate market and increased mortgage delinquencies, investor anxiety over the economy, rating agency downgrades of various structured products and financial issuers, unresolved issues with structured investment vehicles, deleveraging of financial institutions and hedge funds and a serious dislocation in the inter-bank market. Continued volatility, changes in interest rates, changes in credit spreads and defaults, a lack of pricing transparency, market liquidity and declines in equity prices, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows through realized losses, impairments, and changes in unrealized positions. Our valuation of fixed maturity and equity securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We have categorized our fixed maturity, equity securities and short-term investments into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). An asset or liability’s classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to its valuation. The relevant GAAP guidance defines the input levels as follows: Level 1 — Inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets. Included are those investments traded on an active exchange, such as the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Level 2 — Inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability and market-corroborated inputs. Included are investments in U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government agencies, together with municipal bonds, corporate debt securities, commercial mortgage and asset-backed securities, and certain residential mortgage-backed securities that are generally investment grade. Level 3 — Inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable for the asset or liability and are significant to the fair value measurement. Material assumptions and factors considered in pricing investment securities may include projected cash flows, collateral performance including delinquencies, defaults and recoveries, and any market clearing activity or liquidity circumstances in the security or similar securities that may have occurred since the prior pricing period. Included in this valuation methodology are investments in certain mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities and securities the Company is reporting under the fair value option. At December 31, 2013, 6.0%, 91.0% and 3.0% of these securities represented Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3, respectively. The availability of observable inputs varies and is affected by a wide variety of factors. When the valuation is based on models or inputs that are less observable or unobservable in the market, the determination of fair value requires significantly more judgment. The degree of judgment exercised by management in determining fair value is greatest for investments categorized as Level 3. For investments in this category, we consider prices and inputs that are current as of the measurement date. During periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, for example, non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, more securities may fall to Level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods which are more sophisticated or require greater estimation, thereby resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 46 Table of Contents Some of our investments are relatively illiquid and are in asset classes that have been experiencing significant market valuation fluctuations. We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, subprime mortgage-backed securities, certain commercial mortgage-backed securities, rated below AA, and our other invested assets. These asset classes represented 28.0% of the carrying value of our total cash and invested assets as of December 31, 2013. The reported values of our less liquid asset classes described in the paragraph above do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our assets in the current market, there can be no assurance that we would be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we may be forced to sell them at lower prices. The determination of the amount of impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position. The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. For example, the cost of our fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for impairments in value deemed to be other-than-temporary in the period in which the determination is made. The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on management’s case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. Our management regularly reviews our fixed maturity and equity securities portfolios to evaluate the necessity of recording impairment losses for other-than-temporary declines in the fair value of investments. In evaluating potential impairment, management considers, among other criteria: (i) the current fair value compared to amortized cost or cost, as appropriate; (ii) the length of time the security’s fair value has been below amortized cost or cost; (iii) specific credit issues related to the issuer such as changes in credit rating, reduction or elimination of dividends or non-payment of scheduled interest payments; (iv) management’s intent and ability to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in value to cost; (v) specific cash flow estimations for certain mortgage-backed securities; and (vi) current economic conditions. Gross unrealized losses may be realized or result in future impairments. Our gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2013 were $23.6 million pre-tax, and the amount of gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities that have been in an unrealized loss position for twelve months or more was $4.2 million pre-tax. Realized losses or impairments may have a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial position. Risks Related to Our Industry The threat of terrorism and military and other actions may adversely affect our investment portfolio and may result in decreases in our net income, revenue and assets under management. The threat of terrorism, both within the United States and abroad, and military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and declines in the equity markets in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, as well as loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets and economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures. There can be no assurances that terrorist attacks or the threat of future terrorist events in the United States and abroad or military actions by the United States will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our results of operations and revenues may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including cyclical changes in the insurance industry, which may cause the price of Tower securities issued to investors to be volatile. The results of operations of companies in the property and casualty insurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Our profitability can be affected significantly by: • competition; • rising levels of loss costs that we cannot anticipate at the time we price our products; • volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made, weather-related and other natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks; 47 Table of Contents • changes in the level of reinsurance capacity and insurance capacity; • changes in the amount of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves resulting from new types of claims and new or changing judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers’ liabilities; and • fluctuations in equity markets and interest rates, inflationary pressures, conditions affecting the credit markets, segments thereof or particular asset classes and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested assets and may impact the ultimate payout of losses. The supply of insurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance and reinsurance industry. As a result, the insurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity alternating with periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. Significant amounts of new capital flowing into the insurance and reinsurance sectors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms and fewer submissions for our underwriting services. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of the insurance business significantly, and we expect to experience the effects of such cyclicality. This cyclicality could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and revenues, which may cause the price of Tower securities issued to investors to be volatile. Changing climate conditions may adversely affect our financial condition or profitability. There is an emerging scientific consensus that the earth is getting warmer. Climate change, to the extent it produces rising temperatures and changes in weather patterns, may affect the frequency and severity of storms and other weather events, the affordability, availability and underwriting results of homeowners and commercial property insurance, and, if frequency and severity patterns increase, could negatively affect our financial results. Risk Relating to Our Common Shares The rights of our shareholders are governed by Bermuda law, which has material and sometimes adverse differences relative to the corporate law of other jurisdictions, including Delaware. The rights of our shareholders are governed by applicable Bermuda law, including the Bermuda Companies Act of 1981 (the “Companies Act”), and by the Company’s memorandum of association and amended and restated bye-laws (the “Company’s bye-laws”). The Companies Act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to Delaware corporations and their shareholders. Set forth below is a summary of certain significant provisions of the Companies Act, which includes, where relevant, information on modifications adopted under the Company’s bye-laws that differ in certain respects from Delaware corporate law. Because the following statements are summaries, they do not discuss all aspects of Bermuda law that may be relevant to the Company and its shareholders. Interested Directors. Under Bermuda law and the Company’s bye-laws, a transaction entered into by the Company, in which a director has an interest, will not be voidable by the Company, and such director will not be accountable to the Company for any benefit realized under that transaction, provided the nature of the interest is disclosed at the first opportunity at a meeting of the Board of Directors, or in writing, to the Board of Directors. In addition, the Company’s bye-laws allow a director to be taken into account in determining whether a quorum is present and to vote on a transaction in which that director has an interest following a declaration of the interest under the Companies Act, unless the majority of the disinterested directors determine otherwise. By contrast, under Delaware law, the transaction would not be voidable if: • the material facts as to the interested director’s relationship or interests were disclosed or were known to the Board and the Board in good faith authorized the transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors; • the material facts were disclosed or were known to the shareholders entitled to vote on such transaction and the transaction was specifically approved in good faith by vote of the majority of shares entitled to vote thereon; or • the transaction was fair as to the corporation at the time it was authorized, approved or ratified. Business Combinations with Large Shareholders or Affiliates. As a Bermuda company, the Company may enter into business combinations with its large shareholders or one or more wholly owned subsidiaries, including asset sales and other transactions in which a large shareholder or a wholly owned subsidiary receives, or could receive, a financial benefit that is greater than that 48 Table of Contents received, or to be received, by other shareholders or other wholly owned subsidiaries, without obtaining prior approval from the Company’s shareholders and without special approval from the Company’s Board of Directors. Under Bermuda law, amalgamations and mergers require the approval of the Board of the Directors, and except in the case of amalgamations or mergers with and between wholly owned subsidiaries, shareholder approval. However, when the affairs of a Bermuda company are being conducted in a manner that is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to a Bermuda court, which may make an order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company’s affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or the company. If the Company were a Delaware company, it would need prior approval from the Board of Directors or a supermajority of its shareholders to enter into a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years from the time the person became an interested shareholder, unless the Company opted out of the relevant Delaware statute. Bermuda law and the Company’s bye-laws would require the Board’s approval and, in some instances, shareholder approval of such transactions. Shareholders’ Suits. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law are not as extensive as the rights of shareholders in many U.S. jurisdictions. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of Bermuda. However, the Bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow English case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence a derivative action in the Company’s name to remedy a wrong done to the Company where an act is alleged to be beyond its corporate power, is illegal or would result in the violation of its memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by the court to acts that are alleged to constitute (i) fraud against the minority shareholders or (ii) an act that required the approval of a greater percentage of the Company’s shareholders than actually approved it. The prevailing party in such an action generally would be able to recover a portion of attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with the action. The Company’s bye-laws provide that shareholders waive all claims or rights of action that they might have, individually or in the right of the Company, against any director or officer for any act or failure to act in the performance of such director’s or officer’s duties, except with respect to any fraud or dishonesty of the director or officer or to recover any gain, personal profit or advantage to which the director or officer is not legally entitled. In contrast, under Delaware law, class actions and derivative actions generally are available to shareholders for, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and actions not taken in accordance with applicable law. In such actions, the court has discretion to permit the winning party to recover attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with the action. Indemnification of Directors and Officers. Under Bermuda law and the Company’s bye-laws, the Company is required to indemnify its directors, officers, any other person appointed to a committee of the Board (and their respective heirs, executors or administrators) to the fullest extent permitted by law against all liabilities, actions, costs, charges, losses, damages and expenses, incurred or sustained by such persons by reason of any act done, concurred in or omitted in the (actual or alleged) conduct of the Company’s business or in the discharge of their duties; provided that such indemnification shall not extend to any matter that would render such indemnification void under the Companies Act. Under Delaware law, a corporation may indemnify a director or officer of the corporation against expenses (including attorneys’ fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred in defense of an action, suit or proceeding by reason of such position if (i) such director or officer acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation and (ii) with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, such director or officer had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. Anti-takeover provisions in the Company’s bye-laws could delay or deter a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider to be desirable and may make it more difficult to replace members of the Company’s Board of Directors. The Company’s bye-laws contain provisions that may entrench directors and make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of the Company’s common shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of the Company’s common shares if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future. The Company’s shareholders may have difficulty effecting service of process on the Company or enforcing judgments against the Company in the United States. The Company is organized under the laws of Bermuda and a portion of the Company’s business will be based in Bermuda. In addition, certain of the Company’s directors and officers may reside in Bermuda or other jurisdictions outside of the United States. As such, the Company has been advised that there is doubt as to whether a holder of the Company common shares would be able to (i) enforce, in the courts of Bermuda, judgments of U.S. courts against persons who reside in Bermuda based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or (ii) bring an original action in the Bermuda courts to enforce liabilities against the Company or its directors and officers who reside outside of the United States, based solely upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. 49 Table of Contents Further, the Company has been advised that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, and there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may not enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda, it may be difficult for the Company’s shareholders to recover against the Company based on such judgments. U.S. Federal and Bermuda Tax Risks Related to Purchasing and Owning Shares of the Company. The merger with Canopius may have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences on the Company under certain circumstances. Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) addresses “inversion” transactions, which refer in relevant part to transactions in which a U.S. corporation becomes a subsidiary of a foreign corporation. This section provides that in certain instances such foreign corporation may be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Because the former holders of TGI common stock did not acquire 80 percent or more of the stock (by vote or value) of the Company by reason of the merger (the “ownership test”), we believe that the Company should not be treated as a domestic corporation under section 7874 of the Code. Nevertheless, it is possible that the IRS could assert that section 7874 of the Code applies to treat the Company as a domestic corporation following the merger. Such IRS position, if sustained, would result in significant tax liability to the Company and other adverse tax consequences. There is limited guidance regarding the application of the section 7874 provisions, including the ownership test. Moreover, new statutory and/or regulatory provisions under section 7874 of the Code (or otherwise) could be enacted or promulgated that adversely affect the Company’s status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, and any such provisions could have retroactive application to the Company. The Company and the Company’s Bermuda subsidiaries may become subject to Bermuda taxes after March 31, 2035. Bermuda currently imposes no income tax on corporations. The Company has obtained an assurance from the Bermuda Minister of Finance under The Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to the Company or its Bermuda subsidiaries, until March 31, 2035. There can be no assurance that the Company or its Bermuda subsidiaries will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after that date. The Company and the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries may be subject to U.S. tax, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. We believe that the Company and its non-U.S. subsidiaries have operated, and intend to continue to operate, in such a manner as to minimize the risk that we or our subsidiaries would be considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States (and, in the case of those non-U.S. subsidiaries qualifying for treaty protection, in such a manner as to minimize the risk that any of such non-U.S. subsidiaries would be considered to be doing business through a permanent establishment in the United States), and therefore subject to U.S. federal net income taxes or branch profits taxes. However, because there is uncertainty as to the activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, and what constitutes a permanent establishment under the applicable tax treaties, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not contend successfully that the Company or one or more of its non-U.S. subsidiaries is or has been engaged in a trade or business, or is or has been carrying on business through a permanent establishment, in the United States. Dividends paid by the Company’s U.S. subsidiaries to the Company will be subject to a 30 percent withholding tax. Foreign corporations are generally subject to U.S. income tax imposed by withholding on certain “fixed or determinable annual or periodic gains, profits and income” derived from sources within the U.S. (such as dividends and certain interest), subject to exemption under the Code or reduction by applicable treaties. The income tax treaty between the United States of America and Bermuda, as amended, does not reduce the U.S. withholding rate on such U.S.-source income. The non-treaty rate of U.S. withholding tax is currently 30 percent. Accordingly, dividends and interest, if any, paid by the Company’s U.S. subsidiaries to the Company will be subject to a 30 percent U.S. withholding tax. The reinsurance agreements between the Company and the Company’s U.S. subsidiaries may be subject to recharacterization or other adjustment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. Under section 845 of the Code, the IRS may allocate income, deductions, assets, reserves, credits and any other items related to a reinsurance agreement among certain related parties, recharacterize such items, or make any other adjustment, in order to reflect the proper source, character or amount of the items for each party. In addition, if a reinsurance contract has a significant tax avoidance effect on any party to the contract, the IRS may make adjustments with respect to such party to eliminate the tax avoidance effect. No regulations have been issued under section 845 of the Code. Accordingly, the application of such provisions to the Company and its subsidiaries is uncertain and we cannot predict what impact, if any, such provisions may have on the Company or its subsidiaries. 50 Table of Contents If the Company is classified as a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”) your taxes could increase. If the Company is classified as a PFIC, such classification would have material adverse tax consequences for U.S. persons that directly or indirectly own the Company’s shares, including subjecting such U.S. persons to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply. We believe that the Company should not be, and currently do not expect the Company to become, a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes; however, no assurance can be given that the Company is not and will not become a PFIC. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these provisions may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on persons subject to U.S. federal income tax that directly or indirectly own the Company’s shares. Moreover, if the Company is a PFIC for any years in which dividends are paid or for the preceding year, such dividends will not be eligible for the reduced rates of U.S. federal income tax applicable to “qualified dividends.” If you own or are treated as owning 10 percent or more of the Company’s shares and the Company or one or more of its non-U.S. subsidiaries is classified as a controlled foreign corporation (a “CFC”), your taxes could increase. Each United States person (as defined in section 957(c) of the Code) who (i) owns (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. persons, or constructively by application of certain attribution rules (“constructively”)) 10 percent or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of shares of a non-U.S. corporation at any time during a taxable year (a “10 percent U.S. Shareholder”) and (ii) owns (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. persons) shares of such non-U.S. corporation on the last day of such taxable year, must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed, if such non-U.S. corporation has been a CFC for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during such taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation is considered a CFC if 10 percent U.S. Shareholders own (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. persons, or constructively) more than 50 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting shares of such non-U.S. corporation or more than 50 percent of the total value of all shares of such corporation. For purposes of taking into account subpart F insurance income, a CFC also generally includes a non-U.S. insurance company in which more than 25 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of shares or more than 25 percent of the total value of all shares is owned (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. persons or constructively) by 10 percent U.S. Shareholders, on any day during the taxable year of such corporation. We cannot assure you that the Company or its non-U.S. subsidiaries will not be classified as CFCs. Furthermore, due to the attribution provisions of the Code regarding determination of beneficial ownership, you may be a 10 percent U.S. Shareholder even though you do not directly own 10 percent or more of the total combined voting power of the Company. If one or more of the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries is determined to have related person insurance income (“RPII”), you may be subject to U.S. taxation on your pro rata share of such income. If the Company is directly, indirectly through non-U.S. persons or constructively owned 25 percent or more by U.S. persons and the RPII of any of the Company’s non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries were to equal or exceed 20 percent of such subsidiary’s gross insurance income in any taxable year and direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to such insureds within the meaning of section 953(c)(6) of the Code) owned, directly or indirectly through entities (including the Company), 20 percent or more of the voting power or value of such non-U.S. insurance subsidiary, then a U.S. person who owns any of the Company’s shares (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. persons) on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes such person’s pro rata share of such subsidiary’s RPII for the entire taxable year, generally determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S. persons at that date regardless of whether such income is distributed. The amount of RPII earned by the Company’s non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries (generally, premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. holder of common shares or any person related to such holder within the meaning of section 953(c)(6) of the Code) will depend on a number of factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by such non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries. The gross RPII of each of the Company’s non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries is not expected in the foreseeable future to equal or exceed 20 percent of such subsidiary’s gross insurance income. No assurance can be given that this will be the case because some of the factors that determine the existence or extent of RPII may be beyond the Company’s knowledge and/or control. The RPII rules provide that if a U.S. person disposes of shares in a non-U.S. insurance corporation in which U.S. persons own 25 percent or more of the shares (even if the amount of RPII is less than 20 percent of such corporation’s gross insurance income and the ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons is less than the 20 percent threshold), any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as ordinary income to the extent of such U.S. person’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that such U.S. person owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such U.S. person will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the number of shares owned by such U.S. person. Although the Company will not itself be directly engaged in the insurance business, TRL will be so engaged and other non-U.S. subsidiaries of the Company may be so 51 Table of Contents engaged. As a result, it is possible that these RPII rules will apply to disposition of the Company shares. The RPII provisions have never been interpreted by the courts or the U.S. Treasury Department in final regulations, and regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. It is not certain whether these regulations will be adopted in their proposed form or what changes or clarifications might ultimately be made thereto or whether any such changes, as well as any interpretation or application of RPII by the IRS, the courts or otherwise, might have retroactive effect. The U.S. Treasury Department has authority to impose, among other things, additional reporting requirements with respect to RPII. Accordingly, the meaning of the RPII provisions and the application of those provisions to the Company and its non-U.S. subsidiaries are uncertain. U.S. tax-exempt organizations that own the Company’s shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income. A U.S. tax-exempt organization may recognize unrelated business taxable income if a portion of the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries’ insurance income is attributed to such organization. In general, insurance income will be attributed to a U.S. tax-exempt shareholder if either the Company is a CFC and such tax-exempt shareholder is a 10 percent U.S. Shareholder or there is RPII and the exceptions described above do not apply. U.S. tax-exempt investors should consult their tax advisors as to the U.S. tax consequences of an investment in the Company’s shares. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could be retroactive and may subject the Company or its non-U.S. subsidiaries to U.S. federal income taxation. Legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United States but have certain U.S. connections. There are currently pending legislative proposals which, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its shareholders. It is possible that broader-based or new legislative proposals could emerge in the future that could have an adverse effect on the Company, its non-U.S. subsidiaries and its shareholders. The tax laws and interpretations regarding whether a company is engaged in a U.S. trade or business or whether a company is a CFC or PFIC or has RPII or subject to the inversion tax rules are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to an insurance company. Additionally, the regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed form and the regulations regarding inversion transactions are in temporary form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules will likely be forthcoming from the IRS. We are not able to predict if, when or in what form such guidance will be provided and whether such guidance will be applied on a retroactive basis. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 