Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following information about these risks, together with the other information contained in this Form 10-K, in considering whether to invest in or hold our common stock. Additional risks not presently known to us, 36 or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business or results of operations. Any of the risks described below could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, and a corresponding decline in the market price of our common stock. You could lose all or part of your investment. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. See “Item 1.—Note on Forward-Looking Statements”. Risks Related to Our Business If our actual loss and loss adjustment expenses exceed our loss reserves, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly adversely affected. Our results of operations and financial condition depend upon our ability to assess accurately the potential losses associated with the risks that we insure and reinsure. We establish loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred under the policies that we write. Loss reserves include case reserves, which are established for specific claims that have been reported to us, and reserves for claims that have been incurred but not reported (or “IBNR”). To the extent that loss and loss adjustment expenses exceed our estimates, we will be required to immediately recognize the less favorable experience and increase loss reserves, with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. For example, over the past ten years we have experienced adverse development of reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred in prior years. In 2002, following an annual review by an outside actuarial consulting company of TICNY’s net loss and loss adjustment reserves, we increased such reserves by $2.9 million. With respect to losses on the property coverage portion of our commercial and personal lines policies, the primary component of our loss reserve is a case reserve, which is posted by the assigned examiner shortly after the loss is reported. The extent of the damage is evaluated through a primarily fact-based loss assessment process. Property losses are typically reported within days of occurrence and case reserves are posted promptly. While this case reserving process is not free of errors in determining the scope of the loss or deviations at the time the loss is paid, major deviations are infrequent. Consequently, commercial and personal property lines of business generally do not require significant IBNR nor are they difficult to predict with a relative amount of certainty. Absent significant changes by underwriting personnel in risk selection and coverage offered and assuming examiners are properly trained with the requisite experience, loss reserves on property lines of business remain relatively predictable from an actuarial standpoint. With respect to losses on the liability coverage portions of our commercial and personal lines policies, the reserving process possesses characteristics that make case and IBNR reserving inherently less susceptible to accurate actuarial estimation. Unlike property losses, liability losses are claims made by third parties of which the policyholder may not be aware and therefore may be reported a significant time after the occurrence, sometimes years. In addition, as liability claims most often involve claims of bodily injury, assessment of the proper case reserve is a far more subjective process than claims involving property damages. In addition, the determination of a case reserve for a liability claim is often without the benefit of information, which develops slowly over the life of the claim and can subject the case reserve to substantial modification well after the claim was first reported. Numerous factors impact the liability case reserving process, such as venue, the amount of monetary damage, the permanence of the injury, the age of the claimant and many others. Estimating an appropriate level of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves is an inherently uncertain process. Accordingly, actual loss and loss adjustment expenses paid will likely deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our consolidated financial statements. It is possible 37 that claims could exceed our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. TICNY and TRM conduct business in a concentrated geographical area. Any single catastrophe or other condition affecting losses in this area could adversely affect our results of operations. TICNY currently writes business in concentrated geographic areas, primarily in the southern and western portions of New York State, and reinsures business produced by TRM in New York and to a lesser extent in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. As a result, a single catastrophe occurrence, destructive weather pattern, terrorist attack, regulatory development or other condition or general economic trend affecting the region within which TICNY and TRM conduct their business could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations more significantly than other insurance companies that conduct business across a broader geographical area. During our history, we have not experienced any single event that materially affected our results of operations. The most significant single event was the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, as a result of which we suffered $391,000 in net losses. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable and our losses from catastrophes could be substantial. The occurrence of claims from catastrophic events is likely to result in substantial volatility in our financial condition or results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and our ability to write new business. Increases in the values and concentrations of insured property may increase the severity of such occurrences in the future. Although we attempt to manage our exposure to such events, including through the use of reinsurance, the frequency or severity of catastrophic events could exceed our estimates. As a result, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have not yet arranged quota share insurance for 2006. If we cannot obtain adequate reinsurance protection for the risks we have underwritten, we may be exposed to greater losses from these risks or we may reduce the amount of business we underwrite, which will reduce our revenues. Under state insurance law, insurance companies are required to maintain a certain level of capital in support of the policies they issue. In addition, rating agencies will reduce an insurance company’s ratings if the company’s premiums exceed specified multiples of its capital. As a result, the level of TICNY’s statutory surplus and capital limits the amount of premiums that it can write and retain risk on. Historically, we have utilized reinsurance to expand our capacity to write more business than TICNY’s surplus would have otherwise supported. As a result of the increase in TICNY’s surplus with proceeds contributed from the IPO, the quota share ceding percentage was reduced from 60% to 25% on October 1, 2004 and was maintained at 25% throughout 2005. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, insurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that they consider adequate for their business needs. For example, beginning in 2001, terms and conditions in the reinsurance market generally became less attractive for insurers seeking reinsurance. In addition, recent investigations by the New York State Attorney General, the SEC and other regulatory and government bodies into the use of non-traditional reinsurance by certain reinsurers may lead to the re-examination of applicable accounting standards or a reduction in the availability of some types of reinsurance. In turn, these developments could produce unfavorable changes in prices, reduced ceding commission revenue or other potentially adverse changes in the terms of reinsurance. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain our desired amounts of reinsurance. In addition, even if we are able to obtain such reinsurance, we may not be able to obtain such reinsurance from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness or negotiate terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable. We do not currently have in place quota share reinsurance for 2006. We are currently in discussions with a Bermuda reinsurance company in formation to enter into a multi-year quota share reinsurance agreement and in discussions with the Bermuda reinsurer’s parent holding company with respect to a 38 potential pooling or other risk sharing agreements between our insurance companies and one or more U.S. insurance companies that may be acquired by the Bermuda holding company, which could provide additional capacity to write business through an insurance risk sharing or pooling agreement. The Bermuda reinsurance company in formation is not yet able to engage in the reinsurance and insurance business because it has not received all of the necessary regulatory approvals or completed its capitalization. There can be no assurance that the capitalization will be completed or that the necessary regulatory approvals will be granted or that any approval granted will not be subject to conditions that restrict operations. Furthermore, the Bermuda holding company’s acquisition of the U.S. insurance companies will require the approval of insurance regulators in the respective states of domicile of such companies, and also may need the approval of insurance regulators in states where such companies are admitted. There can be no assurance that the necessary regulatory approvals will be received. We have made an investment in the Bermuda holding company and our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Michael H. Lee, is also expected to serve as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of that company. Because we may be deemed to control the Bermuda reinsurance company and any U.S. insurance companies that the Bermuda holding company may acquire under the provisions of the New York State Insurance Department and applicable regulations, we cannot enter into the reinsurance agreements or pooling agreements unless 30 days advance notice is provided to the New York State Insurance Department proposing our intention to enter into such agreements, and the New York State Insurance Department does not disapprove of these agreements within such period. Accordingly, it is possible that the New York State Insurance Department may not approve the terms and conditions of these agreements or it may determine that certain terms and conditions may not be fair or equitable or reasonable and must be revised. If the Bermuda reinsurance company and the U.S. insurance companies are not formed or acquired or our discussions with respect to the multi-year reinsurance agreement and the risk sharing or pooling agreements do no result in reaching acceptable terms and execution, we will seek reinsurance protection and additional capacity elsewhere. However, if we cannot obtain adequate reinsurance protection for the risks we have underwritten, we may be exposed to greater losses from these risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operation. It we cannot obtain our desired amount of reinsurance or addition capacity to write business through risk sharing or pooling agreements, we may be forced to reduce the amount of business that we underwrite, which will reduce our revenues. Until the multi-year reinsurance agreement is in place we are retaining all of the risk for 2006 that would have been ceded to quota share reinsurers. In 2005, we ceded 25% of our net premiums written to reinsurers in accordance with our 2005 quota share treaty. The 2005 Property Catastrophe Program, which expires on June 30, 2006, requires that a minimum of 25% quota share cession be in place for the program. If a loss that is ceded to the Property Catastrophe Program occurs after January 1, 2006 but before the inception of the proposed multi-year quota share agreement, we would be required to retain 25% of the loss as if the quota share cession was in place. 39 If we are able to obtain reinsurance, our reinsurers may not pay losses in a timely fashion, or at all, which may cause a substantial loss and increase our costs. As of December 31, 2005, we had a net balance due in our favor from our reinsurers of $148.1 million, consisting of $104.8 million in reinsurance recoverables and $43.3 million in prepaid reinsurance premiums. This amount is $15.7 million higher than TICNY’s statutory capital and surplus at that date. Since October 1, 2003, we have sought to manage our exposure to our reinsurers by placing our quota share reinsurance on a “funds withheld” basis and requiring any non-admitted reinsurers to collateralize their share of unearned premium and loss reserves. However, we have substantial recoverables from our pre-October 1, 2003 reinsurance arrangements that are uncollateralized, in that they are not supported by letters of credit, trust accounts, “funds withheld” arrangements or similar mechanisms intended to protect us against a reinsurer’s inability or unwillingness to pay. Our net exposure to our reinsurers totaled $58.8 million as of December 31, 2005 (representing 8.9% of our total assets on that date), including $33.2 million due from PXRE Reinsurance Company which received a ratings downgrade to “B+” (Very Good) by A.M. Best on February 24, 2006. See “Item 1.—Reinsurance” for a detailed discussion of our reinsurance exposures. Because we remain primarily liable to our policyholders for the payment of their claims, in the event that one of our reinsurers under an uncollateralized treaty became insolvent or refused to reimburse us for losses paid, or delayed in reimbursing us for losses paid, our cash flow and financial results overall could be materially and adversely affected. Our insurance company subsidiaries are rated “A-” (Excellent) by A.M. Best, and a decline in this rating or the ratings assigned by other rating agencies could affect our standing among brokers, agents and insured and cause our sales and earnings to decrease. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. A.M. Best maintains a letter scale rating system ranging from “A++” (Superior) to “F” (In Liquidation). TICNY was upgraded to “A- ” (Excellent) by A.M. Best, which is the 4th highest of 15 rating levels. There is no guarantee that TICNY will maintain this rating that is subject to, among other things, A.M. Best’s evaluation of our capitalization and performance on an ongoing basis including our management of terrorism risks, loss reserves and expenses. In April 2003, in connection with the issuance of subordinated debentures underlying trust preferred securities, TICNY also received an insurer financial strength rating from Standard & Poor’s Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. (“Standard & Poor’s”). The most recent rating from Standard & Poor’s is “BB+” with a stable outlook. A “BB+” rating is the 11th highest of 21 rating levels used by Standard & Poor’s. Our ratings are subject to periodic review by, and may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of A.M. Best or Standard & Poor’s. A decline in a company’s ratings indicating a reduced financial strength or other adverse financial developments can cause concern about the viability of the downgraded insurer among its agents, brokers and policyholders, resulting in a movement of business away from the downgraded carrier to other stronger or more highly rated carriers. Because many of our agents and brokers (whom we refer to as “producers”) and policyholders purchase our policies on the basis of our current ratings, the loss or reduction of any of our ratings will adversely impact our ability to retain or expand our policyholder base. The objective of the rating agencies’ rating systems is to provide an opinion of an insurer’s financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to its policyholders. Our ratings reflect the rating agencies’ opinion of our financial strength and are not evaluations directed to investors in neither common stock nor recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common stock. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations. Various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, which have been negotiated to limit our risks, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend. At the 40 present time we employ a variety of endorsements to our policies that limit exposure to known risks, including but not limited to exclusions relating to coverage for lead paint poisoning, asbestos and most claims for bodily injury or property damage resulting from the release of pollutants. In addition, the policies we issue contain conditions requiring the prompt reporting of claims to us and our right to decline coverage in the event of a violation of that condition. Our policies also include limitations restricting the period in which a policyholder may bring a breach of contract or other claim against the company, which in many cases is shorter than the statutory limitations for such claims in the states in which we write business. While these exclusions and limitations reduce the loss exposure to us and help eliminate known exposures to certain risks, it is possible that a court or regulatory authority could nullify or void an exclusion or legislation could be enacted modifying or barring the use of such endorsements and limitations in a way that would adversely effect our loss experience, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We may face substantial exposure to losses from terrorism and we are currently required by law to provide coverage against such losses. Our location and concentration of business written in New York City and adjacent areas by our insurance company subsidiaries may expose us to losses from terrorism. U.S. insurers are required by state and Federal law to offer coverage for terrorism in certain commercial lines. In response to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the United States Congress enacted legislation designed to ensure, among other things, the availability of insurance coverage for foreign terrorist acts, including the requirement that insurers offer such coverage in certain commercial lines. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (“TRIA”) requires commercial property and casualty insurance companies to offer coverage for certain acts of terrorism and established a Federal assistance program through the end of 2005 to help such insurers cover claims related to future terrorism-related losses. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005 (“TRIEA”) extends the Federal assistance program through 2007, but it also has set a per-event threshold that must be met before the federal program becomes applicable and also increases the insurers’ statutory deductibles. Pursuant to TRIA, our insurance company subsidiaries must offer insureds the option to purchase coverage for acts of terrorism that are certified as such by the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, in concurrence with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General, for an additional premium or decline such coverage. When the coverage is not purchased, the policy is endorsed to exclude coverage for certified acts of terrorism, but losses from an act of terrorism that is not a certified event may be covered in any case. Also, even if coverage for certified acts of terrorism is excluded, losses from fire following the act of terrorism are covered. Under TRIA, the Federal government agreed to reimburse commercial insurers for up to 90% of the losses due to certified acts of terrorism in excess of a deductible which, for 2005, was set at 15% of the insurer’s direct earned commercial lines premiums for the immediately preceding calendar year, i.e., 2004. Under TRIEA, the Federal government now agrees to reimburse commercial insurers only after a per-event threshold, referred to as the program trigger, has been reached. In the case of certified acts of terrorism taking place after March 31, 2006, the program trigger has been set at $50 million for industry-wide insured losses occurring in 2006 and $100 million for industry-wide insured losses occurring in 2007. The amount of the Federal government’s reimbursement drops from 90% to 85% for insured losses in 2007. In addition, each insurer’s deductible amount is set at 17.5% of certain of the insurer’s direct earned commercial lines premiums for 2006 and 20% for 2007. These changes reduce the federal assistance and increase the costs of terrorism risk insurance program for our insurance company subsidiaries. A terrorist attack or series of attacks in New York City or the surrounding areas could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, terrorist attacks in these areas could depress economic activity in our core market, which could hurt our business. 41 The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. One recent example of an emerging claim and coverage issue is New York City sidewalk liability. Effective as of September 14, 2003, a new law enacted by the New York City Council allows an injured party to sue the owner of a commercial building located in the five boroughs of New York City for any property damage or personal injury that was caused by the failure of the owner to maintain the sidewalk abutting the owner’s building in a reasonably safe condition. Previously, the City of New York, and not the building owner, was responsible for the maintenance of city sidewalks. We have adjusted our underwriting guidelines to attempt to screen out exposures that present a heightened risk from this new law. Since we depend on a few producers for a large portion of our revenues, loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us. Our products are marketed by independent producers. Other insurance companies compete with us for the services and allegiance of these producers. These producers may choose to direct business to our competitors, or may direct less desirable risks to us. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, approximately 40% of the total of TICNY’s gross premiums written and premiums produced by TRM on behalf of its issuing companies was derived from our top 10 producers. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, Morstan General Agency, CRC Insurance Inc. and Davis Agency Inc produced 11%, 5%, and 5%, respectively, of the total of TICNY’s gross premiums written and the premiums produced by TRM on behalf of its issuing companies. A significant decrease in business from, or the entire loss of, our largest producer or several of our other large producers would cause us to lose premium and require us to seek alternative producers or to increase submissions from existing producers. In the event we are unable to find replacement producers or increase business produced by our existing producers, our premium revenues would decrease and our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our reliance on producers subjects us to their credit risk. With respect to the premiums produced by TRM for its issuing companies and a limited amount of premium volume written by TICNY, producers collect premium from the policyholders and forward them to TRM and TICNY. In certain jurisdictions, including New York, when the insured pays premiums for these policies to producers for payment over to TRM and TICNY, the premiums might be considered to have been paid under applicable insurance laws and regulations and the insured will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums from the producer. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with producers. Although producers’ failures to remit premiums to us have not caused a material adverse impact on us to date, there have been instances where producers collected premium but did not remit it to us and we were nonetheless required under applicable law to provide the coverage set forth in the policy despite the absence of premium. Because the possibility of these events is dependent in large part upon the financial condition and internal operations of our producers, which in most cases are not public information, we are not able to quantify the exposure presented by this risk. If we are unable to collect premiums from our producers in the future, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 42 We operate in a highly competitive environment. If we are unsuccessful in competing against larger or more well-established rivals, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive and has historically been characterized by periods of significant pricing competition alternating with periods of greater pricing discipline, during which competition focuses upon other factors. In recent years the market environment was favorable in that rates increased significantly. During the latter part of 2004 and throughout 2005, increased competition in the marketplace became evident and, as a result, rate increases have become moderate. A softening of the market could lead to reduced growth or a reduction in premium volume, adverse effects on profitability and, ultimately, dislocation in the insurance industry. A.M. Best estimates that the industry wide change in net premiums written in the property casualty industry was 0.7% in 2005 compared to 4.7% in 2004 and is estimated to be 3.3% in 2006. The change in industry policyholders’ surplus as estimated by A.M. Best was 6.2% in 2005 compared to 13.6% in 2004 and is estimated to be 8.0% in 2006. In addition, in 2005, A.M. Best estimated new capital or capacity of $20 billion was raised by the property casualty insurance and reinsurance industry. This additional underwriting capacity may result in increased competition from other insurers seeking to expand the types or amount of business they write or cause a shift in focus by some insurers to maintaining market share at the expense of underwriting discipline. We attempt to compete based primarily on products offered, service, experience, the strength of our client relationships, reputation, speed of claims payment, perceived financial strength, ratings, scope of business, commissions paid and policy and contract terms and conditions. There are no assurances that in the future we will be able to retain or attract customers at prices which we consider to be adequate. We compete with major U.S. insurers and certain underwriting syndicates, including large national companies such as The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc., Allstate Insurance Company and State Farm Fire and Casualty Company; regional insurers such as OneBeacon Insurance Company; and smaller, more local competitors such as Magna Carta Companies, Utica First Insurance Company, Greater New York Mutual Insurance Company, Commercial Mutual Insurance Company and Otsego Mutual Fire Insurance Company. Many of these companies have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. Many of these competitors also have more experience, better ratings and more market recognition than we do. We seek to distinguish ourselves from our competitors by providing a broad product line offering and targeting those market segments that provide us with the best opportunity to earn an underwriting profit. We also compete with other companies by quickly and opportunistically delivering products that respond to our producers’ needs. In addition to competition in the operation of our business, we face competition from a variety of sources in attracting and retaining qualified employees. We also face competition because of entities that self-insure, primarily in the commercial insurance market. From time to time, established and potential customers may examine the benefits and risks of self-insurance and other alternatives to traditional insurance. See “Item 1.—Competition”. We may experience difficulty in expanding our business, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We plan to expand our licensing or acquire other insurance companies with multi-state property and casualty licensing in order to expand our product and service offerings geographically. We also intend to continue to acquire books of business that fit our underwriting competencies from competitors, managing agents and other producers and to acquire other insurance companies. This expansion strategy may present special risks: · We have achieved our prior success by applying a disciplined approach to underwriting and pricing in select markets that are not well served by our competitors. We may not be able to successfully implement our underwriting, pricing and product strategies in companies or books of business we acquire or over a larger operating region; 43 · We may not be successful in obtaining the required regulatory approvals to offer additional insurance products or expand into additional states; · We have limited acquisition experience and may not be able to efficiently combine an acquired company or block of business with our present financial, operational and management information systems; and · An acquisition could dilute the book value and earnings per share of our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in expanding our business or that any new business will be profitable. If we are unable to expand our business or to manage our expansion effectively, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more principal employees or by an inability to attract and retain staff. Our success will depend in substantial part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers, experienced underwriting talent and other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about our business. We rely substantially upon the services of our executive management team. Although we are not aware of any planned departures or retirements, if we were to lose the services of members of our management team, our business could be adversely affected. We believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining key personnel throughout our history. We have employment agreements with Michael H. Lee, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, and other members of our senior management team. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to our employees except for Michael H. Lee. Our business relationship with the Bermuda reinsurance company that may provide our 2006 quota share reinsurance and its affiliates may present, and make us vulnerable to, difficult conflicts of interest, related party transactions, business opportunity issues and legal challenges. As noted elsewhere (see “Item 1A.—Risk Factors—We have not yet arranged quota share insurance for 2006.”), we are in discussions with a Bermuda reinsurance company in formation with respect to a multi-year quota share reinsurance agreement among other matters. We have made a $15 million investment in the reinsurer’s parent holding company and expect to own a substantial interest in the holding company. In addition, Michael H. Lee, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, is expected to hold the same positions at the Bermuda holding company and, as such, will not serve our company on a full-time basis. Furthermore, members of our executive management are expected to resign their positions with us and become executive managers of the Bermuda holding company and its subsidiaries. Conflicts of interest could arise with respect to business opportunities that could be advantageous to the Bermuda company or its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and us or any of our subsidiaries, on the other hand. Because Mr. Lee will hold leadership positions at both Tower and the Bermuda company following the closing of this offering, potential conflicts of interest may arise should the interests of Tower, the Bermuda company and Mr. Lee diverge. While we expect that initially our interests and the Bermuda company should be aligned, they may diverge as the Bermuda company develops additional business. Mr. Lee’s service as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of both the Bermuda holding company and Tower could also raise a potential challenge under anti-trust laws. Section 8 of the Clayton Antitrust Act, or the Clayton Act, prohibits a person from serving as a director or officer in any two competing corporations under certain circumstances. If the Bermuda holding company and Tower are in the future deemed to be competitors with the meaning of the Clayton Act, certain thresholds relating to direct competition between Tower and the Bermuda holding company are met, and the Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission challenge the arrangement, Mr. Lee may be required to resign his positions with one of the companies, and/or fines or other penalties could be assessed against Mr. Lee and us. To alleviate any potential for direct competition between the Bermuda 44 holding company and us, proposed arrangements between us and the Bermuda holding company will provide for a division of responsibilities. However, it is possible that the potential for direct competition with respect to certain classes of business may exist with respect to the business we and the Bermuda holding company’s subsidiaries may pursue. If issuing companies or reinsurers are unwilling to participate in insurance arranged by TRM, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. TRM produces insurance for other insurance companies, which we call TRM’s issuing companies that in turn cede 100% of the business to reinsurers, including TICNY. TRM receives commissions and fees for producing the insurance and arranging the reinsurance. TRM’s ability to generate fee income therefore depends upon the willingness of issuing companies to write the business produced by TRM, which depends upon the willingness of reinsurers, including TICNY, to assume the risk on the business produced by TRM. Prior to 2006, all of the premiums produced by TRM were written through two issuing insurance companies, Virginia Surety Company, Inc. (“Virginia Surety”) and State National Insurance Company, Inc. (“State National”). Starting in 2006, all of TRM’s premiums produced will be issued through Virginia Surety. The contract with this company is terminable by either party upon 90 days notice. If we are unable to successfully structure a reinsurance transaction that would be satisfactory to this issuing company or if the issuing company is otherwise unwilling to do business with us, and we are unable to find an additional or replacement issuing company, we would have to rely on our own insurance company to write the premium currently produced by TRM for these issuing company or else forego some or all of this business and the associated fee revenues. Writing this business in our own insurance company would require us to bear additional insurance risk. Depending on our insurance company’s statutory surplus and our premium growth, we may not be able to write some or all of this business. Accordingly, the inability to retain or replace a TRM issuing company or to obtain reinsurance acceptable to us or the issuing company could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. An issuing company’s insolvency or weakened financial condition may have an adverse impact on TRM’s revenues. In the event of the insolvency or liquidation of an issuing company or other event having a negative impact on the financial strength of an issuing company, TRM may be unable to collect commissions due on policies written through that issuing company and may be unable to collect other fees due such as claims administration fees. Commission revenue on policies written through TRM’s issuing companies represented 4.2% of consolidated revenues in 2005 and 10.7% in 2004 and in 2003. Our investment performance may suffer as a result of adverse capital market developments or other factors, which may affect our financial results and ability to conduct business. We invest the premium we receive from policyholders until it is needed to pay policyholder claims or other expenses. At December 31, 2005, our invested assets consisted of $326.7 million in fixed maturity securities, $5.9 million in equity securities at fair value, $24.6 million of equity securities at cost and $1.4 million in common trust securities—statutory business trusts. Additionally, we held $38.8 million in cash and cash equivalents. In 2005, we earned $15.0 million of net investment income representing 6.8% of our total revenues and 47.1% of our pre-tax income. Our funds are invested by a professional investment advisory management firm under the direction of our management team in accordance with detailed investment guidelines set by us. See “Item 1.—Investments”. Although our investment policies stress diversification of risks, conservation of principal and liquidity, our investments are subject to a variety of investment risks, including risks relating to general economic conditions, market volatility, interest rate fluctuations, liquidity risk and credit and default risk. (Interest rate risk is discussed below under the heading, “—We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes”). In particular, the volatility of our claims may force us to liquidate securities, which may cause us to incur capital losses. If we do not structure our investment portfolio so that it is appropriately matched with our insurance and reinsurance liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to cover such liabilities. 45 Investment losses could significantly decrease our asset base and statutory surplus, thereby affecting our ability to conduct business. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our operating results are affected, in part, by the performance of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. A significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Generally, bond prices decrease as interest rates rise. Changes in interest rates could also have an adverse effect on our investment income and results of operations. For example, if interest rates decline, investment of new premiums received and funds reinvested will earn less than expected. In addition, our investment portfolio includes mortgage-backed securities. As of December 31, 2005, mortgage-backed securities constituted approximately 27.0% of our invested assets. As with other fixed income investments, the fair market value of these securities fluctuates depending on market and other general economic conditions and the interest rate environment. Changes in interest rates can expose us to prepayment risks on these investments. When interest rates fall, mortgage-backed securities are prepaid more quickly than expected and the holder must reinvest the proceeds at lower interest rates. Our mortgage-backed securities currently consist of securities with features that reduce the risk of prepayment, but there is no guarantee that we will not invest in other mortgage-backed securities that lack this protection. In periods of increasing interest rates, mortgage-backed securities are prepaid more slowly, which may require us to receive interest payments that are below the interest rates then prevailing for longer than expected. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or only available on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. To the extent that our present capital is insufficient to meet future operating requirements and/or cover losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth. Based on our current operating plan, we believe current capital together with our anticipated retained earnings, will support our operations without the need to raise additional capital. However, we cannot provide any assurance in that regard, since many factors will affect our capital needs and their amount and timing, including our growth and profitability, our claims experience, and the availability of reinsurance, as well as possible acquisition opportunities, market disruptions and other unforeseeable developments. If we had to raise additional capital, equity or debt financing may not be available at all or may be available only on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our stockholders could result, and in any case such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of the shares offered hereby. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The regulatory system under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our business. TICNY and TNIC are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision in their respective states of domicile. The purpose of the insurance laws and regulations are to protect insureds, not our stockholders. These regulations are generally administered by the insurance departments in which the individual insurance companies are domiciled and relate to, among other things: · standards of solvency, including risk based capital measurements; 46 · restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; · required methods of accounting; · rate and form regulation pertaining to certain of our insurance businesses; and · potential assessments for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. Significant changes in these laws and regulations could make it more expensive to conduct our business. The New York Insurance Department for TICNY and the Massachusetts Department of Insurance for TNIC also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of their domiciled insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company issues and other matters. These regulatory requirements may adversely affect or inhibit our ability to achieve some or all of our business objectives. TICNY and TNIC may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or accreditations in new states we intend to enter, or may be able to do so only at significant cost. In addition, we may not be able to comply fully with or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies or holding companies. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business or engage in certain activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could subject us to fines and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations to which our operating subsidiaries are subject could adversely affect our ability to operate and expand our business or could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In recent years, the U.S. insurance regulatory framework has come under increased Federal scrutiny, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Moreover, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”), which is an association of the insurance commissioners of all 50 states and the District of Columbia, and state insurance regulators regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations, often focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws. Changes in these laws and regulations or the interpretation of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The recent highly publicized investigations of the insurance industry by the New York State Attorney General and other regulators and government officials have led to, and may continue to lead to, additional legislative and regulatory requirements for the insurance industry and may increase the costs of doing business. The activities of TRM are subject to licensing requirements and regulation under the laws of New York and New Jersey. TRM’s business depends on the validity of, and continued good standing under, the licenses and approvals pursuant to which it operates, as well as compliance with pertinent regulations. Licensing laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In all jurisdictions, the applicable licensing laws and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. Generally such authorities are vested with relatively broad and general discretion as to the granting, renewing and revoking of licenses and approvals. Licenses may be denied or revoked for various reasons, including the violation of such regulations, conviction of crimes and the like. Possible sanctions which may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business for specified periods of time, revocation of licenses, censures, redress to clients and fines. In some instances, TRM follows practices based on its or its counsels’ interpretations of laws and regulations, or those generally followed by the industry, which may prove to be different from those of regulatory authorities. 47 If the assessments we are required to pay are increased drastically our results of operations and financial condition will suffer. TICNY is subject to assessments in New York for various purposes, including the provision of funds necessary to fund the operations of the New York Insurance Department and the New York Security Fund, which pays covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. In 2005, the assessment for the New York Insurance Department was $589,000 and the New York Security Fund assessment was $941,000. These assessments are generally set based on an insurer’s percentage of the total premiums written in New York State within a particular line of business. The Company is permitted to assess premium surcharges on workers’ compensation policies that are based on statutorily enacted rates. However, assessments by the various workers’ compensation funds have recently exceeded the permitted surcharges resulting in additional expenses of $1,143,000 in 2004 and none in 2005. As of December 31, 2005 the liability for the various workers’ compensation funds, which includes amounts assessed on workers’ compensation policies was $2,776,000. This amount is expected to be paid over an eighteen month period ending June 30, 2007. As our company grows, our share of any assessments may increase. However, we cannot predict with certainty the amount of future assessments because they depend on factors outside our control, such as insolvencies of other insurance companies. Significant assessments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. TNIC did not write or assume premiums in 2005. As TNIC writes or assumes premiums it will be subject to regulatory assessments. Our ability to meet ongoing cash requirements and pay dividends may be limited by our holding company structure and regulatory constraints. Tower is a holding company and, as such, has no direct operations of its own. Tower does not expect to have any significant operations or assets other than its ownership of the shares of its operating subsidiaries. Dividends and other permitted payments from our operating subsidiaries are expected to be our primary source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including any future debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay dividends, if any, to our stockholders. TICNY is subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting its ability to declare and pay dividends. As of December 31, 2005, the maximum amount of distributions that TICNY could pay to Tower without approval of the New York Insurance Department was $4.0 million. The inability of TICNY to pay dividends and other permitted payments in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level would have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Because TNIC has not yet commenced insurance operations it has no positive unassigned surplus and, therefore, it may not pay dividends at this time without the approval of the Massachusetts Commissioner of Insurance. While we currently intend to pay dividends, if you require dividend income you should carefully consider these risks before relying on an investment in our company. For more information regarding restrictions on the payment of dividends. See “Item 5.—Dividend Policy” and “Item 1.—Regulation”. Although we have paid cash dividends in the past, we may not pay cash dividends in the future. We have a history of paying dividends to our stockholders when sufficient cash is available, and we currently intend to pay dividends in each quarter of 2006. However, future cash dividends will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and other factors, including the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us, which ability is restricted in the manner previously discussed in this section. Also, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends even if the necessary financial conditions are met and if sufficient cash is available for distribution. See “Item 5.—Dividend Policy”. 48 Risks Related to Our Industry The threat of terrorism and military and other actions may adversely affect our investment portfolio and may result in decreases in our net income, revenue and assets under management. The threat of terrorism, both within the United States and abroad, and military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and declines in the equity markets in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, as well as loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets and economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures. We cannot predict at this time whether and the extent to which industry sectors in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of potential decreased commercial and economic activity, or how any such decrease might impact the ability of companies within the affected industry sectors to pay interest or principal on their securities, or how the value of any underlying collateral might be affected. We can offer no assurances that terrorist attacks or the threat of future terrorist events in the United States and abroad or military actions by the United States will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our results of operations and revenues may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including cyclical changes in the insurance industry, which may cause the price of our securities to be volatile. The results of operations of companies in the property and casualty insurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Our profitability can be affected significantly by: · competition; · rising levels of loss costs that we cannot anticipate at the time we price our products; · volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made, weather-related and other natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks; · changes in the level of reinsurance capacity and capital capacity; · changes in the amount of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves resulting from new types of claims and new or changing judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers’ liabilities; and · fluctuations in equity markets and interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested assets and may impact the ultimate payout of losses. The supply of insurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance and reinsurance industry. As a result, the insurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. Premium levels for many products have increased in recent years. However, beginning in the latter part of 2004 and throughout 2005, rates for property and casualty insurance products began to moderate, and for certain products, began to decrease due to increased levels of competition. A.M. Best estimates that the industry wide change in net premiums written in the property casualty industry was 0.7% in 2005 compared to 4.7% in 2004 and is estimated to be 3.3% in 2006. The change in industry policyholders’ surplus as estimated by A.M. Best was 6.2% in 2005 compared to 13.6% in 2004 and is estimated to be 8.0% in 2006. In 49 addition, in 2005, A.M. Best estimated new capital or capacity of $20 billion was raised by the property casualty insurance and reinsurance industry. This additional underwriting capacity may result in increased competition from other insurers seeking to expand the types or amount of business they write or cause a shift in focus by some insurers to maintaining market share at the expense of underwriting discipline. These factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms and fewer submissions for our underwriting services. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of the insurance business significantly, and we expect to experience the effects of such cyclicality. This cyclicality could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and revenues, which may cause the price of our securities to be volatile. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has not received any written comments from the SEC Commission staff regarding its periodic or current reports for 2005. 