Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of trust stock involves a number of risks. Any of these risks could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and a corresponding decline in the market price of the shares. Risks Related to Our Business We have only operated as a combined company since December 2004, during which time we devoted significant resources to integrating our businesses, thereby diverting attention from strategic initiatives. We completed our initial public offering and the acquisition of our initial businesses and investments in December 2004 and completed additional acquisitions in our airport services business and airport parking business during 2005. Furthermore, with the exception of our district energy business, prior to our acquisition all of our businesses were privately owned and not subject to financial and disclosure requirements and controls applicable to U.S. public companies. We have expended significant time and resources throughout our operations to develop and implement effective systems and procedures, including accounting and financial reporting systems, in order to manage our operations on a combined basis as a consolidated U.S. public company. As a result, these businesses have been limited, and may continue to be limited, in their ability to pursue strategic operating initiatives and achieve our internal growth expectations. In addition, due to our short operating history as a consolidated U.S. public company, the performance of our consolidated business during its first year of operations may not be an accurate indicator of our prospects for future years. In the event of the underperformance of our Manager, we may be unable to remove our Manager, which could limit our ability to improve our performance and could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Under the terms of the management services agreement, our Manager must significantly underperform in order for the management services agreement to be terminated. The company’s board of directors cannot remove our Manager unless: • our shares underperform a weighted average of two benchmark indices by more than 30% in relative terms and more than 2.5% in absolute terms in 16 out of 20 consecutive quarters prior to and including the most recent full quarter, and the holders of a minimum of 66.67% of the 40 Table of Contents outstanding trust stock (excluding any shares of trust stock owned by our Manager or any affiliate of the Manager) vote to remove our Manager; • our Manager materially breaches the terms of the management services agreement and such breach continues unremedied for 60 days after notice; • our Manager acts with gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of its duties in carrying out its obligations under the management services agreement, or engages in fraudulent or dishonest acts; or • our Manager experiences certain bankruptcy events. Our Manager’s performance is measured by the market performance of our shares relative to a weighted average of two benchmark indices, a U.S. utilities index and a European utilities index, weighted in proportion to our U.S. and non-U.S. equity investments. As a result, even if the absolute market performance of our shares does not meet expectations, the company’s board of directors cannot remove our Manager unless the market performance of our shares also significantly underperforms the weighted average of the benchmark indices. If we were unable to remove our Manager in circumstances where the absolute market performance of our shares does not meet expectations, the market price of our shares could be negatively affected. Our Manager can resign on 90 days’ notice and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations which could adversely affect our financial results and negatively impact the market price of our shares. Our Manager has the right, under the management services agreement, to resign at any time on 90 days’ notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. Australian banking regulations that govern the operations of Macquarie Bank Limited and all of its subsidiaries, including our Manager, require that subsidiaries of Australian banks providing management services have these resignation rights. If our Manager resigns, we may not be able to find a new external manager or hire internal management with similar expertise within 90 days to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial results could be adversely affected, perhaps materially, and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management, acquisition activities and supervision of our businesses and investments are likely to suffer if we were unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by our Manager and its affiliates. Furthermore, if our Manager resigns, the trust, the company and its subsidiaries will be required to cease using the Macquarie brand entirely, including changing their names to remove any reference to “Macquarie.” This may cause the value of the company and the market price of our shares to decline. Our holding company structure may limit our ability to make regular distributions to our shareholders because we will rely on distributions both from our subsidiaries and the companies in which we hold investments. The company is a holding company with no operations. Therefore, it is dependent upon the ability of our businesses and investments to generate earnings and cash flows and distribute them to the company in the form of dividends and upstream debt payments to enable the company to meet its expenses and to make distributions to shareholders. The ability of our operating subsidiaries and the businesses in which we will hold investments to make distributions to the company is subject to limitations under the terms of their debt agreements and the applicable laws of their respective jurisdictions. If, as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we are unable to generate sufficient distributions from our businesses and investments, the company may not be able to declare or may have to delay or cancel payment of distributions on its shares. 41 Table of Contents Our businesses and the businesses in which we have invested have substantial indebtedness, which could inhibit their operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2005, on a consolidated basis, we had total long-term debt outstanding of $611 million, excluding affiliated debt relating to our toll road business, all of which is currently at the operating company level. All of this debt has recourse only to the relevant business. The companies in which we have investments also have debt. The terms of this debt generally require our operating businesses and the companies in which we have investments to comply with significant operating and financial covenants. The ability of each of our businesses and investments to meet their respective debt service obligations and to repay their outstanding indebtedness will depend primarily upon cash produced by that business. This indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • limiting the payment of dividends and distributions to us; • increasing the risk that our subsidiaries and the companies in which we hold investments might not generate sufficient cash to service their indebtedness; • limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our businesses because our subsidiaries or the companies in which we hold investments must dedicate a substantial portion of their operating cash flow to service their debt; • limiting our and our subsidiaries’ ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt services requirements, execution of our internal growth strategy, acquisitions or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures or adverse changes in government regulation. If we are unable to comply with the terms of any of our various debt agreements, we may be required to refinance a portion or all of the related debt or obtain additional financing. We may be unable to refinance or obtain additional financing because of our high levels of debt and debt incurrence restrictions under our debt agreements. We also may be forced to default on any of our various debt obligations if cash flow from the relevant operating business is insufficient and refinancing or additional financing is unavailable, and, as a result, the relevant debt holders may accelerate the maturity of their obligations. The audited financial statements of the company do not include meaningful comparisons to prior years. The audited financial statements of the company at and for the year ended December 31, 2004 include consolidated results of operations and cash flows only for the period from the date of acquisition to year end. Only our audited financial statements for our 2005 fiscal year contain full-year consolidated results of operations and cash flows. As a result, we cannot provide meaningful year-to-year comparisons until after the end of our 2006 fiscal year and cannot provide investors with a year over year comparative analysis of our business on a consolidated basis. The comparative analysis of our operating segments that we do present may not reflect all matters that a consolidated comparative analysis would. We own minority interests in our investments and may acquire similar minority interests in future investments, and consequently cannot exercise significant influence over their business or the level of their distributions to us, which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to generate cash and make distributions. We own minority positions in the investments in MCG and SEW and have limited legal rights to influence the management of those businesses or any other businesses in which we make minority investments. MCG is managed by an affiliate of our Manager and SEW is majority owned by an entity that is managed by an affiliate of our Manager. These entities may develop different objectives than we have and may not make distributions to us at levels that we anticipate. Our inability to exercise significant 42 Table of Contents influence over the operations, strategies and policies of the businesses in which we have, or may acquire, a minority interest means that decisions could be made that could adversely affect our results and our ability to generate cash and pay distributions on our shares. Our ability to successfully implement our growth strategy and to sustain and grow our distributions depends on our ability to successfully implement our acquisition strategy and manage the growth of our business. A major component of our strategy is to acquire additional infrastructure businesses both within the sectors in which we currently operate and in sectors where we currently have no presence. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses in a timely manner, failure of the acquired business to implement strategic initiatives we set for it and/or achieve expected results, failure to identify material risks or liabilities associated with the acquired business prior to its acquisition, diversion of management’s attention and internal resources away from the management of existing businesses and operations, and the failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business. We expect to face competition for acquisition opportunities, and some of our competitors may have greater financial resources or access to financing on more favorable terms than we will. This competition may limit our acquisition opportunities, may lead to higher acquisition prices or both. While we expect that our relationship with the Macquarie Group will help us in making acquisitions, we cannot assure you that the benefits we anticipate will be realized. The successful implementation of our acquisition strategy may result in the rapid growth of our business which may place significant demands on management, administrative, operational and financial resources. Furthermore, other than our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the personnel of ISF performing services for us under the management services agreement are not wholly dedicated to us, which may result in a further diversion of management time and resources. Our ability to manage our growth will depend on our maintaining and allocating an appropriate level of internal resources, information systems and controls throughout our business. Our inability to successfully implement our growth strategy or successfully manage growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow and ability to pay distributions on our shares. We may not be able to successfully fund future acquisitions of new infrastructure businesses due to the unavailability of debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, which could impede the implementation of our acquisition strategy and negatively impact our business. In order to make acquisitions, we will generally require funding from external sources. Since the timing and size of acquisitions cannot be readily predicted, we may need to be able to obtain funding on short notice to benefit fully from attractive opportunities. Debt to fund an acquisition may not be available on short notice or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Although we have a revolving credit facility at the MIC Inc. level primarily to fund acquisitions and capital expenditures, we may require more funding than is available under this facility and the level of our subsidiary indebtedness may limit our ability to expand this facility if needed or incur additional borrowings at the holding company level. This facility matures in 2008 and we may be unable to refinance any borrowing under this facility or enter into a new facility, which could impede our ability to pursue our acquisition strategy. In addition to debt financing, we will likely fund or refinance a portion of the consideration for future acquisitions through the issuance of additional shares. If our shares do not maintain a sufficient market value, issuance of new shares may result in dilution of our then-existing shareholders. In addition, issuances of new shares, either privately or publicly, may occur at a discount to our stock price at the time. Our equity financing activities may cause the market price of our stock to decline. Alternatively, we may not be able to complete the issuance of the required amount of shares on short notice or at all due to a lack of investor demand for the shares at prices that we find acceptable. As a result, we may not be able to pursue our acquisition strategy successfully. 43 Table of Contents Our businesses and investments are dependent on our relationships, on a contractual and regulatory level, with government entities that may have significant leverage over us. Government entities may be influenced by political considerations to take actions adverse to us. Our businesses and investments generally are, and our future businesses and investments may be, subject to substantial regulation by governmental agencies. In addition, their operations do and may rely on government permits, licenses, concessions, leases or contracts. Government entities, due to the wide-ranging scope of their authority, have significant leverage over us in their contractual and regulatory relationships with us that they may exercise in a manner that causes us delays in the operation of our business or pursuit of our strategy, or increased administrative expense. Furthermore, government permits, licenses, concessions, leases and contracts are generally very complex, which may result in periods of non-compliance, or disputes over interpretation or enforceability. If we fail to comply with these regulations or contractual obligations, we could be subject to monetary penalties or we may lose our rights to operate the affected business, or both. Where our ability to operate an infrastructure business is subject to a concession or lease from the government, the concession or lease may restrict our ability to operate the business in a way that maximizes cash flows and profitability. Further, our ability to grow our current and future businesses will often require consent of numerous government regulators. Increased regulation restricting the ownership or management of U.S. assets, particularly infrastructure assets, by non-U.S. persons, given the non-U.S. ultimate ownership of our Manager, may limit our ability to pursue acquisitions. Any such regulation may also limit our Manager’s ability to continue to manage our operations, which could cause disruption to our business and a decline in our performance. In addition, any required government consents may be costly to seek and we may not be able to obtain them. Failure to obtain any required consents could limit our ability to achieve our growth strategy. Our contracts with government entities may also contain clauses more favorable to the government counterparty than a typical commercial contract. For instance, a lease, concession or general service contract may enable the government to terminate the agreement without requiring them to pay adequate compensation. In addition, government counterparties also may have the discretion to change or increase regulation of our operations, or implement laws or regulations affecting our operations, separate from any contractual rights they may have. Governments have considerable discretion in implementing regulations that could impact these businesses. Because our businesses provide basic, everyday services, and face limited competition, governments may be influenced by political considerations to take actions that may hinder the efficient and profitable operation of our businesses and investments. Governmental agencies may determine the prices we charge and may be able to restrict our ability to operate our business to maximize profitability. Where our businesses or investments are sole or predominant service providers in their respective service areas and provide services that are essential to the community, they are likely to be subject to rate regulation by governmental agencies that will determine the prices they may charge. We may be subject to unfavorable price determinations that may be final with no right of appeal or that, despite a right of appeal, could result in our profits being negatively affected. In addition, we may have very little negotiating leverage in establishing contracts with government entities, which may decrease the prices that we otherwise might be able to charge or the terms upon which we provide products or services. Businesses and investments we acquire in the future may also be subject to rate regulation or similar negotiating limitations. Our results are subject to quarterly and seasonal fluctuations. Our businesses can be subject to seasonal variations. Our district energy business generally experiences greater revenues and profitability in the summer months. Accordingly, our operating results for any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. 44 Table of Contents The ownership of businesses and investments located outside of the United States exposes us to currency exchange risks that may result in a decrease in the carrying value of our investments and a decrease in the amount of distributions we receive from our businesses and investments, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Our interests in CHL, MCG and SEW are subject to risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, as the reporting currencies of CHL and SEW are Pounds Sterling, and the reporting currency of MCG is Australian dollars. We receive distributions from CHL, MCG and SEW denominated in these currencies. Fluctuations in the currency exchange rates for Pounds Sterling and Australian dollars against the U.S. dollar resulting in losses from any such fluctuations will be reflected in our results. A strengthening of the U.S. dollar against these currencies would reduce the U.S. dollar amount of the distributions we receive from these foreign operations. Certain provisions of the management services agreement, the operating agreement of the company and the trust agreement make it difficult for third parties to acquire control of the trust and the company and could deprive you of the opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for your shares. In addition to the limited circumstances in which our Manager can be terminated under the terms of the management services agreement, the management services agreement provides that in circumstances where the trust stock ceases to be listed on a recognized U.S. exchange or on the Nasdaq National Market as a result of the acquisition of trust stock by third parties in an amount that results in the trust stock ceasing to meet the distribution and trading criteria on such exchange or market, the Manager has the option to either propose an alternate fee structure and remain our Manager or resign, terminate the management services agreement upon 30 days’ written notice and be paid a substantial termination fee. The termination fee payable on the Manager’s exercise of its right to resign as our Manager subsequent to a delisting of our shares could delay or prevent a change in control that may favor our shareholders. Furthermore, in the event of such a delisting, any proceeds from the sale, lease or exchange of a significant amount of assets must be reinvested in new assets of our company. We are also prohibited from incurring any new indebtedness or engaging in any transactions with the shareholders of the company or its affiliates without the prior written approval of the Manager. These provisions could deprive the shareholders of the trust of opportunities to realize a premium on the shares of trust stock owned by them. The operating agreement of the company, which we refer to as the LLC agreement, and the trust agreement contain a number of provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from acquiring, control of the trust and the company. These provisions include: • restrictions on the company’s ability to enter into certain transactions with our major shareholders, with the exception of our Manager, modeled on the limitation contained in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law; • allowing only the company’s board of directors to fill vacancies, including newly created directorships and requiring that directors may be removed only for cause and by a shareholder vote of 662/3%; • requiring that only the company’s chairman or board of directors may call a special meeting of our shareholders; • prohibiting shareholders from taking any action by written consent; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to the company’s board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by our shareholders at a shareholders meeting; • having a substantial number of additional shares of authorized but unissued trust stock; 45 Table of Contents • providing the company’s board of directors with broad authority to amend the LLC agreement and the trust agreement; and • requiring that any person who is the beneficial owner of ten percent or more of our shares make a number of representations to the City of Chicago in its standard form of Economic Disclosure Statement, or EDS, the current form of which is included in our LLC agreement, which is incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this report. Our airport parking business has a substantial amount of senior debt due to mature in 2006. The inability to extend, refinance or repay this debt when due would have a material adverse effect on the business. In addition, if interest rates or margins increase, the cost of servicing any refinancing debt will increase, reducing our profitability and ability to pay dividends. Our airport parking business has $126 million of senior debt due in 2006. This loan will have to be extended or refinanced on the maturity date or repaid. While our airport parking business has the option to extend the senior debt for up to two additional one-year periods, we cannot assure you that we will meet the criteria necessary to exercise these extensions at that time or that replacement loans will be available. If available, replacement loans may only be available at substantially higher interest rates or margins or with substantially more restrictive covenants. Either event may limit the operational flexibility of the business and its ability to upstream dividends and distributions. We also cannot assure you that we or the other owners of Macquarie Parking will be able to make capital contributions to repay some or all of the debt if required. If our airport parking business were unable to repay its debts when due, this business would become insolvent. If interest rates or margins increase, our businesses will pay higher rates of interest on any debts that they raise to refinance existing debt, thereby reducing their profitability and, consequently, having an adverse impact on their ability to pay dividends to us and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. In addition, we do not currently have any interest rate hedges in place to cover any borrowings under our MIC Inc. revolving credit facility. If we draw down on our MIC Inc. revolving credit facility, an increase in interest rates would directly reduce our profitability and cash available for distribution to shareholders. Our MIC Inc. revolving credit facility matures in 2008 and we expect to repay or refinance any borrowing outstanding at that time and enter into a similar facility. An increase in interests rates or margins at that time may significantly increase the cost of any repayment or the terms associated with any refinancing. Our businesses and investments have environmental risks that may impact our future profitability. The operations of our businesses and investments are, and businesses we acquire or investments we make in the future may be, subject to numerous statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection. In particular, our airport services business is subject to environmental protection requirements relating to the storage, transport, pumping and transfer of fuel, and our district energy business is subject to requirements relating mainly to its handling of significant amounts of hazardous materials. Certain statutes, rules and regulations might also require that our businesses, or businesses we acquire in the future, address possible prior or future environmental contamination, including soil and groundwater contamination, that results from the spillage of fuel, hazardous materials or other pollutants. Under various federal, state, local and foreign environmental statutes, rules and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for noncompliance with applicable environmental and health and safety requirements and for the costs of investigation, monitoring, removal or remediation of hazardous materials. These laws often impose liability, whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous materials. The presence of these hazardous materials on a property could also result in personal injury or property damage or similar claims by private parties. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of those materials at the disposal or treatment facility, whether or not that facility is or ever was owned or operated by that person. 46 Table of Contents Any liability resulting from noncompliance or other claims relating to environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and prospects. We are dependent on certain key personnel, and the loss of key personnel, or the inability to retain or replace qualified employees, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate our businesses on a stand-alone basis, relying on existing management teams for day-to-day operations. Consequently, our operational success, as well as the success of our internal growth strategy, will be dependent on the continued efforts of the management teams of our businesses, who have extensive experience in the day-to-day operations of these businesses. Furthermore, we will likely be dependent on the operating management teams of businesses that we may acquire in the future. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to retain or replace qualified employees, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any adverse development in the general aviation industry that results in less air traffic at airports we service would have a material adverse impact on our airport services business. A large part of the revenues at our airport services business is generated from fuel sales and other services provided to general aviation customers. Air travel and air traffic volume of general aviation customers can be affected by airport-specific occurrences as well as events that have nationwide and industry-wide implications. The events of September 11, 2001 had a significant adverse impact on the aviation industry, particularly in terms of traffic volume due to forced closures. Immediately following September 11, 2001, thousands of general aviation aircraft were grounded for weeks due to the FAA’s “no-fly zone” restrictions imposed on the operation of aircraft. Airport specific circumstances include situations in which our major customers relocate their home base or preferred fueling stop to alternative locations. Additionally, the general economic conditions of the area where the airport is located will impact the ability of our FBOs to attract general aviation customers or generate fuel sales, or both. Significant increases in fuel prices may also decrease the demand for our services, including refueling services, or result in lower fuel sales margins, or both, leading to lower operating income. Changes in the general aviation market as a whole may adversely affect our airport services business. General aviation travel is more expensive than alternative modes of travel. Consequently, during periods of economic downturn, FBO customers may choose to travel by less expensive means, which could impact the earnings of our airport services business. In addition, changes to regulations governing the tax treatment relating to general aviation travel, either for businesses or individuals, may cause a reduction in general aviation travel. Travel by commercial airlines may also become more attractive for general aviation travelers if the cost of commercial airline travel decreases or if service levels improve. Under these circumstances, our FBOs may lose customers to the commercial air travel market, which may decrease our earnings. Our airport services business is subject to a variety of competitive pressures, and the actions of competitors may have a material adverse effect on the revenues of our airport services business. FBO operators at a particular airport compete based on a number of factors, including location of the facility relative to runways and street access, service, value added features, reliability and price. Many of our FBOs compete with one or more FBOs at their respective airports, and, to a lesser extent, with FBOs at nearby airports. We cannot predict the actions of competitors who may seek to increase market share. Some present and potential competitors have or may obtain greater financial and marketing resources than we do, which may negatively impact our ability to compete at each airport. Our sole provider FBOs (including the heliport) do not have the right to be the sole provider of FBO services at any of our FBO locations. The authority responsible for each airport has the ability to grant other FBO leases at the airport and new competitors could be established at those FBO locations. The addition 47 Table of Contents of new competitors is particularly likely if we are seen to be earning significant profits from these FBO operations. Any such actions, if successful, may reduce, or impair our ability to increase, the revenues of the FBO business. The termination for cause or convenience of one or more of the FBO leases would damage our airport services business significantly. Our airport services revenues are derived from long-term FBO leases at airports and one heliport. If we default on the terms and conditions of our leases, the relevant authority may terminate the lease without compensation, and we would then lose the income from that location, and would be in default under the loan agreements of our airport services business and be obliged to repay our lenders a portion or all of our outstanding loan amount. Our leases at Chicago Midway, Philadelphia, North East Philadelphia, New Orleans International and Orange County, and the Metroport 34th Street Heliport in New York City allow the relevant authority to terminate the lease at their convenience. If the relevant authority were to terminate any of those leases, we would then lose the income from that location and be obliged to repay our lenders a portion or all of the then outstanding loan amount. Occupancy of our airport parking business’ facilities is dependent on the level of passenger traffic at the airports at which we operate and reductions in passenger traffic could negatively impact our results of operations. Our airport parking business’ parking facilities are dependent upon parking traffic primarily generated by commercial airline passengers and are therefore susceptible to competition from other airports and to disruptions in passenger traffic at the airports at which we operate. For example, the events of September 11, 2001 had a significant impact on the aviation industry and, as a result, negatively impacted occupancy levels at parking facilities. In the first few days following September 11, 2001, revenue from our parking facilities was negligible and did not fully recover until some months after the event. Other events such as wars, outbreaks of disease, such as SARS, and terrorist activities in the United States or overseas may reduce airport traffic and therefore occupancy rates. In addition, traffic at an airport at which we have facilities may be reduced if airlines reduce the number of flights at that airport. Our airport parking business is exposed to competition from both on-airport and off-airport parking, which could slow our growth or harm our business. At each of the locations at which our airport parking business operates, it competes with both on-airport parking facilities, many of which are located closer to passenger terminals, and other off-airport parking facilities. If an airport expands its parking facilities or if new off-airport parking facilities are opened or existing facilities expanded, customers may be drawn away from our sites or we may have to reduce our parking rates, or both. Parking rates charged by us at each of our locations are set with reference to a number of factors, including prices charged by competitors and quality of service by on-airport and off-airport competitors, the location and quality of the facility and the level of service provided. Additional sources of competition to our parking operations may come from new or improved transportation to the airports where our parking facilities are located. Improved rail, bus or other services may encourage our customers not to drive to the airport and therefore negatively impact revenue. Changes in regulation by airport authorities or other governmental bodies governing the transportation of customers to and from the airports at which our airport parking business operates may negatively affect our operating results. Our airport parking business’ shuttle operations transport customers between the airport terminals and its parking facilities and are regulated by, and are subject to, the rules and policies of the relevant local airport authority, which may be changed at their discretion. Some airport authorities levy fees on off-airport parking operators for the right to transport customers to the terminals. There is a risk that airport authorities 48 Table of Contents may deny or restrict our access to terminals, impede our ability to manage our shuttle operations efficiently, impose new fees or increase the fees currently levied. Further, the FAA and the Transportation Security Administration, or TSA, regulate the operations of all the airports at which our airport parking business has locations. The TSA has the authority to restrict access to airports as well as to impose parking and other restrictions around the airports. The TSA could impose more stringent restrictions in the future that would inhibit the ability of customers to use our parking facilities. Pursuant to the terms of a use agreement with the City of Chicago, the City of Chicago has rights that, if exercised, could have a significant negative impact on our district energy business. In order to operate our district cooling system in downtown Chicago, we have obtained the right to use certain public ways of the City of Chicago under a use agreement, which we refer to as the Use Agreement. Under the terms of the Use Agreement, the City of Chicago retains the right to use the public ways for a public purpose and has the right in the interest of public safety or convenience to cause us to remove, modify, replace or relocate our facilities at our own expense. If the City of Chicago exercises these rights, we could incur significant costs and our ability to provide service to our customers could be disrupted, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Use Agreement is non-exclusive, and the City of Chicago is entitled to enter into use agreements with our potential competitors. The Use Agreement expires on December 31, 2020 and may be terminated by the City of Chicago for any uncured material breach of its terms and conditions. The City of Chicago also may require us to pay liquidated damages of $6,000 a day if we fail to remove, modify, replace or relocate our facilities when required to do so, if we install any facilities that are not properly authorized under the Use Agreement or if our district cooling system does not conform to the City of Chicago’s standards. Each of these noncompliance penalties could result in substantial financial loss or effectively shut down our district cooling system in downtown Chicago. Any proposed renewal, extension or modification of the Use Agreement requires approval by the City Council of Chicago. Extensions and modifications subject to the City of Chicago’s approval include those to enable the expansion of chilling capacity and the connection of new customers to the district cooling system. The City of Chicago’s approval is contingent upon the timely filing of an Economic Disclosure Statement, or EDS, by us and certain of the beneficial owners of our stock. If any of these investors fails to file a completed EDS form within 30 days of the City of Chicago’s request or files an incomplete or inaccurate EDS, the City of Chicago has the right to refuse to provide the necessary approval for any extension or modification of the Use Agreement or to rescind the Use Agreement altogether. If the City of Chicago declines to approve extensions or modifications to the Use Agreement, we may not be able to increase the capacity of our district cooling system and pursue our growth strategy for our district energy business. Furthermore, if the City of Chicago rescinds or voids the Use Agreement, our district cooling system in downtown Chicago would be effectively shut down and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected as a result. Certain of our investors may be required to comply with certain disclosure requirements of the City of Chicago and noncompliance may result in the City of Chicago’s rescission or voidance of the Use Agreement and any other arrangements our district energy business may have with the City of Chicago at the time of the noncompliance. In order to secure any amendment to the Use Agreement with the City of Chicago to pursue expansion plans or otherwise, or to enter into other contracts with the City of Chicago, the City of Chicago may require any person who owns or acquires seven and one half percent or more of our shares to make a number of representations to the City of Chicago by filing a completed EDS. Our LLC agreement and our trust agreement require that in the event that we need to obtain approval from the City of Chicago in the 49 Table of Contents future for any specific matter, including to expand the district cooling system or to amend the Use Agreement, we and each of our then ten percent investors would need to submit an EDS to the City of Chicago within 30 days of the City of Chicago’s request. In addition, our LLC agreement and our trust agreement require each ten percent investor to provide any supplemental information needed to update any EDS filed with the City of Chicago as required by the City of Chicago and as requested by us from time to time. However, in 2005, the City of Chicago passed an ordinance lowering the ownership percentage for which an EDS is required from ten percent to seven and one half percent. We are currently in discussions with the City of Chicago that would allow us to satisfy this requirement through an alternative solution. If we fail to reach agreement with the City of Chicago in a timely manner, we may need to extend the requirements in our LLC and trust agreements to seven and one half percent owners. Any EDS filed by an investor may become publicly available. By completing and signing an EDS, an investor will have waived and released any possible rights or claims which it may have against the City of Chicago in connection with the public release of information contained in the EDS and also will have authorized the City of Chicago to verify the accuracy of information submitted in the EDS. The requirements and consequences of filing an EDS with the City of Chicago will make compliance with the EDS requirements difficult for our investors. If an investor fails to provide us and the City of Chicago with the information required by an EDS, our LLC and trust agreements provide us with the right to seek specific performance by such investor. However, we currently do not have this right with respect to investors that own less than ten percent of our shares. In addition, any action for specific performance we bring may not be successful in securing timely compliance of every investor with the EDS requirements. If any investor fails to comply with the EDS requirements on time or the City of Chicago determines that any information provided in any EDS is false, incomplete or inaccurate, the City of Chicago may rescind or void the Use Agreement or any other arrangements Thermal Chicago has with the City of Chicago, and pursue any other remedies available to them. If the City of Chicago rescinds or voids the Use Agreement, our district cooling system in downtown Chicago would be effectively shut down and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected as a result. Our district energy business may not be able to fully pass increases in electricity costs through to its customers, thereby resulting in lowered operating income. This risk may be increased by the deregulation of electricity markets in Illinois scheduled for January 2007, which may result in higher and more volatile electricity prices. The Illinois electricity markets are expected to deregulate beginning in January 2007 and we will be required to enter into new electricity purchase arrangements effective at that time as discussed under “Our Businesses and Investments — District Energy Business — Business — Thermal Chicago — Electricity Costs” in Item 1. Business. ComEd has proposed a procurement process referred to as a reverse-auction. The market prices of electricity available to us are likely to reflect prices established in the reverse-auction process. Market prices of electricity in Illinois are also affected by changes in natural gas prices, which have been very volatile, but overall have increased significantly over the past year. We cannot predict the market prices for electricity that we will face beginning in 2007 but we anticipate, based on current market dynamics, that our electricity will increase substantially in 2007. If these market dynamics change in a way that is adverse to us, our costs could be higher than we currently anticipate. In addition, on August 31, 2005, ComEd filed a rate case with the ICC, which seeks, among other things, to increase delivery rates in a manner that we believe disproportionately impacts larger users of electricity. If the rate case is approved as currently proposed, our electricity costs would increase by an additional $2 million annually. The index adjustment in our contracts is unlikely to fully offset these costs. In addition, because our contracts typically adjust consumption charges annually, there is likely to be a significant lag before changes in market prices of electricity are reflected in our contracts overall. As a result of these increased electricity costs, the performance of our district energy business is likely to decline, which could have a 50 Table of Contents material adverse effect on distributions from our district energy business to us and our ability to maintain our distributions to shareholders with funds from operations. If certain events within or beyond the control of our district energy business occur, our district energy business may be unable to perform its contractual obligations to provide chilling and heating services to its customers. If, as a result, its customers elect to terminate their contracts, our district energy business may suffer loss of revenues. In addition, our district energy business may be required to make payments to such customers for damages. In the event of a shutdown of one or more of our district energy business’ plants due to operational breakdown, strikes, the inability to retain or replace key technical personnel or events outside its control, such as an electricity blackout, or unprecedented weather conditions in Chicago, our district energy business may be unable to continue to provide chilling and heating services to all of its customers. As a result, our district energy business may be in breach of the terms of some or all of its customer contracts. In the event that such customers elect to terminate their contracts with our district energy business as a consequence of their loss of service, its revenues may be materially adversely affected. In addition, under a number of contracts, our district energy business may be required to pay damages to a customer in the event that a cessation of service results in loss to that customer. Northwind Aladdin currently derives approximately 90% of its cash flows from a contract with a single customer, the Aladdin resort and casino, which recently emerged from bankruptcy. If this customer were to enter into bankruptcy again, our contract may be amended or terminated and we may receive no compensation, which could result in the loss of our investment in Northwind Aladdin. Northwind Aladdin derives approximately 90% of its cash flows from a contract with the Aladdin resort and casino in Las Vegas to supply cold and hot water and back-up electricity. The Aladdin resort and casino emerged from bankruptcy immediately prior to MDE’s acquisition of Northwind Aladdin in September 2004, and, during the course of those proceedings, the contract with Northwind Aladdin was amended to reduce the payment obligations of the Aladdin resort and casino. If the Aladdin resort and casino were to enter into bankruptcy again and a cheaper source of the services that Northwind Aladdin provides can be found, our contract may be terminated or amended. This could result in a total loss or significant reduction in our income from Northwind Aladdin, for which we may receive no compensation. Our toll road business’ revenues may be adversely affected if traffic volumes remain stable or decline. Since the shadow toll revenues payable by the U.K. government’s Secretary of State for Transport, or the Transport Secretary, are linked to the volume of traffic using the Yorkshire Link, our toll road business’ revenues will be adversely affected if traffic volumes decline. A decline in traffic volume could result from a number of factors, including recession, increases in fuel prices, attractive alternative transport routes or improvements in public transportation. In addition, pursuant to the formulas provided by the terms of the concession, shadow toll revenues will decrease through time if there is no growth in traffic volume or inflation. The magnitude of the decrease varies depending on the total volume of traffic; however, in the year ended March 31, 2005, in the absence of traffic volume growth or inflation, revenues of Yorkshire Link would have declined by approximately £0.6 million or 1.3% compared to revenues for the year ended March 31, 2004. Also, the concession provides for a significant reduction in the shadow toll revenues payable by the Transport Secretary from 2014. 51 Table of Contents The Transport Secretary may terminate the concession without compensation to our toll road business or with insufficient compensation, which would reduce the value of our investment and negatively affect our operating results. If our toll road business defaults on its obligations set out in the concession, the Transport Secretary may terminate the concession without compensation to our toll road business. Even if our toll road business does not default on its obligations under the concession, the Transport Secretary may terminate the concession in the event that: • the performance of the concession becomes impossible without the exercise of a statutory power by the Transport Secretary; • the Transport Secretary chooses not to exercise that power following a request from our toll road business; and • our toll road business and the Transport Secretary fail to agree on an alternative means of performance within a period of 90 days. We are unable to predict if or when such circumstances might occur. The concession also may be terminated by the Transport Secretary in certain other circumstances, including an event of force majeure. The compensation required to be paid in such circumstances may be insufficient for us to recover our full investment in our toll road business. Failure to compensate our toll road business in the event of termination may result in the value of our investment in our toll road business being reduced to nothing since our toll road business would likely default on its debt obligations in these circumstances. We share control of our toll road business equally with our partner Balfour Beatty and, as a result, are not in a position to control operations, strategies or financial decisions without the concurrence of Balfour Beatty. We hold a 50% interest in our toll road business and the remaining 50% is held by Balfour Beatty. We are not in a position to control operations, strategies or financial decisions without the agreement of Balfour Beatty. Conflicts may arise in the future between our business objectives and those of Balfour Beatty. If this were to occur, decisions to take action necessary, in our view, for the proper management of the business might not be made. MCG’s investments in Broadcast Australia and Arqiva rely upon key customers. If contracts with these customers were terminated and Broadcast Australia or Arqiva were not adequately compensated, or if the contracts were not renewed, MCG’s revenues would be significantly reduced. MCG’s only investments at present are 100% ownership of Broadcast Australia and a 54% stake in Arqiva. Broadcast Australia’s two key customers are the government-owned national broadcasters, the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, or the ABC, and Special Broadcasting Service, or SBS, which together accounted for approximately 87% of Broadcast Australia’s total revenue in its fiscal year ended June 30, 2005. ABC and SBS both currently receive Australian government funding to provide transmission services, but that funding could be reduced or withdrawn. Broadcast Australia has entered into a series of long-term contracts with ABC and SBS, with terms generally ending between 2008 and 2024. The majority of Arqiva’s revenue is earned under long-term contracts with a small number of customers, with terms generally ending between 2007 and 2015. If these contracts are terminated and Broadcast Australia or Arqiva are not adequately compensated, or the contracts are not renewed at their expiration, Broadcast Australia’s or Arqiva’s operations would be materially adversely affected. A change in the ownership of the ABC or SBS may cause Broadcast Australia to be in default under its loan agreements, which would adversely affect dividends paid by MCG to us. An event of default occurs under Broadcast Australia’s loan agreements if the Australian government ceases to own more than 50% of the issued shares of the ABC and if Broadcast Australia’s medium-term 52 Table of Contents notes have not been repaid within 270 days, or if the Australian government ceases to own or control more than 50% of the issued shares of the ABC or SBS and this has a material adverse effect on Broadcast Australia’s ability to perform its obligations under the loan agreements. If such an event of default occurs, it will adversely affect the amount of dividends paid by MCG to us. SEW’s revenues are subject to regulation and SEW may receive unfavorable treatment from U.K. regulatory authorities, which could negatively impact its revenue in the future. As the sole water-only supplier in its service areas, the prices that SEW charges for its services are subject to review and approval every five years by Ofwat, the water regulator for England and Wales. Ofwat has the power to deny recovery of certain operating expenses and/or capital expenditures. These are significant for SEW, in common with other water companies in England and Wales, due to the age of some parts of their water network. Similarly, Ofwat could determine that a reduced return on invested capital should be allowed. Taking these views and reducing the prices that SEW charges for its services would cause a negative impact on the future revenues of the company. SEW is dependent on the availability of water supplies and, if such supply is not sufficient, could incur substantial costs, which, despite the existence of interim pricing review mechanisms, may not be adequately compensated. SEW requires sufficient water to supply its customer base. The availability of water is subject to, among other things, SEW continuing to benefit from water abstraction licenses, contractual arrangements for the supply of water from neighboring water companies, investment in increasing water resources to match customer growth and short-term issues affecting water supply, such as drought. Ofwat has placed SEW, along with other southern water companies, in the lowest quartile in terms of security of water supply. As a result of the current water shortage and continuing housepipe ban, SEW has been exposed to additional costs and reputational damage. There are significant uncertainties beyond SEW’s control affecting the amount of water resources, including climate change, the amount of annual rainfall, the rate of house building and industrial development in SEW’s service areas and other factors. SEW could incur substantial costs to secure a sufficient water supply which, despite the existence of interim pricing review mechanisms, may not be adequately compensated. SEW is required to comply with government regulations with respect to water quality. If SEW failed to comply, SEW could be fined, become subject to other punitive regulatory action and/or become liable for any injury caused to its customers by inadequate water quality, any of which could have a significant negative impact on SEW’s profitability. SEW’s water quality is required to meet standards set by the U.K. government’s Drinking Water Inspectorate. In addition, SEW is required to meet other U.K. government guidelines in relation to the security of its facilities. If SEW failed to comply with these guidelines, SEW could be fined, become subject to other punitive regulatory action and/or become liable for any injury caused to its customers by inadequate water quality, any of which could have a significant negative impact on SEW’s profitability. We may face a greater exposure to terrorism than other companies because of the nature of our businesses and investments. We believe that infrastructure businesses face a greater risk of terrorist attack than other businesses, particularly those businesses that have operations within the immediate vicinity of metropolitan and suburban areas. Any terrorist attacks that occur at or near our business locations would likely cause significant harm to our employees and assets. As a result of the terrorist attacks in New York on September 11, 2001, insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events. A terrorist attack that makes use of our property, or property under our control, may result in liability far in excess of available insurance coverage. In addition, any further terrorist attack, regardless of location, could cause a disruption 53 Table of Contents to our business and a decline in earnings. Furthermore, it is likely to result in an increase in insurance premiums and a reduction in coverage, which could cause our profitability to suffer. The market price and marketability of our shares may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors beyond our control, which may adversely affect our ability to raise capital through future equity financings. The market price of our shares may fluctuate significantly. Many factors that are beyond our control may significantly affect the market price and marketability of our shares and may adversely affect our ability to raise capital through equity financings. These factors include the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the stock markets generally; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of registered investment companies, business development companies or companies in our sectors, which may not be related to the operating performance of these companies; • changes in our earnings or variations in operating results; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; • changes in regulatory policies or tax law; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; and • loss of a major funding source. A significant and sustained increase in the price of oil could have a negative impact on the revenues of a number of our businesses. A significant and sustained increase in the price of oil could have a negative impact on the revenues of a number of our business. Higher prices for jet fuel could result in less use of aircraft by general aviation customers which would have a negative impact on the revenues of our airport services business. Higher prices for jet fuel will increase the cost of traveling by commercial aviation which could result in lower enplanements at the airports where our airport parking business operates and therefore less patronage of our parking facilities and lower revenues. Higher fuel prices could also result in less traffic using Yorkshire Link and therefore lower shadow toll payments and would increase the cost of power to our district energy business which it may not be able to fully pass on to customers pursuant to the terms of our contracts with them. Risks Related to Taxation Shareholders may be subject to taxation on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Shareholders may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation and, in some cases, state, local, and foreign income taxation on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Shareholders may not receive cash distributions equal to their share of our taxable income or even the tax liability that results from that income. In addition, if we invest in the stock of a controlled foreign corporation (or if one of the corporations in which we invest becomes a controlled foreign corporation, an event which we cannot control), we may recognize taxable income, which shareholders will be required to take into account in determining their taxable income, without a corresponding receipt of cash to distribute to them. 54 Table of Contents If the company fails to satisfy the “qualifying income” exception, all of its income, including income derived from its non-U.S. assets, will be subject to an entity-level tax in the United States, which could result in a material reduction in our shareholders’ cash flow and after-tax return and thus could result in a substantial reduction in the value of the shares. A publicly traded partnership will not be characterized as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes so long as 90% or more of its gross income for each taxable year constitutes “qualifying income” within the meaning of Section 7704(d) of the Code. We refer to this exception as the qualifying income exception. The company has concluded that it is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This conclusion is based upon the fact that: (a) the company has not elected and will not elect to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes; and (b) for each taxable year, the company expects that more than 90% of its gross income is and will be income that constitutes qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704(d) of the Code. Qualifying income includes dividends, interest and capital gains from the sale or other disposition of stocks and bonds. If the company fails to satisfy the “qualifying income” exception described above, items of income and deduction would not pass through to shareholders and shareholders would be treated for U.S. federal (and certain state and local) income tax purposes as shareholders in a corporation. In such case, the company would be required to pay income tax at regular corporate rates on all of its income, including income derived from its non-U.S. assets. In addition, the company would likely be liable for state and local income and/or franchise taxes on all of such income. Distributions to shareholders would constitute ordinary dividend income taxable to such shareholders to the extent of the company’s earnings and profits, and the payment of these dividends would not be deductible by the company. Taxation of the company as a corporation could result in a material reduction in our shareholders’ cash flow and after-tax return and thus could result in a substantial reduction of the value of the shares. The current treatment of qualified dividend income and long-term capital gains under current U.S. federal income tax law may be adversely affected, changed or repealed in the future. Further, should the dividends we receive from CHL, MCG and SEW no longer be treated as qualified dividend income, your distributive share of any dividends we receive from such companies will be taxed at the tax rates generally applicable to ordinary income, which could negatively impact your after-tax return. Under current law, qualified dividend income and long-term capital gains are taxed to non-corporate investors at a maximum U.S. federal income tax rate of 15%. This tax treatment may be adversely affected, changed or repealed by future changes in tax laws at any time and is currently scheduled to expire for tax years beginning after December 31, 2008. We anticipate that we will report each shareholder’s distributive share of dividends we receive from SEW as qualified dividend income, but it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, may take a contrary view under existing law or that regulations or other administrative guidance interpreting the qualified dividend income provisions will prevent dividends received by the company from SEW from constituting qualified dividend income. Further, because the ownership and activities of CHL, MCG and SEW are not within our control, each of such entities could experience a change of ownership or activities that could result in dividends we receive from such corporations no longer being considered qualified dividend income, and we will be unable to stop such a change from occurring. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 