Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below, elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are important risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results of operations, business and financial condition to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should consider carefully the following risk factors before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Our business, including our operating results and financial condition, could be harmed by any of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may 12 Table of Contents materially and adversely affect our business. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks you should also refer to the other information contained in our filings with the SEC, including our financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business Our revenues are highly dependent upon several major clients, and any loss of business from our major clients would reduce our revenues and seriously harm us. For the three months period ended December 31, 2006, our three largest clients, EarthLink, Expedia and Washington Mutual, accounted for 43% of our revenues, and our customer concentration has been even higher for prior periods. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, our three largest clients, Expedia, EarthLink and Vonage, accounted for 46% of our revenues. If we fail to renew or extend our contracts with our clients, or if these contracts are terminated for cause or convenience, our clients will have no obligation to purchase services from us. Our clients may from time to time conduct a request for proposal, or RFP, process to solicit bids for outsourcing services, including from our competitors, and we may not be successful in retaining or expanding our relationship with this client. Vonage recently went through such an RFP process, as a result, of which they elected not to renew their current contract with us and allow it to expire in May 2007. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, our revenues from Vonage were approximately $0.4 million, $5.6 million and $14.0 million, respectively. It is unlikely the lost revenue from a major client would be entirely offset by corresponding reductions in expenses. Any reduction in revenues would harm our business, negatively affect operating results, and may lead to a decline in the price of our common stock. Our revenues are highly dependent on a few industries and any decrease in demand for outsourced services in these industries would likely reduce our revenues and seriously harm our business. Our major clients are concentrated in the travel and hospitality, financial services, technology, telecommunications and consumer products industries. Increased competition, consolidation, a downturn, or a reversal of the trend toward outsourcing in any of these industries, would likely result in a decrease in the demand for our services or the cancellation or non-renewal of existing contracts. In addition, we are dependent in large part on the projected growth of these industries, which may not materialize. These industries have been cyclical and vulnerable to significant downturns in the past, and adverse developments in these industries could unfavorably affect our business. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly and could cause the market price of our common stock to fall rapidly and without notice. Our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. In particular, demand for the services or products of our major clients in the travel and hospitality industry typically drops in the fourth quarter as compared to other periods, and therefore the need for our services is reduced as well. Recent results of operations should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. In addition, our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock could fall substantially, either suddenly or over time. A reversal of industry trends toward offshore outsourcing due to negative public reaction in the United States would harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that operate facilities located in the United States. Our revenues and growth depend in large part on U.S. industry trends towards outsourcing customer management and other business processes offshore. The trend to outsource business processes may not continue and could reverse. There has been recent publicity about the negative experience of certain companies that use offshore outsourcing, particularly in India. Current or prospective clients may elect to perform services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring services to offshore providers to avoid any negative perception that may be associated with using an offshore provider. Our risk is compounded by the fact that the majority of BPO services we provide involve interaction with the general public (e.g., our clients’ customers), which may be more sensitive to negative public reaction to offshore outsourcing. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends would harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors who operate out of facilities located in the United States. 13 Table of Contents We serve markets that are highly competitive, and increased competition, our inability to compete successfully against current or future competitors, pricing pressures or loss of market share could result in increased costs and reduced operating margins. We currently face significant competition from our clients’ and our potential clients’ in-house customer service groups and growing competition from other BPO companies, including those in the United States, the Philippines, India and elsewhere. We expect this competition to continue to increase. New competitors may include entrants from the communications, software and data networking industries or entrants from other geographic locations with lower costs than those in which we operate. These companies also may have greater financial, personnel and other resources, longer operating histories, more recognizable brand names and more established client relationships. Many of these companies compete with us primarily on price and are often able to offer lower costs to potential clients. Many of our contracts can be terminated by our clients on short notice and in many cases without penalty. We also generally do not have exclusive arrangements with our clients or a minimum revenue commitment from our clients, which creates uncertainty about the volume of services we will provide and the amount of revenues we will generate from any of our clients. Many of our clients could terminate their relationship with us or significantly reduce their demand for our services due to a variety of factors, including factors that are unpredictable and outside of our control. In addition, in many cases, we are not the exclusive provider of outsourcing services to our clients. The services we provide to a client could be reduced for a variety of reasons, including our client’s decision to move more customer management functions in-house, or to an affiliated outsourcing provider or one of our competitors, changing economic factors, internal financial challenges or political or public relations reasons. Any significant reduction in client demand for our service would harm our business, negatively affect operating results and would likely lead to a decline in the price of our common stock. We often encounter a long sales and implementation cycle requiring significant resource commitments by our clients, which they may be unwilling or unable to make. The sales and implementation of our customer management services involves significant resource commitments by us and our clients. We generally expend substantial time and money addressing potential clients’ service and operational questions and assessing the feasibility of integrating our systems and processes with theirs. Decisions relating to outsourcing business processes generally involve the evaluation of the service by our clients’ senior management and a significant number of client personnel in various functional areas, each having specific and often conflicting requirements. We may expend significant resources, including funds and management time, during the sales cycle. Ultimately, the client may not engage our services or may cancel services before we have recovered the resources expended during the sales and implementation cycle, which may range from six to twelve months or longer. Unsuccessful or delayed sales and implementations may negatively impact our revenues and margins. We have incurred substantial losses in the past and may not be profitable in the future. We did not become profitable until 2003 and incurred significant losses in each of the five fiscal years through 2002. As a result of our operating losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $16.1 million at December 31, 2006. Further, we expect our marketing, sales and other operating expenses to increase in the future as we seek to expand our business. If our revenues do not grow at a faster rate than these expected increases in our expenses, or if our operating expenses are higher than we anticipate, we may not be profitable and we may incur additional losses. We have a limited operating history and our business and future prospects are difficult to evaluate. We have a limited operating history. We consolidated our operations in the Philippines in 2002 and 2003, and commenced our accounts receivable management services in July 2003. We acquired our transcription and captioning business in January 2006. We began developing new BPO facilities in Costa Rica in the first quarter of 2006. As a result of our recent entry into these markets, our business and future prospects are difficult to evaluate. 14 Table of Contents We are also exploring opportunities to provide other outsourced services that we have not provided to date. You should consider the challenges, risks, and uncertainties frequently encountered by early-stage companies using new and unproven business models in rapidly evolving markets. These challenges include our ability to: • attract and retain clients; • attract and retain key personnel and qualified professionals; • generate sufficient revenues and manage costs to maintain profitability; • integrate acquisitions, adjust to new businesses and develop operating procedures for new countries; • manage growth in our operations; and • access additional capital when required and on reasonable terms. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, the quality of our services may decline, our revenue and margins may be reduced and we may incur losses. We have expanded significantly since our formation and intend to maintain our growth focus. Continued growth could place a strain on our management, operations and financial resources. Our infrastructure, facilities and personnel may not be adequate to support our future operations or to adapt effectively to our growth. As a result, we may be unable to manage our growth effectively, in which case the quality of our services may decrease and clients may become dissatisfied and reduce demand for our services. As a result, our operating costs may increase at a faster rate than the growth in our revenues, our margins may decline and we may incur losses. We may experience significant employee turnover rates in the future and we may be unable to hire and retain enough sufficiently trained employees to support our operations, which could harm our business. The business process outsourcing industry is very labor intensive and our success depends on our ability to attract, hire and retain qualified employees. We focus in particular on recruiting college-educated personnel and compete for candidates with companies in our industry and in other industries. As the BPO industry expands in the Philippines, this competition is increasing. Our growth requires that we continually hire and train new personnel. The BPO industry, including the customer management services industry, has traditionally experienced high employee turnover. A significant increase in the turnover rate among our employees would increase our recruiting and training costs and decrease operating efficiency and productivity, and could lead to a decline in demand for our services. If this were to occur, we would be unable to service our clients effectively and this would reduce our ability to continue our growth and operate profitably. Our senior management team is important to our continued success and the loss of members of senior management could negatively affect our operations. The loss of the services of Lance Rosenzweig, our Chief Executive Officer, Caroline Rook, our Chief Financial Officer, or Rainerio Borja, our President of PeopleSupport (Philippines), Inc., as well as other executive personnel, could seriously impair our ability to continue to manage and expand our business. Our success depends on the continued service and performance of our executive officers, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain these individuals. Our executive officers are “at-will” employees who are not subject to employment agreements providing for any specified term of employment. We do not have “key man” insurance, nor are our U.S.-based executive officers subject to non-compete restrictions. Our facilities are at risk of damage by earthquake, typhoons, tsunamis and other natural disasters. We are dependent on our facilities in Southern California, the Philippines and Costa Rica to provide service and support to our clients. These facilities are located in regions that are susceptible to earthquakes and other natural disasters, including, in the Philippines, typhoons and volcanic eruptions. These dangers increase the risk of disruption of information systems and telephone service for sustained periods. Damage or destruction that interrupts our ability to perform outsourcing services could damage our relationship with our clients and may cause us to incur substantial additional expense to provide alternative services to repair or replace damaged equipment or facilities 15 Table of Contents and may subject us to penalties during such disruption. Prolonged disruption of our services as a result of natural disasters may entitle our clients to terminate their contracts with us. Our insurance policies specifically exclude certain natural disasters, such as earthquakes, and may not be sufficient even if we do have coverage. Furthermore, we may be unable to secure such insurance coverage or to secure such insurance coverage at premiums acceptable to us in the future. Our operations could suffer from telecommunications or technology downtime, disruptions or increased costs. We are highly dependent on our computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems. In the normal course of our business, we must record and process significant amounts of data quickly and accurately to access, maintain and expand the databases we use for our services. We are also dependent on continuous availability of voice and electronic communication with customers. If we experience interruptions of our telecommunications network with our clients, we may experience data loss or a reduction in revenues. These disruptions could be the result of natural disasters, errors by our vendors, clients, or third parties, electronic or physical attacks by persons seeking to disrupt our operations, or the operations of our vendors, clients, or others. For example, we currently depend on a limited number of vendors for facility storage and related maintenance of our main technology equipment and data at our U.S. data centers. Any failure of these vendors to perform these services could result in business disruptions and impede our ability to provide services to our clients. We also may be required to pay penalties to our clients. A significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could lead our present and potential clients not to use our services. The temporary or permanent loss of equipment or systems through casualty or operating malfunction could reduce our revenues and harm our business. We could cause disruptions to our clients’ business from inadequate service, and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover this risk. Most of our contracts with our clients contain service level and performance requirements, including requirements relating to the timing and quality of responses to customer inquiries. The quality of services that we provide is measured by quality assurance ratings, which are based in part on the results of customer satisfaction surveys and direct monitoring of interactions between our professionals and customers. Failure to meet service requirements of a client could disrupt the client’s business and result in a reduction in revenues or a claim for substantial damages against us. For example, some of our agreements have standards for service that, if not met by us, result in lower payments to us. In addition, because many of our projects are business-critical projects for our clients, a failure or inability to meet a client’s expectations could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to attract new business. While we maintain commercial liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions, this coverage may be inadequate to cover one or more large claims, and our insurer may deny coverage. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client and customer data, whether through breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could expose us to protracted and costly litigation and cause us to lose clients. We are typically required to collect and store sensitive data in connection with our services, including names, addresses, social security numbers, medical records, personal credit card account numbers, checking and savings account numbers and payment history records, such as account closures and returned checks. Some of our clients are subject to U.S. federal and state regulations requiring the protection of sensitive customer information, and new legislation could increase the range of possible penalties for certain entities that fail to protect such information. If any person, including any of our employees, misappropriates or mismanages sensitive data, we could be subject to liability for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws which could have a negative impact on our reputation and could lead our present and potential clients to choose other service providers. 16 Table of Contents Our clients may adopt technologies that decrease the demand for our services, which could reduce our revenues and seriously harm our business. Our clients may adopt new technologies that decrease the need for live customer interactions, such as interactive voice response, web-based self-help, voice recognition software for transcription and other technologies used to automate interactions with customers. The adoption of such technologies could reduce the demand for our services, put downward pressure on our pricing, cause a reduction in our revenues and harm our business. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards in the United States may be limited. We intend to use our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards to reduce the U.S. corporate income tax liability associated with our operations. Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986 generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in stock ownership. Based on our analysis, which includes assumptions regarding the respective value of our stock, we believe that our net operating losses are subject to limitation under Section 382. While no assurance can be given, based on our current analysis we do not anticipate that a Section 382 limitation will significantly delay the use of our net operating loss carryforwards. No assurance can be given, however, that future events (including, but not limited to, substantially increased forecast income, impact of acquisitions and significant increases during the applicable testing period in the percentage of our stock owned directly or constructively by (i) any stockholder who owns 5% or more of our stock or (ii) some or all of the group of stockholders who individually own less than 5% of our stock) will not trigger additional Section 382 limitations and, as a result, adversely affect our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards. To the extent our use of net operating loss carryforwards is significantly limited under the rules of Section 382 (as a result of our November 2006 secondary offering or otherwise), our income could be subject to U.S. corporate income tax earlier than it would if we were able to use net operating loss carryforwards, which could result in lower profits. We may choose to expand operations to other countries and may not be successful. In the first half of 2006, we began operations in a new BPO center in Costa Rica. We may consider expanding to countries other than the Philippines and Costa Rica. We cannot predict the extent of government support, availability of qualified workers, or monetary and economic conditions in other countries. Although some of these factors will influence our decision to establish operations in another country, there are inherent risks beyond our control, including exposure to currency fluctuations, political uncertainties, foreign exchange restrictions and foreign regulatory restrictions. One or more of these factors or other factors relating to international operations could result in increased operating expenses and make it more difficult for us to manage our costs and operations, which could harm our business and negatively impact our operating results. We may make acquisitions that prove unsuccessful or divert our resources. In the first quarter of 2006, we acquired Rapidtext, Inc. and its subsidiary, The Transcription Company, which added transcription and captioning to our service offerings. We are still integrating Rapidtext into our offshore operating platform. We intend to consider acquisitions of other companies that could complement our business, including the acquisition of companies with expertise in other businesses and clients that we do not currently serve. We have little experience in completing acquisitions of other businesses. We may incur expenses and be unable to successfully complete future acquisitions. If we acquire other businesses, we may be unable to successfully integrate these businesses with our own and maintain our standards, controls and policies. Acquisitions may place additional constraints on our resources by diverting the attention of our management from existing operations. Through acquisitions, we may enter markets in which we have little or no experience. Any acquisition may result in a potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets, all of which could lower our margins and harm our business. 17 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive laws and regulations that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. The BPO industry has become subject to an increasing amount of federal and state regulation in the past five years. Despite our focus on inbound customer management, we are subject to regulations governing communications with consumers due to the activities we undertake on behalf of our clients to encourage customers to purchase higher value, additional or complementary products and services offered by our clients. For example, the Federal Trade Commission’s Telemarketing Sales Rule, issued pursuant to the Federal Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act of 1994, applies a number of limitations and restrictions on our sales activities during inbound calls as well as on our ability to make outbound calls on behalf of our clients. Similarly, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 and regulations issued by the Federal Communications Commission restrict various telemarketing practices, including the use of automated dialing technology. Many states also have telemarketing laws that may apply to our business. A violation of such federal and state regulations could result in civil penalties or lawsuits by consumers, which in turn could have a negative impact on our reputation and could lead our present and potential clients to choose other service providers. In addition, limits on the transport of personal information across international borders such as those now in place in the European Union (and proposed elsewhere) may limit our ability to obtain customer data. Our clients’ business operations are subject to certain rules and regulations in the United States, such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the HIPAA, and the customer privacy provisions of the Communications Act. Our clients may contractually require that we perform our services in a manner that would enable them to comply with such rules and regulations. Failure to perform our services in compliance with these laws could result in breaches of contract with our clients and, in some limited circumstances, civil fines and criminal penalties for us. We are also subject to significant federal and state laws and regulations applicable to our accounts receivable management services, including the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, which imposes significant limitations and restrictions on our debt collection practices including licensing requirements. These laws and regulations may limit our ability to recover and enforce defaulted consumer receivables regardless of any act or omission on our part. Some laws and regulations applicable to credit cards, debit cards, checks and other negotiable items may preclude us from collecting on defaulted consumer receivables we purchase or obtain through contingency placements from originators if they or others failed to comply with applicable laws in generating or servicing those receivables. Additional federal, state, local or international legislation, or changes in regulatory implementation, could further limit our activities or those of our clients in the future or significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance. New consumer protection and privacy protection laws or regulations are likely to impose additional requirements on the enforcement of and recovery on consumer credit card or installment accounts, telephonic sales, Internet communications and other portions of our business. As a purchaser of defaulted consumer receivables, we may acquire receivables subject to legitimate defenses on the part of the consumer. New federal and state legislation may be enacted that could restrict or discourage U.S. companies from outsourcing their services to companies outside the United States. Complying with new laws and regulations could significantly increase our cost of doing business and adversely impact our financial condition. Our ability to raise capital in the future, if and when needed, may be limited, and could prevent us from executing our business strategy. The sale of additional equity securities would result in further dilution to our stockholders. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements for acquisitions, expansion or other purposes, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain other debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Bank debt or debt securities would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that restrict our operations. We may be unable to secure financing in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all, in which case we may not have the funds necessary to finance our ongoing capital requirements to execute our business strategy. 18 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economy, disrupt our operations and cause our business to suffer. The risks of civil unrest and terrorism exists and U.S. companies in particular may experience greater risks. We are not insured against terrorism risks. Terrorist attacks have the potential to directly impact our clients and the economy by making travel more difficult, interrupting lines of communication and curtailing our ability to deliver our services to our clients. These obstacles may increase our expenses and harm our business. Risks Related to Doing Business in the Philippines We may face competition in the Philippines for our professionals, which could increase the cost of qualified employees and the amount of employee turnover. We are faced with competition in the Philippines for outsourcing center professionals, and we expect this competition to increase as additional outsourcing companies, and other companies with a demand for college-educated personnel, enter the market and expand their operations. In particular, there may be limited availability of qualified middle and upper management candidates. We have benefited from an excess of supply over demand for college graduates in the Philippines. If this favorable imbalance changes due to increased competition, it could affect the availability or cost of qualified professionals, who are critical to our performance. This could increase our costs and turnover rates. The Philippines periodically experiences political or economic instability, which could disrupt our operations, increase our costs and harm our business. The Philippines continues to experience low growth in its gross domestic product, significant inflation and shortages of foreign exchange. We are exposed to the risk of rental and other cost increases due to inflation in the Philippines, which has historically been at a much higher rate than in the United States. These conditions could create political or economic instability that could harm businesses operating in the Philippines. In addition, the Philippines has and may continue to experience political instability, including strikes, demonstrations, protests, marches, coups d’état, guerilla activity or other types of civil disorder. Potential demonstrations associated with the mid-term elections in May 2007 could disrupt commerce. These instabilities and any adverse changes in the political environment in the Philippines could increase our operational costs, increase our exposure to legal and business risks and make it more difficult for us to operate our business in the Philippines. Currency fluctuations in the Philippine peso relative to the U.S. dollar has increased and could continue to increase our expenses. All of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, and a substantial portion of our costs are incurred and paid in Philippine pesos. We are therefore exposed to the risk of an increase in the value of the Philippine peso relative to the U.S. dollar. In 2005 and through December 31, 2006, appreciation in the Philippine peso has increased our expenses, and future appreciation in the peso will continue to increase expenses. In January 2007 to offset recent declines in the value of the U.S. dollar against the Philippine peso, we entered into various forward foreign currency contracts covering approximately $60.0 million at an average exchange rate of 49 Philippine pesos per U.S. dollar. While we intend for these contracts to decrease the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, they may result in increased fluctuations. The current tax holidays in the Philippines may not be extended. We currently benefit from income tax holiday incentives in the Philippines. Our current income tax holidays expire at staggered dates beginning in the fourth quarter of 2007 and ending in 2009. While we fully intend to apply for extensions of these holidays, it is possible that such extensions could be denied, or that due to changes in the government of the Philippines that these holidays could be removed entirely. Should either of these events occur, our Philippine tax liability could increase. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Doing Business in Costa Rica We have limited experience with operations in Costa Rica and are subject to particular risks associated with the development of operations in Costa Rica. Costa Rica, while regarded as a relatively stable Central American country, has been subject to economic and political challenges present in Latin America in general and in Central America in particular. Costa Rica has often experienced high internal and external debt and significant inflation, as well as pressure from political instability in the neighboring Central American countries of Nicaragua and Panama. Economic instabilities and adverse changes in the political environment in Costa Rica could increase our operational costs, increase our exposure to legal and business risks and make it more difficult for us to operate our business in Costa Rica. Some of the significant risks we face in our Costa Rican operations include the following: • we may be unable to find, hire or retain, at rates attractive to us, a sufficient number of qualified employees; • currency fluctuations in the Costa Rican colon relative to the U.S. dollar could significantly increase our expenses; • we are dependent on telecommunications service provided by a limited number of available vendors in order to conduct our business, and if the telecommunications service were to fail, experience problems or be interrupted or unreliable, we may be unable to service our client or fulfill our contractual obligations; • our facilities are at risk of damage by earthquakes, typhoons and other natural disasters; and • we may have overestimated the demand for Spanish language BPO services which may not be sufficient to expand our Costa Rican operations. Our Costa Rican operations are dependent on a single client, Washington Mutual, which has the option to acquire the operations from us and therefore deprive us of our presence in Latin America. Our Costa Rican options are dependent on a single financial services client, Washington Mutual. Under the terms of our contract, Washington Mutual may acquire our Costa Rican operations from us with 30 days notice at anytime prior to the expiration of its contract with us in 2009 by paying a termination fee that is intended to cover our costs of transferring our operations to Washington Mutual. If Washington Mutual were to acquire the operations from us, we would not have a presence in Latin America unless we establish other Latin American operations, which could require significant time and new investment. If Washington Mutual purchases our Costa Rican operations from us, this could be a setback in our ability to provide bilingual English-Spanish services. In addition, the contract allows a reconciliation of actual allowable costs to invoiced amounts from inception of our services to Washington Mutual’s acquisition of the operations from us. To the extent that actual allowable costs are less than corresponding invoiced costs, we must repay this overage to Washington Mutual at that time. Government regulations and various bureaucratic constraints have increased and may continue to increase operational costs in Costa Rica beyond budgeted expectations. Primarily due to government regulations and various bureaucratic constraints, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, higher than expected costs of doing business in Costa Rica. These additional costs may adversely affect our operations, result in delays that cause us to be unable to fulfill our contractual obligations and could have an adverse impact on our financial statements. Current Costa Rican tax holidays through 2013, from which we benefit, may be changed. Any change or revocation of the current tax holidays may subject us to greater taxes. Risks Related to Our Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid, or at all. Before our initial public offering, our common stock was not traded in a public market. Since the completion of our initial public offering, our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. We cannot predict the extent to 20 Table of Contents which the trading market will continue to develop or how liquid that market might become. Prices for our common stock could be influenced by a variety of factors, including the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perception of us, our business and our industry, the consumer credit and outsourcing industries, and general economic and market conditions. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations due to the factors discussed in this risk factors section and elsewhere herein. In addition, the stock market in general and the NASDAQ Global Market have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Trading prices and valuations may not be sustainable. Broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, following periods of volatility in the overall market and a decline in the market price of a company’s stock, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. If securities or industry analysts cease publishing research or reports about our business or if they change negatively their recommendations regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us publishes negative research on us or our industry, or downgrades our stock, as has occurred, our stock price may decline. If one or more of these analysts cease or limit coverage of us or our industry, or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. We will continue to incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ Global Market, has required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These rules and regulations have increased and may continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage business combinations and takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult, expensive or otherwise discourage a tender offer or a change in control or takeover attempt by a third-party that is opposed by our board of directors. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in management that stockholders consider favorable. In particular, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that: • classify our board of directors into three groups, each of which will serve for staggered three-year terms; • permit the board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors; • permit stockholders to remove our directors only for cause; • permit a special stockholders’ meeting to be called only by our chairman of the board of directors, president, or chief executive officer, a majority of our board of directors or two-thirds of the independent directors; • require stockholders to give us advance notice to nominate candidates for election to our board of directors or to make stockholder proposals at a stockholders’ meeting; • permit our board of directors to issue, without approval of our stockholders, up to 4,000,000 shares of preferred stock with terms that our board of directors may determine and that may be senior to the terms of our common stock; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors that would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect directors; 21 Table of Contents • permit the board of directors to alter certain provisions of our amended and restated bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; • require approval of at least 75% of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our amended and restated bylaws or amend or repeal the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors and the ability of stockholders to take action; and • eliminate the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent. Additionally, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. As of December 31, 2006, 23,478,658 shares of our common stock were outstanding and approximately 2,125,627 shares were issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options and vesting of restricted shares. As of December 31, 2006, the number of shares of our outstanding common stock freely tradeable on the NASDAQ Global Market and not owned by our officers, directors or other affiliates was approximately 22,449,115 shares. In addition, we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a registration statement on Form S-3 authorizing us to issue up to $100 million of public equity or debt in the future, we issued $96.6 million of that amount on November 10, 2006, and we may offer an additional $3.4 million under that registration statement. Additional common stock in public or private offerings to raise capital or any stock issuance in connection with an acquisition may result in future sales of stock in the public market. Future sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 