ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors, among others, could cause USA Mobility’s actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. The rate of gross subscriber cancellations may not decrease, or could increase. USA Mobility’s revenues are dependent on the number of subscribers that use its paging devices. There is intense competition for these subscribers from other paging service providers and alternate telecommunications providers such as mobile phone and mobile data service providers. These subscribers may cancel the Company’s services due to pricing and/or may migrate to alternate technologies. If the rate of gross subscriber cancellations does not decrease, or if gross subscriber cancellations were to increase, it would have a material adverse impact on the Company’s ability to remain profitable, to continue to produce positive operating cash flow, and to continue the payment of cash distributions to stockholders. 10 The level of revenue erosion may not improve, or may deteriorate. USA Mobility and the paging industry continues to face intense competition for subscribers due to competition from the mobile phone and mobile data service providers as they continue to lower device prices while adding functionality. A key factor in the Company’s ability to be profitable and produce net cash flow from operations is realizing improvement in the level of revenue erosion from historical trends. USA Mobility is dependent on net cash provided by operations as its principal source of liquidity. If no improvement is realized, or if revenue erosion accelerates, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to remain profitable, to continue to produce positive operating cash flow, and to continue the payment of cash distributions to stockholders. USA Mobility may fail to achieve the cost savings necessary to maintain positive operating cash flow. USA Mobility expects its revenue to continue to decline substantially in the future, therefore maintaining positive operating cash flow is dependent on substantially reducing operating costs. Achieving cost reductions of the magnitude necessary requires the Company to continue to reduce its internal costs, as well as continually negotiate lower costs from its outside vendors. The reduction of site rent costs, a significant component of the Company’s cost structure, requires that rationalization of the Company’s network infrastructure and negotiation with potentially numerous landlords be coordinated. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in reducing its costs to the level necessary to maintain positive net cash flow. If the Company is not successful at continuing to reduce operating costs, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to remain profitable, to continue to produce positive operating cash flow, and to continue the payment of cash distributions to stockholders. Service to the Company’s customers could be adversely impacted by network rationalization. The Company has an active program to consolidate its number of networks and related transmitter locations, which is referred to as network rationalization. Network rationalization is necessary to match the Company’s technical infrastructure to its smaller subscriber base and to reduce both site rent and telecommunications costs. The implementation of the network rationalization program could adversely impact service to the Company’s existing subscribers despite the Company’s efforts to minimize the impact on subscribers. This adverse impact could increase the rate of gross subscriber cancellations and/or the level of revenue erosion. Adverse changes in gross subscriber cancellations and/or revenue erosion could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to remain profitable, to continue to produce positive operating cash flow, and to continue the payment of cash distributions to stockholders. If the Company is unable to retain key management personnel, it might not be able to find suitable replacements on a timely basis or at all, and the Company’s business could be disrupted. USA Mobility’s success will depend, to a significant extent, upon the continued service of a relatively small group of key executive and management personnel. USA Mobility has an employment agreement with its president and chief executive officer. In addition, the Board of Directors has implemented both short-term and long-term incentive plans for key employees of the Company. Annually, the Company has a cash-based short-term incentive program based on certain performance metrics including profitability and continued employment with the Company. With respect to long-term incentives, the Company in 2005 granted to key employees restricted shares of common stock (“restricted stock”) that vest starting on January 1, 2007 through January 1, 2008 and depend upon continued employment with the Company. Additionally, in 2006, the Company implemented a second long-term incentive plan that includes both a restricted stock component and a cash component, each subject to vesting on January 1, 2009 and to achievement of expense reduction goals during the Company’s 2008 calendar year and continued employment with the Company. The loss or unavailability of one or more of the Company’s executive officers or the inability to attract or retain key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future operating results, financial position, cash flows and ability to continue payment of cash distributions to stockholders. 11 USA Mobility may be unable to find vendors willing to supply it with paging equipment based on future demands. The Company purchases paging equipment from third party vendors. This equipment is sold or leased to customers in order to provide wireless messaging services. The reduction in industry demand for paging equipment has caused various suppliers to cease manufacturing this equipment. There can be no assurance that the Company can continue to find vendors to supply paging equipment, or that the vendors will supply equipment at costs that allow the Company to remain a competitive alternative in the wireless messaging industry. A lack of paging equipment could impact the Company’s ability to provide certain wireless messaging services and could materially adversely affect its financial position, operating cash flows, and ability to continue payment of cash distributions to stockholders. USA Mobility may be unable to realize the benefits associated with its deferred income tax assets. The Company has significant deferred income tax assets that are available to offset future taxable income and increase cash flows from operations. The use of these deferred income tax assets is dependent on the availability of taxable income in future periods. The availability of future taxable income is dependent on the Company’s ability to continue to reduce operating cost and maintain profitability as both revenues and subscribers are expected to decline in the future. To the extent that anticipated reductions in operating costs do not occur or sufficient revenues are not generated, the Company may not achieve sufficient taxable income to allow for use of its deferred income tax assets. If the Company is unable to use these deferred income tax assets, there could be a material reduction in the Company’s after-tax net income, cash flows from operations and ability to continue payment of cash distributions to stockholders. USA Mobility’s deferred income tax assets are based on tax positions that have not been validated by Federal and/or state tax authorities. One of the Company’s largest individual class of assets is its deferred income tax assets. These deferred income tax assets are based on past tax positions taken by the Company and its predecessors and subsidiaries in their Federal and state income tax returns. These tax positions were based on the applicable laws and regulations existing at the time, and, in some cases, these laws and regulations were subject to varying interpretations. While the Company believes that its tax positions are supportable, reasonable and appropriate, the Company’s interpretations have not been validated by either the Internal Revenue Service or applicable state agencies. The Company is currently subject to two Federal income tax audits and could be subject to state income tax audits. The final results of these audits could result in adjustments to the Company’s previously taken tax positions and the underlying deferred income tax assets. Any such adjustments could result in a material change to the carrying value of the deferred income tax assets. Material downward adjustments to the deferred income tax assets could result in future taxable income from operations. Future taxable income could result in cash payments for income taxes and in a material reduction in cash from operating activities. Significant cash payments for income taxes could impact the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay cash distributions to stockholders. USA Mobility is regulated by the FCC and, to a lesser extent, state and local regulating governmental bodies. Changes in regulation could result in increased costs to the Company. USA Mobility is subject to regulation by the FCC and, to a lesser extent, by state and local authorities. Changes in regulatory policy could increase the fees the Company must pay to the government or to third parties and could subject the Company to more stringent requirements that could cause the Company to incur additional capital and/or operating costs. For example the FCC issued a recent order in October 2007 that mandated paging carriers (such as the Company) along with all other CMRS providers serving a defined minimum subscribers to maintain an emergency backup power supply at all cell sites to enable operation for a minimum of eight hours in the event of a loss of commercial power (the “Back-up Power Order”). While the Back-up Power Order is not yet effective, the Company expects that compliance with the Back-up Power Order would entail significant capital and operating costs that 12 could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operations, cash flows and ability to continue payment of cash distributions to stockholders. (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) USA Mobility has a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting and can provide no assurance that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. The Company’s failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in the financial statements. Management has identified a material weakness in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that affected USA Mobility’s interim financial statements for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.” The material weakness in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the period related to ineffective controls over the accuracy and valuation of the provision for income taxes. The Company can provide no assurance that additional material weaknesses in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties that may be encountered in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses, cause the Company to fail to meet its periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in the Company’s financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor reports regarding the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated under Section 404. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in the Company’s financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company had no unresolved SEC staff comments as of March 7, 2008. 