Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of trust stock involves a number of risks. Any of these risks could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and a corresponding decline in the market price of the shares. Risks Related to Our Business Our holding company structure may limit our ability to make regular distributions to our shareholders because we will rely on distributions both from our subsidiaries and the companies in which we hold investments. The company is a holding company with no operations. Therefore, it is dependent upon the ability of our businesses and investments to generate earnings and cash flows and distribute them to the company in the form of 32 dividends and upstream debt payments to enable the company to meet its expenses and to make distributions to shareholders. The ability of our operating subsidiaries and the businesses in which we will hold investments to make distributions to the company is subject to limitations under the terms of their debt agreements and the applicable laws of their respective jurisdictions. If, as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we are unable to generate sufficient distributions from our businesses and investments, the company may not be able to declare or may have to delay or cancel payment of distributions on its shares. Our businesses have substantial indebtedness, which could inhibit their operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2006, on a consolidated basis, we had total long-term debt outstanding of $963.7 million, all of which is at the operating business level, plus a significant amount of additional availability under existing credit facilities, primarily $300.0 million under the MIC Inc. acquisition facility. IMTT also has a significant level of debt. The terms of these debt arrangements generally require compliance with significant operating and financial covenants. The ability of each of our businesses or investments to meet their respective debt service obligations and to repay their outstanding indebtedness will depend primarily upon cash produced by that business. This indebtedness could have important consequences, including: · limiting the payment of dividends and distributions to us; · increasing the risk that our subsidiaries might not generate sufficient cash to service their indebtedness; · limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our businesses because our subsidiaries must dedicate a substantial portion of their operating cash flow to service their debt; · limiting our and our subsidiaries’ ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt services requirements, execution of our internal growth strategy, acquisitions or other purposes; and · limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures or adverse changes in government regulation. If we are unable to comply with the terms of any of our various debt agreements, we may be required to refinance a portion or all of the related debt or obtain additional financing. We may be unable to refinance or obtain additional financing because of our high levels of debt and debt incurrence restrictions under our debt agreements. We also may be forced to default on any of our various debt obligations if cash flow from the relevant operating business is insufficient and refinancing or additional financing is unavailable, and, as a result, the relevant debt holders may accelerate the maturity of their obligations. Our ability to successfully implement our growth strategy and to sustain and grow our distributions depends on our ability to successfully implement our acquisition strategy and manage the growth of our business. A major component of our strategy is to acquire additional infrastructure businesses both within the sectors in which we currently operate and in sectors where we currently have no presence. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses in a timely manner, failure of the acquired business to implement strategic initiatives we set for it and/or achieve expected results, failure to identify material risks or liabilities associated with the acquired business prior to its acquisition, diversion of management’s attention and internal resources away from the management of existing businesses and operations, and the failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business. We expect to face competition for acquisition opportunities, and some of our competitors may have greater financial resources or access to financing on more favorable terms than we will. This competition may limit our acquisition opportunities, may lead to higher acquisition prices or both. While we expect that our relationship with the Macquarie Group will help us in making acquisitions, we cannot assure you that the benefits we anticipate will be realized. The successful implementation of our acquisition strategy may result in the rapid growth of our business which may place significant demands on management, administrative, operational and financial resources. Furthermore, other than our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the personnel of IBF performing services for us under the management services agreement are not wholly dedicated to us, which may result in a further diversion of management time and resources. Our ability to manage our growth will depend on our maintaining and allocating an appropriate level of internal resources, information systems and controls throughout our business. Our inability to successfully implement our growth strategy or successfully manage growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow and ability to pay distributions on our shares. 33 Since our initial public offering, we have devoted significant resources to integrating our initial and newly acquired businesses, thereby diverting attention from strategic operating initiatives. We completed our initial public offering and the acquisition of our initial businesses and investments in December 2004 and since that time have completed numerous additional acquisitions. Prior to our acquisition, most of our businesses were privately owned and not subject to financial and disclosure requirements and controls applicable to U.S. public companies. We have expended significant time and resources to develop and implement effective systems and procedures, including accounting and financial reporting systems, in order to manage our operations on a combined basis as a consolidated U.S. public company. As a result, these businesses have been limited, and may continue to be limited, in their ability to pursue strategic operating initiatives and achieve our internal growth expectations. We may not be able to successfully fund future acquisitions of new infrastructure businesses due to the unavailability of debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, which could impede the implementation of our acquisition strategy and negatively impact our business. In order to make acquisitions, we will generally require funding from external sources. Since the timing and size of acquisitions cannot be readily predicted, we may need to be able to obtain funding on short notice to benefit fully from attractive opportunities. Sufficient funding for an acquisition may not be available on short notice or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Although we have a revolving credit facility at the MIC Inc. level primarily to fund acquisitions and capital expenditures, we may require more funding than is available under this facility. Furthermore, the level of our subsidiary indebtedness may limit our ability to expand this facility if needed or incur additional borrowings at the holding company level. This facility matures in 2008 and we may be unable to refinance any borrowing that is outstanding under this facility at that time or enter into a replacement facility, which could impede our ability to pursue our acquisition strategy. In addition to debt financing, we will likely fund or refinance a portion of the consideration for future acquisitions through the issuance of additional shares. If our shares do not maintain a sufficient market value, issuance of new shares may result in dilution of our then-existing shareholders. In addition, issuances of new shares, either privately or publicly, may occur at a discount to our stock price at the time. Our equity financing activities may cause the market price of our stock to decline. Alternatively, we may not be able to complete the issuance of the required amount of shares on short notice or at all due to a lack of investor demand for the shares at prices that we find acceptable. As a result, we may not be able to pursue our acquisition strategy successfully. If interest rates or margins increase, the cost of refinancing debt and servicing our acquisition facility will increase, reducing our profitability and ability to pay dividends. We have substantial indebtedness with maturities ranging from 3 years to 19 years. Refinancing this debt may result in substantially higher interest rates or margins or substantially more restrictive covenants. Either event may limit operational flexibility or reduce upstream dividends and distributions to us. We also cannot assure you that we or the other owners of any of our businesses or investments will be able to make capital contributions to repay some or all of the debt if required. If any of our businesses or investments were unable to repay its debts when due, it would become insolvent. Increased interest rates or margins would reduce the profitability of the relevant business or investment and, consequently, would have an adverse impact on its ability to pay dividends to us and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. In addition, we do not currently have any interest rate hedges in place to cover any borrowings under our MIC Inc. revolving credit facility. If we draw down on our MIC Inc. revolving credit facility, an increase in interest rates would directly reduce our profitability and cash available for distribution to shareholders. Our MIC Inc. revolving credit facility matures in 2008 and we expect to repay or refinance any borrowing outstanding at that time and enter into a similar facility. An increase in interest rates or margins at that time may significantly increase the cost of any repayment or the terms associated with any refinancing. 34 We own, and may acquire in the future, investments in which we share voting control with third parties and, consequently, our ability to exercise significant influence over the business or level of their distributions to us depends on our maintaining good relationships with these third parties. We own 50% of IMTT and may acquire less than majority ownership in other investments in the future. Our ability to influence the management of jointly controlled investments, and the ability of these investments to continue operating without disruption, depends on our maintaining a good working relationship with our co-investors and having similar investment and performance objectives for these investments. To the extent that we are unable to agree with co-investors regarding the business and operations of the relevant investment, the performance of investment and level of dividends to us are likely to suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our results and our ability to pay distributions on our shares. Furthermore, we may from time to time own non-controlling interests in investments. Management and controlling shareholders of these investments may develop different objectives than we have and may not make distributions to us at levels that we had anticipated. Our inability to exercise significant influence over the operations, strategies and policies of non-controlled investments means that decisions could be made that could adversely affect our results and our ability to generate cash and pay distributions on our shares. Our business is dependent on our relationships, on a contractual and regulatory level, with government entities that may have significant leverage over us. Government entities may be influenced by political considerations to take actions adverse to us. Our business generally is, and will continue to be, subject to substantial regulation by governmental agencies. In addition, our business relies on obtaining and maintaining government permits, licenses, concessions, leases or contracts. Government entities, due to the wide-ranging scope of their authority, have significant leverage over us in their contractual and regulatory relationships with us that they may exercise in a manner that causes us delays in the operation of our business or pursuit of our strategy, or increased administrative expense. Furthermore, government permits, licenses, concessions, leases and contracts are generally very complex, which may result in periods of non-compliance, or disputes over interpretation or enforceability. If we fail to comply with these regulations or contractual obligations, we could be subject to monetary penalties or we may lose our rights to operate the affected business, or both. Where our ability to operate an infrastructure business is subject to a concession or lease from the government, the concession or lease may restrict our ability to operate the business in a way that maximizes cash flows and profitability. Further, our ability to grow our current and future businesses will often require consent of numerous government regulators. Increased regulation restricting the ownership or management of U.S. assets, particularly infrastructure assets, by non-U.S. persons, given the non-U.S. ultimate ownership of our Manager, may limit our ability to pursue acquisitions. Any such regulation may also limit our Manager’s ability to continue to manage our operations, which could cause disruption to our business and a decline in our performance. In addition, any required government consents may be costly to seek and we may not be able to obtain them. Failure to obtain any required consents could limit our ability to achieve our growth strategy. Our contracts with government entities may also contain clauses more favorable to the government counterparty than a typical commercial contract. For instance, a lease, concession or general service contract may enable the government to terminate the agreement without requiring them to pay adequate compensation. In addition, government counterparties also may have the discretion to change or increase regulation of our operations, or implement laws or regulations affecting our operations, separate from any contractual rights they may have. Governments have considerable discretion in implementing regulations that could impact these businesses. Because our businesses provide basic, everyday services, and face limited competition, governments may be influenced by political considerations to take actions that may hinder the efficient and profitable operation of our businesses and investments. Governmental agencies may determine the prices we charge and may be able to restrict our ability to operate our business to maximize profitability. Where our businesses or investments are sole or predominant service providers in their respective service areas and provide services that are essential to the community, they are likely to be subject to rate regulation by governmental agencies that will determine the prices they may charge. We may also face fees or other charges imposed by government agencies that increase our costs and over which we have no control. We may be subject to increases in fees or unfavorable price determinations that may be final with no right of appeal or that, despite a right of appeal, could result in our profits being negatively affected. In addition, we may have very little negotiating 35 leverage in establishing contracts with government entities, which may decrease the prices that we otherwise might be able to charge or the terms upon which we provide products or services. Businesses and investments we acquire in the future may also be subject to rate regulation or similar negotiating limitations. A significant and sustained increase in the price of oil could have a negative impact on the revenue of a number of our businesses. A significant and sustained increase in the price of oil could have a negative impact on the profitability of a number of our business. Higher prices for jet fuel could result in less use of aircraft by general aviation customers, which would have a negative impact on the profitability of our airport services business. Higher prices for jet fuel will increase the cost of traveling by commercial aviation, which could result in lower enplanements at the airports where our airport parking business operates and therefore less patronage of our parking facilities and lower revenue. Higher fuel prices would increase the cost of power to our district energy business which it may not be able to fully pass on to customers pursuant to the terms of our contracts with them. Our businesses are subject to environmental risks that may impact our future profitability. Our businesses (including businesses in which we invest) are subject to numerous statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection. Our airport services and airport parking businesses are subject to environmental protection requirements relating to the storage, transport, pumping and transfer of fuel, and our district energy business is subject to requirements relating mainly to its handling of significant amounts of hazardous materials. TGC is subject to risks and hazards associated with the refining, handling, storage and transportation of combustible products. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury, loss of life, damage or destruction of property and equipment, and environmental damage. Any losses we face could be greater than insurance levels maintained by our businesses, which could have an adverse effect on their and our financial results. In addition, disruptions to physical assets could reduce our ability to serve customers and adversely affect sales and cash flows. IMTT’s operations in particular are subject to complex, stringent and expensive environmental regulation. Although we believe that our businesses comply in all material respects with environmental, health and safety regulations, failure to comply in the future or other claims may give rise to interruptions in operations and civil or criminal penalties and liabilities that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Further, these rules and regulations are subject to change and compliance with such changes could result in a restriction of the activities of our businesses, significant capital expenditures and/or increased ongoing operating costs. A number of the properties owned by IMTT have been subject to environmental contamination in the past and require remediation for which IMTT is liable. These remediation obligations exist principally at IMTT’s Bayonne and Lemont facilities and could cost more than anticipated or could be incurred earlier than anticipated or both. In addition, IMTT may discover additional environmental contamination at its Bayonne, Lemont or other facilities that may require remediation at significant cost to IMTT. Further, the past contamination of the properties owned by IMTT could also result in personal injury or property damage or similar claims by third parties. We may also be required to address other prior or future environmental contamination, including soil and groundwater contamination that results from the spillage of fuel, hazardous materials or other pollutants. Under various federal, state, local and foreign environmental statutes, rules and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for noncompliance with applicable environmental and health and safety requirements and for the costs of investigation, monitoring, removal or remediation of hazardous materials. These laws often impose liability, whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous materials. The presence of these hazardous materials on a property could also result in personal injury or property damage or similar claims by private parties that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating income. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of those materials at the disposal or treatment facility, whether or not that facility is or ever was owned or operated by that person. 36 We may face a greater exposure to terrorism than other companies because of the nature of our businesses and investments. We believe that infrastructure businesses face a greater risk of terrorist attack than other businesses, particularly those businesses that have operations within the immediate vicinity of metropolitan and suburban areas. Specifically, because of the combustible nature of TGC’s products and consumer reliance on these products for basic services, TGC’s SNG plant, transmission pipelines, barges and storage facilities may be at greater risk for terrorism attacks than other businesses, which could affect TGC’s operations significantly. Any terrorist attacks that occur at or near our business locations would likely cause significant harm to our employees and assets. As a result of the terrorist attacks in New York on September 11, 2001, insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events. A terrorist attack that makes use of our property, or property under our control, may result in liability far in excess of available insurance coverage. In addition, any further terrorist attack, regardless of location, could cause a disruption to our business and a decline in earnings. Furthermore, it is likely to result in an increase in insurance premiums and a reduction in coverage, which could cause our profitability to suffer. We are dependent on certain key personnel, and the loss of key personnel, or the inability to retain or replace qualified employees, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate our businesses on a stand-alone basis, relying on existing management teams for day-to-day operations. Consequently, our operational success, as well as the success of our internal growth strategy, will be dependent on the continued efforts of the management teams of our businesses, who have extensive experience in the day-to-day operations of these businesses. Furthermore, we will likely be dependent on the operating management teams of businesses that we may acquire in the future. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to retain or replace qualified employees, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our income may be affected adversely if additional compliance costs are required as a result of new safety, health or environmental regulation. Our businesses and investments are subject to federal, state and local safety, health and environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations affect all aspects of their operations and are frequently modified. There is a risk that any one of our businesses or investments may not be able to comply with some aspect of these laws and regulations, resulting in fines or penalties. Additionally, if new laws and regulations are adopted or if interpretations of existing laws and regulations change, we could be required to increase capital spending and incur increased operating expenses in order to comply. Because the regulatory environment frequently changes, we cannot predict when or how we may be affected by such changes. Any adverse development in the general aviation industry that results in less air traffic at airports we service would have a material adverse impact on our airport services business. A large part of the revenue at our airport services business is generated from fuel sales and other services provided to general aviation customers. Air travel and air traffic volume of general aviation customers can be affected by airport-specific occurrences as well as events that have nationwide and industry-wide implications. The events of September 11, 2001 had a significant adverse impact on the aviation industry, particularly in terms of traffic volume due to forced closures. Immediately following September 11, 2001, thousands of general aviation aircraft were grounded for weeks due to the FAA’s “no-fly zone” restrictions imposed on the operation of aircraft. Airport specific circumstances include situations in which our major customers relocate their home base or preferred fueling stop to alternative locations. Additionally, the general economic conditions of the area where the airport is located will impact the ability of our FBOs to attract general aviation customers or generate fuel sales, or both. Significant increases in fuel prices may also decrease the demand for our services, including refueling services, or result in lower fuel sales margins, or both, leading to lower operating income. Changes in the general aviation market as a whole may adversely affect our airport services business. General aviation travel is more expensive than alternative modes of travel. Consequently, during periods of economic downturn, FBO customers may choose to travel by less expensive means, which could impact the earnings of our airport services business. In addition, changes to regulations governing the tax treatment relating to general aviation travel, either for businesses or individuals may cause a reduction in general aviation travel. Increased environmental 37 regulation restricting or increasing the cost of general aviation activities could also cause revenue in our airport services business to decline. Travel by commercial airlines may also become more attractive for general aviation travelers if service levels improve. Under these circumstances, our FBOs may lose customers to the commercial air travel market, which may decrease our earnings. Our airport services business is subject to a variety of competitive pressures, and the actions of competitors may have a material adverse effect on the revenue of our airport services business. FBO operators at a particular airport compete based on a number of factors, including location of the facility relative to runways and street access, service, value added features, reliability and price. Many of our FBOs compete with one or more FBOs at their respective airports, and, to a lesser extent, with FBOs at nearby airports. We cannot predict the actions of competitors who may seek to increase market share. Some present and potential competitors have or may obtain greater financial and marketing resources than we do, which may negatively impact our ability to compete at each airport. Our FBOs (including the heliport) do not have the right to be the sole provider of FBO services at any of our FBO locations. The authority responsible for each airport has the ability to grant other FBO leases at the airport and new competitors could be established at those FBO locations. The addition of new competitors is particularly likely if we are seen to be earning significant profits from these FBO operations. Any such actions, if successful, may reduce, or impair our ability to increase, the revenue of the FBO business. The termination for cause or convenience of one or more of the FBO leases would damage our airport services business significantly. Our airport services revenue is derived from long-term FBO leases at airports and one heliport. If we default on the terms and conditions of our leases, the relevant authority may terminate the lease without compensation, and we would then lose the income from that location, and would be in default under the loan agreements of our airport services business and be obliged to repay our lenders a portion or all of our outstanding loan amount. Our leases at Chicago Midway, Philadelphia, North East Philadelphia, New Orleans International and Orange County, and the Metroport 34th Street Heliport in New York City allow the relevant authority to terminate the lease at their convenience. If the relevant authority were to terminate any of those leases, we would then lose the income from that location and be obliged to repay our lenders a portion or all of the then outstanding loan amount. TGC relies on its synthetic natural gas, or SNG, plant, including its transmission pipeline, for a significant portion of its sales. Disruptions at that facility could adversely affect TGC’s ability to serve customers. Disruptions at the SNG plant resulting from mechanical or operational problems could affect TGC’s ability to produce SNG. Most of the regulated sales on Oahu are of SNG and are produced at this plant. Disruptions to the primary and redundant production systems would have a significant adverse effect on sales and cash flows. TGC depends heavily on the two Oahu oil refineries for liquefied petroleum gas and the primary feedstock for its SNG plant. Disruptions at either of those refineries may adversely affect TGC’s operations. TGC’s business comprises the manufacture of SNG and the distribution of SNG and liquefied petroleum gas, or LPG. Any feedstock, SNG or LPG supply disruptions that limit its ability to manufacture and deliver gas for customers would adversely affect its ability to carry out its operating activities. These could include: an inability to renew feedstock purchase arrangements, including our current SNG feedstock agreement which is due for renewal in 2007; extended unavailability of one or both of the Oahu refineries; a disruption to crude oil supplies or feedstocks to Hawaii; or an inability to purchase LPG from foreign sources. Specifically, TGC is limited in its ability to store both foreign-sourced LPG and domestic LPG at the same location at the same time and, therefore, any disruption in supply may cause a short-term depletion of LPG. All supply disruptions, if occurring for an extended period, could materially adversely impact TGC’s sales and cash flows. 38 TGC’s most significant costs are locally-sourced LPG, LPG imports and feedstock for the SNG plant, the costs of which are directly related to petroleum prices. To the extent that these costs cannot be passed on to customers, TGC’s sales and cash flows will be adversely affected. The profitability of TGC is based on the margin of sales prices over costs. Since LPG and feedstock for the SNG plant are commodities, changes in the market for these products can have a significant impact on costs. In addition, increased reliance on higher-priced foreign sources of LPG, whether due to disruptions or shortages in local sources or otherwise, could also have a significant impact on costs. TGC has no control over these costs, and, to the extent that these costs cannot be passed on to customers, TGC’s financial condition and the results of operations would be adversely affected. Higher prices could result in reduced customer demand or could result in customer conversion to alternative energy sources. This would reduce sales volume and adversely affect profits. TGC’s operations on the islands of Hawaii, Maui and Kauai rely on LPG that is transported to those islands by Jones Act qualified barges from Oahu and from non-Jones Act vessels from foreign ports. Disruptions to those vessels could adversely affect TGC’s results of operations. TGC has time charter agreements allowing the use of two barges that have the capability of transporting 424,000 gallons and 500,000 gallons of LPG, respectively. The Jones Act requires that vessels carrying cargo between two U.S. ports meet certain requirements. The barges used by TGC are the only two Jones Act qualified barges capable of carrying large volumes of LPG that are available in the Hawaiian Islands. They are near the end of their useful economic lives, and the barge owner intends to replace one or both of them in the near future. To the extent that the barge owner is unable to replace these barges, or alternatively, these barges are unable to transport LPG from Oahu and TGC is not able to secure foreign-source LPG or obtain an exemption to the Jones Act, the storage capacity on those islands could be depleted and sales and cash flows could be adversely affected. The recovery of amounts expended for capital projects and operating expenses in the regulated operations is subject to approval by the Hawaii Public Utilities Commission, or HPUC, which exposes TGC to the risk of incurring costs that may not be recoverable from regulated customers. In the past, TGC has requested rate increases from the HPUC approximately every five years as its operating costs increased and as capital investments were committed. When the HPUC approved our purchase of TGC, it stipulated that no rate increase may be implemented until 2009. Should TGC seek a rate increase, there is a risk that TGC will not be granted such increase or that it will be permitted only part of the increase, which may have a material adverse effect on TGC’s financial condition and results of operations. The non-regulated operations of TGC are subject to a variety of competitive pressures and the actions of competitors, particularly from other energy sources, could have a materially adverse effect on operating results. In Hawaii, gas is largely used by commercial and residential customers for water heating and cooking. TGC also has wholesale customers that resell product to other end-users. Gas end-use applications may be substituted by other fuel sources such as electricity, diesel, solar and wind. Customers could, for a number of reasons, including increased gas prices, lower costs of alternative energy or convenience, meet their energy needs through alternative sources. This could have an adverse effect on TGC’s sales, revenue and cash flows. Approximately two-thirds of TGC’s employees are members of a labor union. A work interruption may adversely affect TGC’s business. Approximately two-thirds of TGC’s employees are covered under a collective bargaining agreement that expires on April 30, 2008. Labor disruptions related to that contract or to other disputes could affect the SNG plant, distributions systems and customer services. We are unable to predict how work stoppages would affect the business. TGC’s operating results are affected by Hawaii’s economy. The primary driver of Hawaii’s economy is tourism. A significant portion of TGC’s sales is generated from businesses that rely on tourism as their primary source of revenue. These businesses include hotels and resorts, restaurants and laundries, comprising approximately 40% of sales. Should tourism decline significantly, TGC’s commercial sales could be affected adversely. 39 In addition, a reduction in new housing starts and commercial development would limit growth opportunities for TGC’s business. Because of its geographic location, Hawaii, and in turn TGC, is subject to earthquakes and certain weather risks that could materially disrupt operations. Hawaii is subject to earthquakes and certain weather risks, such as hurricanes, floods, heavy and sustained rains and tidal waves. Because TGC’s SNG plant, SNG transmission line and several storage facilities are close to the ocean, weather-related disruptions are possible. In addition, earthquakes may cause disruptions. These events could damage TGC’s assets or could result in wide-spread damage to TGC’s customers, thereby reducing sales volumes and, to the extent such damages are not covered by insurance, TGC’s revenue and cash flows. Occupancy of our airport parking business’ facilities is dependent on the level of passenger traffic at the airports at which we operate and reductions in passenger traffic could negatively impact our results of operations. Our airport parking business’ parking facilities are dependent upon parking traffic primarily generated by commercial airline passengers and are therefore susceptible to competition from other airports and to disruptions in passenger traffic at the airports at which we operate. For example, the events of September 11, 2001 had a significant impact on the aviation industry and, as a result, negatively impacted occupancy levels at parking facilities. In the first few days following September 11, 2001, revenue from our parking facilities was negligible and did not fully recover until some months after the event. Other events such as wars, outbreaks of disease, such as SARS, and terrorist activities in the United States or overseas may reduce airport traffic and therefore occupancy rates. In addition, traffic at an airport at which we have facilities may be reduced if airlines reduce the number of flights at that airport. Our airport parking business is exposed to competition from both on-airport and off-airport parking, which could slow our growth or harm our business. At each of the locations at which our airport parking business operates, it competes with both on-airport parking facilities, many of which are located closer to passenger terminals, and other off-airport parking facilities. If an airport expands its parking facilities or if new off-airport parking facilities are opened or existing facilities expanded, customers may be drawn away from our sites or we may have to reduce our parking rates, or both. Parking rates charged by us at each of our locations are set with reference to a number of factors, including prices charged by competitors and quality of service by on-airport and off-airport competitors, the location and quality of the facility and the level of service provided. Additional sources of competition to our parking operations may come from new or improved transportation to the airports where our parking facilities are located. Improved rail, bus or other services may encourage our customers not to drive to the airport and therefore negatively impact revenue. Changes in regulation by airport authorities or other governmental bodies governing the transportation of customers to and from the airports at which our airport parking business operates may negatively affect our operating results. Our airport parking business’ shuttle operations transport customers between the airport terminals and its parking facilities and are regulated by, and are subject to, the rules and policies of the relevant local airport authority, which may be changed at their discretion. Some airport authorities levy fees on off-airport parking operators for the right to transport customers to the terminals. There is a risk that airport authorities may deny or restrict our access to terminals, impede our ability to manage our shuttle operations efficiently, impose new fees or increase the fees currently levied. Further, the FAA and the Transportation Security Administration, or TSA, regulate the operations of all the airports at which our airport parking business has locations. The TSA has the authority to restrict access to airports as well as to impose parking and other restrictions around the airports. The TSA could impose more stringent restrictions in the future that would inhibit the ability of customers to use our parking facilities. 40 Pursuant to the terms of a use agreement with the City of Chicago, the City of Chicago has rights that, if exercised, could have a significant negative impact on our district energy business. In order to operate our district cooling system in downtown Chicago, we have obtained the right to use certain public ways of the City of Chicago under a use agreement, which we refer to as the Use Agreement. Under the terms of the Use Agreement, the City of Chicago retains the right to use the public ways for a public purpose and has the right in the interest of public safety or convenience to cause us to remove, modify, replace or relocate our facilities at our own expense. If the City of Chicago exercises these rights, we could incur significant costs and our ability to provide service to our customers could be disrupted, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Use Agreement is non-exclusive, and the City of Chicago is entitled to enter into use agreements with our potential competitors. The Use Agreement expires on December 31, 2020 and may be terminated by the City of Chicago for any uncured material breach of its terms and conditions. The City of Chicago also may require us to pay liquidated damages of $6,000 a day if we fail to remove, modify, replace or relocate our facilities when required to do so, if we install any facilities that are not properly authorized under the Use Agreement or if our district cooling system does not conform to the City of Chicago’s standards. Each of these non-compliance penalties could result in substantial financial loss or effectively shut down our district cooling system in downtown Chicago. Any proposed renewal, extension or modification of the Use Agreement requires approval by the City Council of Chicago. Extensions and modifications subject to the City of Chicago’s approval include those to enable the expansion of chilling capacity and the connection of new customers to the district cooling system. The City of Chicago’s approval is contingent upon the timely filing of an Economic Disclosure Statement, or EDS, by us and certain of the beneficial owners of our stock. If any of these investors fails to file a completed EDS form within 30 days of the City of Chicago’s request or files an incomplete or inaccurate EDS, the City of Chicago has the right to refuse to provide the necessary approval for any extension or modification of the Use Agreement or to rescind the Use Agreement altogether. If the City of Chicago declines to approve extensions or modifications to the Use Agreement, we may not be able to increase the capacity of our district cooling system and pursue our growth strategy for our district energy business. Furthermore, if the City of Chicago rescinds or voids the Use Agreement, our district cooling system in downtown Chicago would be effectively shut down and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected as a result. Certain of our investors may be required to comply with certain disclosure requirements of the City of Chicago and non-compliance may result in the City of Chicago’s rescission or voidance of the Use Agreement and any other arrangements our district energy business may have with the City of Chicago at the time of the non-compliance. In order to secure any amendment to the Use Agreement with the City of Chicago to pursue expansion plans or otherwise, or to enter into other contracts with the City of Chicago, the City of Chicago may require any person who owns or acquires 7.5% or more of our shares to make a number of representations to the City of Chicago by filing a completed EDS. Our LLC agreement and our trust agreement require that in the event that we need to obtain approval from the City of Chicago in the future for any specific matter, including to expand the district cooling system or to amend the Use Agreement, we and each of our then 10% investors would need to submit an EDS to the City of Chicago within 30 days of the City of Chicago’s request. In addition, our LLC agreement and our trust agreement require each 10% investor to provide any supplemental information needed to update any EDS filed with the City of Chicago as required by the City of Chicago and as requested by us from time to time. However, in 2005, the City of Chicago passed an ordinance lowering the ownership percentage for which an EDS is required from 10% to 7.5%. Although based on our discussions with the City of Chicago, we believe that the City of Chicago will allow us to satisfy this requirement through providing publicly available information, we cannot assure that this will remain the case in the future. As a result, we may at some point need to extend the requirements in our LLC agreement and trust agreement to 7.5% owners. Any EDS filed by an investor may become publicly available. By completing and signing an EDS, an investor will have waived and released any possible rights or claims which it may have against the City of Chicago in connection with the public release of information contained in the EDS and also will have authorized the City of Chicago to verify the accuracy of information submitted in the EDS. The requirements and consequences of filing 41 an EDS with the City of Chicago will make compliance with the EDS requirements difficult for our investors. If an investor fails to provide us and the City of Chicago with the information required by an EDS, our LLC and trust agreements provide us with the right to seek specific performance by such investor. However, we currently do not have this right with respect to investors that own less than ten percent of our shares. In addition, any action for specific performance we bring may not be successful in securing timely compliance of every investor with the EDS requirements. If any investor fails to comply with the EDS requirements on time or the City of Chicago determines that any information provided in any EDS is false, incomplete or inaccurate, the City of Chicago may rescind or void the Use Agreement or any other arrangements Thermal Chicago has with the City of Chicago, and pursue any other remedies available to them. If the City of Chicago rescinds or voids the Use Agreement, our district cooling system in downtown Chicago would be effectively shut down and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected as a result. The deregulation of electricity markets in Illinois and future rate case rulings may result in higher and more volatile electricity costs, which our district energy business may not be able to fully pass through to its customers. The Illinois electricity market was deregulated as scheduled in January 2007. Our district energy business has entered into a contract with a retail energy supplier to provide for the supply of the majority of our 2007 electricity at a fixed price and we estimate our 2007 electricity costs will increase by 15-20% over 2006 based on our energy contracts as well as the ICC’s Final Order on ComEd’s rate case. We will need to enter into energy supply contracts for 2008 and subsequent years which may result in further increases in our electricity costs. In addition, the Final Order is subject to judicial review as well as rehearing by the ICC and ComEd will likely file future rate cases, both of which may cause the distribution component of our electricity costs to increase. We believe that the terms of our customer contracts permit us to fully pass through our electricity cost increases or decreases. However, we have only recently implemented these contract pricing adjustments and cannot fully assess customer reaction at this time. Adverse customer response, including non-renewal of contracts, could have an adverse effect on our operating income. If certain events within or beyond the control of our district energy business occur, our district energy business may be unable to perform its contractual obligations to provide chilling and heating services to its customers. If, as a result, its customers elect to terminate their contracts, our district energy business may suffer loss of revenue. In addition, our district energy business may be required to make payments to such customers for damages. In the event of a shutdown of one or more of our district energy business’ plants due to operational breakdown, strikes, the inability to retain or replace key technical personnel or events outside its control, such as an electricity blackout, or unprecedented weather conditions in Chicago, our district energy business may be unable to continue to provide chilling and heating services to all of its customers. As a result, our district energy business may be in breach of the terms of some or all of its customer contracts. In the event that such customers elect to terminate their contracts with our district energy business as a consequence of their loss of service, its revenue may be materially adversely affected. In addition, under a number of contracts, our district energy business may be required to pay damages to a customer in the event that a cessation of service results in loss to that customer. Northwind Aladdin currently derives most of its cash flows from a contract with a single customer, the Aladdin Resort and Casino, which recently emerged from bankruptcy. If this customer were to enter into bankruptcy again, our contract may be amended or terminated and we may receive no compensation, which could result in the loss of our investment in Northwind Aladdin. Northwind Aladdin derives most of its cash flows from a contract with the Aladdin resort and casino in Las Vegas to supply cold and hot water and back-up electricity. The Aladdin resort and casino emerged from bankruptcy immediately prior to MDE’s acquisition of Northwind Aladdin in September 2004, and, during the course of those proceedings, the contract with Northwind Aladdin was amended to reduce the payment obligations of the Aladdin resort and casino. If the Aladdin resort and casino were to enter into bankruptcy again and a cheaper source of the services that Northwind Aladdin provides can be found, our contract may be terminated or amended. This could result in a total loss or significant reduction in our income from Northwind Aladdin, for which we may receive no compensation. 42 IMTT’s business is dependent on the demand for bulk liquid storage capacity in the locations where it operates. Demand for IMTT’s bulk liquid storage is largely a function of U.S. domestic demand for chemical, petroleum and vegetable and animal oil products and, less significantly, the extent to which such products are imported into the United States rather than produced domestically. U.S. domestic demand for chemical, petroleum and V&A products is influenced by a number of factors, including economic conditions, growth in the U.S. economy and the pricing of chemical, petroleum and V&A products and their substitutes. Import volumes of these products to the United States are influenced by the cost of producing chemical, petroleum and V&A products domestically vis-à-vis overseas and the cost of transporting the products from overseas. In addition, changes in government regulations that affect imports of bulk chemical, petroleum and V&A products, including the imposition of surcharges or taxes on imported products, could adversely affect import volumes. A reduction in demand for bulk liquid storage, particularly in the New York Harbor or the lower Mississippi River, as a consequence of lower U.S. domestic demand for, or imports of, chemical, petroleum or V&A products, could lead to a decline in storage rates and tankage volumes rented by IMTT and adversely affect IMTT’s revenue and profitability. IMTT’s business could be adversely affected by a substantial increase in bulk liquid storage capacity in the locations where it operates. An increase in available bulk liquid storage capacity in excess of growth in demand for such storage in the key locations in which IMTT operates, such as New York Harbor and the lower Mississippi River, could result in overcapacity and a decline in storage rates and tankage volumes rented by IMTT and could adversely affect IMTT’s revenue and profitability. IMTT’s current debt facilities will need to be refinanced on amended terms and increased in size during 2007 to provide the funding necessary for IMTT to fully pursue its expansion plans. The inability to refinance this debt on acceptable terms and to borrow additional amounts would have a material adverse effect on the business. IMTT’s current debt facilities will need to be refinanced on amended terms and increased in size during 2007 to provide the funding necessary for IMTT to fully pursue its expansion plans. We cannot assure you that IMTT will be able to refinance its debt facilities on acceptable terms, including the loosening of certain restrictive covenants, or that IMTT will be able to expand the size of its debt facilities by an amount sufficient to cover the funding requirements of its expansion plans. If IMTT is unable to obtain sufficient additional financing, it will be unable to fully pursue its current expansion plans, its growth prospects and results of operations would be adversely affected and its distributions to us would decline from current levels. This would adversely affect our ability to make distributions to shareholders. Additionally, even if available, replacement debt facilities may only be available at substantially higher interest rates or margins or with substantially more restrictive covenants. Either event may limit the operational flexibility of IMTT and its ability to upstream dividends and distributions to us. If interest rates or margins increase, IMTT will pay higher rates of interest on any debt that it raises to refinance existing debt, thereby reducing its profitability and having an adverse impact on its ability to pay dividends to us and our ability to make distributions to shareholders. IMTT’s business involves hazardous activities, is partly located in a region with a history of significant adverse weather events and is potentially a target for terrorist attacks. We cannot assure you that IMTT is, or will be in the future, adequately insured against all such risks. The transportation, handling and storage of petroleum, chemical and V&A products are subject to the risk of spills, leakage, contamination, fires and explosions. Any of these events may result in loss of revenue, loss of reputation or goodwill, fines, penalties and other liabilities. In certain circumstances, such events could also require IMTT to halt or significantly alter operations at all or part of the facility at which the event occurred. Consistent with industry practice, IMTT carries insurance to protect against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of the business; however, the limits of IMTT’s coverage mean IMTT cannot insure against all risks. In addition, because IMTT’s facilities are not insured against loss from terrorism, a terrorist attack that significantly damages one or more of IMTT’s major facilities would have a negative impact on IMTT’s future cash flow and profitability. Further, losses sustained by insurers during future hurricanes in the U.S. gulf region may result in lower insurance coverage and increased insurance premiums for IMTT’s properties in Louisiana. 43 Hurricane Katrina resulted in labor and materials shortages in the regions affected. This may have a negative impact on the cost and construction timeline of IMTT’s new storage facility in Louisiana, which could result in a loss of customer contracts and reduced revenue and profitability. In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, construction costs in the region affected by the hurricane have increased and labor shortages have been experienced. This could have a significant negative impact on the cost and construction schedule of IMTT’s new storage facility at Geismar in Louisiana. IMTT may not be fully compensated by customers for any such increase in construction costs. In addition, substantial construction delays could result in a loss of customer contracts with no compensation or inadequate compensation, which would have a material adverse effect on IMTT’s future cash flows and profitability. Risks Related to Ownership of Trust Stock Our Manager’s affiliation with Macquarie Bank Limited and the Macquarie Group may result in conflicts of interest. Our Manager is an affiliate of Macquarie Bank Limited and a member of the Macquarie Group. From time to time, we have entered into, and in the future we may enter into, transactions and relationships involving Macquarie Bank Limited, its affiliates, or other members of the Macquarie Group. Such transactions have included and may include, among other things, the acquisition of businesses and investments from Macquarie Group members, the entry into debt facilities and derivative instruments with Macquarie Bank Limited serving as lender or counterparty, and financial advisory services provided to us by Macquarie Securities (USA) Inc. and other affiliates of Macquarie Bank Limited. Although our audit committee, all of the members of which are independent directors, is required to approve of any related party transactions, including those involving Macquarie Bank Limited, its affiliates, or members of the Macquarie Group, the relationship of our Manager to Macquarie Bank Limited and the Macquarie Group may result in conflicts of interest. In the event of the underperformance of our Manager, we may be unable to remove our Manager, which could limit our ability to improve our performance and could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Under the terms of the management services agreement, our Manager must significantly underperform in order for the management services agreement to be terminated. The company’s board of directors cannot remove our Manager unless: · our shares underperform a weighted average of two benchmark indices by more than 30% in relative terms and more than 2.5% in absolute terms in 16 out of 20 consecutive quarters prior to and including the most recent full quarter, and the holders of a minimum of 66.67% of the outstanding trust stock (excluding any shares of trust stock owned by our Manager or any affiliate of the Manager) vote to remove our Manager; · our Manager materially breaches the terms of the management services agreement and such breach continues unremedied for 60 days after notice; · our Manager acts with gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of its duties in carrying out its obligations under the management services agreement, or engages in fraudulent or dishonest acts; or · our Manager experiences certain bankruptcy events. Our Manager’s performance is measured by the market performance of our shares relative to a weighted average of two benchmark indices, a U.S. utilities index and a European utilities index, weighted in proportion to our U.S. and non-U.S. equity investments. As a result, even if the absolute market performance of our shares does not meet expectations, the company’s board of directors cannot remove our Manager unless the market performance of our shares also significantly underperforms the weighted average of the benchmark indices. If we were unable to remove our Manager in circumstances where the absolute market performance of our shares does not meet expectations, the market price of our shares could be negatively affected. 44 Our Manager can resign on 90 days’ notice and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations which could adversely affect our financial results and negatively impact the market price of our shares. Our Manager has the right, under the management services agreement, to resign at any time on 90 days’ notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If our Manager resigns, we may not be able to find a new external manager or hire internal management with similar expertise within 90 days to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial results could be adversely affected, perhaps materially, and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management, acquisition activities and supervision of our businesses and investments are likely to suffer if we were unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by our Manager and its affiliates. Furthermore, if our Manager resigns, the trust, the company and its subsidiaries will be required to cease using the Macquarie brand entirely, including changing their names to remove any reference to “Macquarie.” This may cause the value of the company and the market price of our shares to decline. Certain provisions of the management services agreement, the operating agreement of the company and the trust agreement make it difficult for third parties to acquire control of the trust and the company and could deprive you of the opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for your shares. In addition to the limited circumstances in which our Manager can be terminated under the terms of the management services agreement, the management services agreement provides that in circumstances where the trust stock ceases to be listed on a recognized U.S. exchange or on the Nasdaq National Market as a result of the acquisition of trust stock by third parties in an amount that results in the trust stock ceasing to meet the distribution and trading criteria on such exchange or market, the Manager has the option to either propose an alternate fee structure and remain our Manager or resign, terminate the management services agreement upon 30 days’ written notice and be paid a substantial termination fee. The termination fee payable on the Manager’s exercise of its right to resign as our Manager subsequent to a delisting of our shares could delay or prevent a change in control that may favor our shareholders. Furthermore, in the event of such a delisting, any proceeds from the sale, lease or exchange of a significant amount of assets must be reinvested in new assets of our company. We would also be prohibited from incurring any new indebtedness or engaging in any transactions with the shareholders of the company or its affiliates without the prior written approval of the Manager. These provisions could deprive the shareholders of the trust of opportunities to realize a premium on the shares of trust stock owned by them. The operating agreement of the company, which we refer to as the LLC agreement, and the trust agreement contain a number of provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third-party to acquire, or discouraging a third-party from acquiring, control of the trust and the company. These provisions include: · restrictions on the company’s ability to enter into certain transactions with our major shareholders, with the exception of our Manager, modeled on the limitation contained in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law; · allowing only the company’s board of directors to fill vacancies, including newly created directorships and requiring that directors may be removed only for cause and by a shareholder vote of 66 2 /3%; · requiring that only the company’s chairman or board of directors may call a special meeting of our shareholders; · prohibiting shareholders from taking any action by written consent; · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to the company’s board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by our shareholders at a shareholders meeting; · having a substantial number of additional shares of authorized but unissued trust stock; · providing the company’s board of directors with broad authority to amend the LLC agreement and the trust agreement; and · requiring that any person who is the beneficial owner of ten percent or more of our shares make a number of representations to the City of Chicago in its standard form of Economic Disclosure Statement, or EDS, the current form of which is included in our LLC agreement, which is incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this report. 45 The market price and marketability of our shares may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors beyond our control, which may adversely affect our ability to raise capital through future equity financings. The market price of our shares may fluctuate significantly. Many factors that are beyond our control may significantly affect the market price and marketability of our shares and may adversely affect our ability to raise capital through equity financings. These factors include the following: · price and volume fluctuations in the stock markets generally; · significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of registered investment companies, business development companies or companies in our sectors, which may not be related to the operating performance of these companies; · changes in our earnings or variations in operating results; · any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; · changes in regulatory policies or tax law; · operating performance of companies comparable to us; and · loss of a major funding source. Risks Related to Taxation Shareholders and the trust could be adversely affected if the IRS were to successfully contend that the trust is not a grantor trust for federal income tax purposes. At the time of our initial public offering we determined that the trust would be classified as a grantor trust for U.S. federal income tax purposes and not as an association taxable as a corporation. Although the matter was not at that time free from doubt, we based this determination on an opinion of Shearman & Sterling LLP provided at that time and under then current law and assuming full compliance with the terms of the trust agreement (and other relevant documents). As a result of this determination, we have stated that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, investors generally are treated as the beneficial owner of a pro rata portion of the interests in the company held by the trust. A recent pronouncement by the IRS questions the characterization of entities with structures like ours as grantor trusts and could change how we comply with our tax information reporting obligations. Depending on the resolution of these matters, we may be required to report allocable income, expense and credit items to the IRS and to shareholders on Schedule K-1, in addition to or instead of the letter we send to investors each year. A change in the characterization of the trust would not change shareholders’ distributive share of items of income, gain, loss and expense of the trust or the company, nor would it change the income tax liability of the trust or the company. Under the trust agreement and the LLC agreement, if we determine that the trust is, or is reasonably likely to be, required to issue Schedule K-1s to shareholders, we must exchange all shares of outstanding trust stock for an equal number of LLC interests. We would also intend to take all necessary steps to elect to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In that case, we would have the same tax reporting obligations of a corporation (rather than a partnership) and would not be required to issue Schedule K-1s to shareholders. We may not be able to make such an election without soliciting shareholder approval, which may not be obtained and, regardless, is likely to be a time-consuming and costly process. Should we be treated as a partnership for US federal income tax purposes and required to deliver a Schedule K-1 to shareholders for any extended length of time, it may negatively impact the liquidity of trading in our trust stock. Furthermore, if the trust is found not to constitute a grantor trust for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the IRS could assess significant penalties for failure to file a partnership return and deliver Schedule K-1s to shareholders in prior years. Although, we believe that we have met the appropriate standards that would enable us to successfully challenge any such penalties, there can be no assurance that such a challenge would be successful or that we would not incur significant costs in the process. In light of the recent uncertainty in this area, we may choose to report shareholders’ distributive share of items of income, gain, loss and expense to the IRS and to shareholders on Schedule K-1s for the 2006 and 2007 tax year. 46 Shareholders may be subject to taxation on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Shareholders may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation and, in some cases, state, local, and foreign income taxation on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Shareholders may not receive cash distributions equal to their share of our taxable income or even the tax liability that results from that income. In addition, if we invest in the stock of a controlled foreign corporation (or if one of the corporations in which we invest becomes a controlled foreign corporation, an event which we cannot control), we may recognize taxable income, which shareholders will be required to take into account in determining their taxable income, without a corresponding receipt of cash to distribute to them. If the company fails to satisfy the “qualifying income” exception, all of its income, including income derived from its non-U.S. assets, will be subject to an entity-level tax in the United States, which could result in a material reduction in our shareholders’ cash flow and after-tax return and thus could result in a substantial reduction in the value of the shares. A publicly traded partnership will not be characterized as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes so long as 90% or more of its gross income for each taxable year constitutes “qualifying income” within the meaning of Section 7704(d) of the Code. We refer to this exception as the qualifying income exception. The company has concluded that it is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This conclusion is based upon the fact that: (a) the company has not elected and will not elect to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes; and (b) for each taxable year, the company expects that more than 90% of its gross income is and will be income that constitutes qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704(d) of the Code. Qualifying income includes dividends, interest and capital gains from the sale or other disposition of stocks and bonds. If the company fails to satisfy the “qualifying income” exception described above, items of income and deduction would not pass through to shareholders and shareholders would be treated for U.S. federal (and certain state and local) income tax purposes as shareholders in a corporation. In such case, the company would be required to pay income tax at regular corporate rates on all of its income, including income derived from its non-U.S. assets. In addition, the company would likely be liable for state and local income and/or franchise taxes on all of such income. Distributions to shareholders would constitute ordinary dividend income taxable to such shareholders to the extent of the company’s earnings and profits, and the payment of these dividends would not be deductible by the company. Taxation of the company as a corporation could result in a material reduction in our shareholders’ cash flow and after-tax return and thus could result in a substantial reduction of the value of the shares. The current treatment of qualified dividend income and long-term capital gains under current U.S. federal income tax law may be adversely affected, changed or repealed in the future. Under current law, qualified dividend income and long-term capital gains are taxed to non-corporate investors at a maximum U.S. federal income tax rate of 15%. This tax treatment may be adversely affected, changed or repealed by future changes in tax laws at any time and is currently scheduled to expire for tax years beginning after December 31, 2008. 47 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 