ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors, among others, could cause USA Mobility’s actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. 10 The rate of subscriber and revenue erosion could exceed the Company’s ability to reduce its operating expenses in order to maintain positive operating cash flow. USA Mobility’s revenues are dependent on the number of subscribers that use its paging devices. There is intense competition for these subscribers from other paging service providers and alternate wireless communications providers such as mobile phone and mobile data service providers. The Company expects its number of subscribers and revenue to continue to decline into the foreseeable future. As this revenue erosion continues, maintaining positive cash flow is dependent on substantial reductions in operating expenses. Reductions in operating expenses require both the reduction of internal costs and negotiation of lower costs from outside vendors. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to reduce its operating expenses commensurate with the level of revenue erosion. The inability to reduce operating expenses would have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, including the Company’s continued ability to remain profitable, produce positive operating cash flow, pay cash distributions to stockholders and repurchase shares of its common stock. Service to the Company’s customers could be adversely impacted by network rationalization. The Company has an active program to consolidate its number of networks and related transmitter locations, which is referred to as network rationalization. Network rationalization is necessary to match the Company’s technical infrastructure to its smaller subscriber base and to reduce both site rent and telecommunications costs. The implementation of the network rationalization program could adversely impact service to the Company’s existing subscribers despite the Company’s efforts to minimize the impact on subscribers. This adverse impact could increase the rate of gross subscriber cancellations and/or the level of revenue erosion. Adverse changes in gross subscriber cancellations and/or revenue erosion could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, including the Company’s continued ability to remain profitable, produce positive operating cash flow, pay cash distributions to stockholders and repurchase shares of its common stock. If the Company is unable to retain key management personnel, it might not be able to find suitable replacements on a timely basis or at all, and the Company’s business could be disrupted. USA Mobility’s success is largely dependent upon the continued service of a relatively small group of key executive and management personnel. The Company believes that there is, and will continue to be, intense competition for qualified personnel in the telecommunications industry, and there is no assurance that the Company will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of its business. Turnover, particularly among senior management, can also create distractions as the Company searches for replacement personnel, which could result in significant recruiting, relocation, training and other costs, and can cause operational inefficiencies as replacement personnel become familiar with the Company’s business and operations. In addition, manpower in certain areas may be constrained, which could lead to disruptions over time. The loss or unavailability of one or more of the Company’s executive officers or the inability to attract or retain key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, including the Company’s continued ability to remain profitable, produce positive operating cash flow, pay cash distributions to stockholders and repurchase shares of its common stock. USA Mobility may be unable to find vendors able to supply it with paging equipment based on future demands. The Company purchases paging equipment from third party vendors. This equipment is sold or leased to customers in order to provide wireless messaging services. The reduction in industry demand for paging equipment has caused various suppliers to cease manufacturing this equipment. There can be no assurance that the Company can continue to find vendors to supply paging equipment, or that the vendors will supply equipment at costs that allow the Company to remain a competitive alternative in the wireless messaging industry. A lack of paging equipment could impact the Company’s ability to provide certain wireless messaging services and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, including the 11 Company’s continued ability to remain profitable, produce positive operating cash flow, pay cash distributions to stockholders and repurchase shares of its common stock. USA Mobility may be unable to realize the benefits associated with its deferred income tax assets. The Company has significant deferred income tax assets that are available to offset future taxable income and increase cash flows from operations. The use of these deferred income tax assets is dependent on the availability of taxable income in future periods. The availability of future taxable income is dependent on the Company’s ability to continue to reduce operating expenses and maintain profitability as both revenues and subscribers are expected to decline in the future. To the extent that anticipated reductions in operating expenses do not occur or sufficient revenues are not generated, the Company may not achieve sufficient taxable income to allow for use of its deferred income tax assets. The accounting for deferred income tax assets is based upon an estimate of future results, and the valuation allowance may be increased or decreased as conditions change or if the Company is unable to implement certain tax planning strategies. If the Company is unable to use these deferred income tax assets, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be materially affected and the Company’s after-tax net income could decrease. USA Mobility’s deferred income tax assets are based on tax positions that have not been fully validated by Federal and/or state tax authorities. One of the Company’s largest individual class of assets is its deferred income tax assets. These deferred income tax assets are based on past tax positions taken by the Company and its predecessors and subsidiaries in their Federal and state income tax returns. These tax positions were based on the applicable laws and regulations existing at the time, and, in some cases, these laws and regulations were subject to varying interpretations. While the Company believes that its tax positions are supportable, reasonable and appropriate, the Company’s interpretations have not been fully validated by either the Internal Revenue Service or applicable state agencies. The Company is currently subject to two Federal income tax audits and could be subject to state income tax audits. The final results of these audits could result in adjustments to the Company’s previously taken tax positions and the underlying deferred income tax assets. Any such adjustments could result in a material change to the carrying value of the deferred income tax assets. Material downward adjustments to the deferred income tax assets could result in future taxable income from operations. Future taxable income could result in cash payments for income taxes and in a material reduction in cash from operating activities. Significant cash payments for income taxes could impact the Company’s financial condition, ability to pay cash distributions to stockholders and repurchase shares of its common stock. USA Mobility is regulated by the FCC and, to a lesser extent, state and local regulating governmental bodies. Changes in regulation could result in increased costs to the Company. USA Mobility is subject to regulation by the FCC and, to a lesser extent, by state and local authorities. Changes in regulatory policy could increase the fees the Company must pay to the government or to third parties and could subject the Company to more stringent requirements that could cause the Company to incur additional capital and/or operating costs. For example the FCC issued an order in October 2007 that mandated paging carriers (such as the Company) along with all other CMRS providers serving a defined minimum number of subscribers to maintain an emergency back-up power supply at all cell sites to enable operation for a minimum of eight hours in the event of a loss of commercial power (the “Back-up Power Order”). Ultimately after a hearing by the DC Circuit Court and disapproval by the OMB of the information collection requirements of the Back-Up Power Order, the FCC indicated that it would not seek to override the OMB’s disapproval. Rather the FCC indicated that it would issue a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking with the goal of adopting revised back-up power rules (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). To date, there has been no Notice of Proposed Rulemaking by the FCC and the Company is unable to predict what impact, if any, a revised back-up power rule could have on the Company’s operations, cash flows, ability to continue payment of cash distributions to stockholders and ability to repurchase shares of its common stock. 12 The FCC had also been considering changes to its rules governing the collection of universal service fees. The FCC had been considering imposing a flat monthly charge of $1.00 or more per assigned telephone number as opposed to assessing universal service contributions based on telecommunications carriers’ interstate revenues. The FCC decided to defer judgment on this issue to the new FCC chairman. There is no timetable for any further consideration of the numbers-based methodology. If the FCC had adopted a numbers-based methodology, the Company’s attempt to recover the increased contribution costs from customers could have significantly diminished demand for the Company’s services, and the Company’s failure to recover such increased contribution costs could have had a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, including the Company’s continued ability to remain profitable, produce positive operating cash flow, pay cash distributions to stockholders and repurchase shares of its common stock. General economic conditions that are largely out of the Company’s control may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s paging services business is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both nationally and locally. Recessionary economic cycles, higher interest rates, inflation, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, or other economic factors that may affect business spending or buying habits could adversely affect the demand for the Company’s services. In addition, the recent turmoil in the financial markets may have an adverse effect on the U.S. and world economy, which could negatively impact business spending patterns. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore business confidence. This adverse impact could increase the rate of gross subscriber cancellations and/or the level of revenue erosion. Adverse changes in gross subscriber cancellations and/or revenue erosion could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, including the Company’s continued ability to remain profitable, produce positive operating cash flow, pay cash distributions to stockholders and repurchase shares of its common stock ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company had no unresolved SEC staff comments as of February 27, 2009. 