Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the risks discussed under the heading “Business” we are subject to the following risks. Risks Relating to our Business Our business and financial condition could be materially impacted if we lose the services of certain employees. During the fiscal year we brought in additional employees and are working to cross train employees to lessen our dependence on any particular individual. We believe this has decreased our dependence on any one individual. We do not currently maintain key-man insurance on any of our executive officers or employees. Although it would not solve the potential problem of a loss of the services of any particular employee, we may seek key-man insurance on these individuals, and perhaps others, to help in the case of such an event If we are unable to attract and retain skilled workers that could impair our growth potential and profitability. Our ability to remain productive and profitable depends substantially on our ability to attract and retain skilled workers. Our ability to expand our operations is in part impacted by our ability to increase our labor force. The demand for skilled oilfield employees is high and the supply is very limited. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction in our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates paid by us, or both. If either of these events were to occur, our capacity and profitability could be diminished, and our growth potential could be impaired. The concentration of our customers in one industry and one region may impact our overall exposure to credit risk. Substantially all of our current customers operate in the energy industry in Western Canada. This concentration of customers in one industry and one region may impact our overall exposure to credit risk, either positively or negatively, in that customers may be similarly affected by changes in economic and industry conditions. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and do not generally require collateral in support of our trade receivables. 9 Our business has potential liability for litigation, personal injury and property damage claims assessments. Our operations involve exposure to inherent risks, including explosions and fires. If any of these events were to occur, it could result in liability for personal injury and property damage, pollution or other environmental hazards or loss of production. Litigation may arise from a catastrophic occurrence at a location where our equipment and services are used. This litigation could result in large claims for damages. The frequency and severity of such incidents could affect our operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators. These occurrences could have a material adverse effect on Profire. We maintain what we believe is prudent insurance protection. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable or that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future claims and assessments that may arise. Some of our products use equipment and materials that are available from a limited number of suppliers. We purchase equipment provided by a limited number of manufacturers who specialize in combustion burner equipment. During periods of high demand these manufacturers may not be able to meet our requests for timely delivery, resulting in delayed deliveries of equipment and higher prices for equipment. There are a limited number of suppliers for certain materials used in burner management systems, our largest product line. While these materials are generally available, supply disruptions can occur due to factors beyond our control. Such disruptions, delayed deliveries, and higher prices could limit our ability to provide services or increase the costs of providing services thus reducing revenues and profits. If we are unable to expand into new markets our ability to grow our business and profitably as planned could be materially adversely effected. We intend to pursue an aggressive growth strategy for the foreseeable future. Projected future operating results will depend largely upon our ability to expand to new markets and increase sales. To support this growth, we will increase our marketing expenditures, add new employees and open additional offices. There can also be no assurance that we will be able to expand our market share in our existing markets or successfully enter new or contiguous markets. Nor can there be any assurance that such expansion will not adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to manage growth effectively our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to successfully expand to new markets is dependent on a number of factors including: ● our ability to hire, train and assimilate new employees; ● the adequacy of our financial resources; and ● our ability to correctly identify and exploit new geographical markets and to successfully compete in those markets There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our planned expansion, that our products will gain access to new markets or be accepted in new marketplaces, or that we will achieve planned operating results or results comparable to those we experience in existing markets in the new markets we enter. 10 Changes in the level of capital spending by our customers could negatively impact our business and financial condition. Our principal customers are oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. Our results of operations are dependent on the level of capital spending by our customers. The energy industry’s level of capital spending is substantially related to the prevailing commodity price of natural gas and crude oil. Low commodity prices have the potential to reduce the amount of crude oil and natural gas that our customers can produce economically. While our products actually enhance the efficiency of their wells, we believe a prolonged downturn in market price will lead to reductions in the capital spending budgets of our clients and reductions in the demand for our products and services. Risks Relating to our Stock Liquidity of Common Stock. Our common stock has limited trading volume on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board and is not listed on a national exchange. Moreover, a significant percentage of the outstanding common stock is “restricted” and therefore subject to the resale restrictions set forth in Rule 144 of the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC under the Securities Act. These factors could adversely affect the liquidity, trading volume, price and transferability of our common stock. Our management has a substantial ownership interest in our common stock and the availability of our common stock to the investing public may be limited. Our management owns approximately 80% of our outstanding common stock. The availability of our common stock to the investing public may be limited to those shares not held by our executive officers, directors and their affiliates, which could negatively impact our trading prices and affect the ability of our minority stockholders to sell their shares. Future sales by executive officers, directors and their affiliates of all or a portion of their shares could also negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. You may face significant restrictions on the resale of our common stock due to federal regulations of penny stocks. Once common stock is subject to the requirements of Rule 15(g)9, promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as long as the price of our common stock is below $4.00 per share. Under such rule, broker-dealers who recommend low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must satisfy special sales practice requirements, including a requirement that they make an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's consent prior to the transaction. The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990, also requires additional disclosure in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock. Generally, the Commission defines a penny stock as any equity security not traded on an exchange or quoted on NASDAQ that has a market price of less than $4.00 per share. The required penny stock disclosures include the delivery, prior to any transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with it. Such requirements could severely limit the market liquidity of the securities and the ability of purchasers to sell their securities in the secondary market. 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 