Item 1A. Risk Factors B-12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments B-17 Item 2. Properties B-18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings B-19 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders B-19 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities B-19 Item 6. Selected Financial Data B-22 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations B-23 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk B-53 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data B-56 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure B-104 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures B-104 Item 9B. Other Information B-104 PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant B-105 Item 11. Executive Compensation B-105 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters B-105 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions B-105 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services B-105 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules B-106 Signatures B-109 B-4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview EnerSys (the “Company,” “we,” or “us”) is the world’s largest manufacturer, marketer and distributor of industrial batteries. We also manufacture, market and distribute related products such as chargers, power equipment and battery accessories, and we provide related after-market and customer-support services for industrial batteries. Industrial batteries generally are characterized as reserve power batteries or motive power batteries. Reserve power products also are known as network, standby or stationary power batteries and are used primarily for backup power applications to ensure continuous power supply in case of main (primary) power failure or outage. Reserve power batteries are used primarily to supply standby direct current (“DC”) operating power for: • telecommunications systems, such as wireless, wireline and internet access systems, central and local switching systems, satellite stations and radio transmission stations; • uninterruptible power systems (“UPS”) applications for computer and computer-controlled systems, including process control systems; • specialty power applications, including security systems, and for premium starting, lighting and ignition applications; • switchgear and electrical control systems used in electric utilities and energy pipelines; and • commercial and military aircraft, submarines and tactical military vehicles. Motive power products are used to provide power primarily for electric industrial forklift trucks. They compete primarily with propane- and diesel-powered internal combustion engines used principally in the following applications: • industrial forklift trucks in distribution and manufacturing facilities; • mining equipment, including scoops, coal haulers, shield haulers, underground forklifts, shuttle cars and locomotives; and • railroad equipment, including diesel locomotive starting, rail car lighting and rail signaling equipment; History EnerSys and its predecessor companies have been manufacturers of industrial batteries for over 100 years. Morgan Stanley Capital Partners teamed with the management of Yuasa, Inc. in late 2000 to acquire from Yuasa Corporation (Japan) its reserve power and motive power battery businesses in North and South America. We were incorporated in October 2000 for the purpose of completing the Yuasa, Inc. acquisition. On January 1, 2001, we changed our name from Yuasa, Inc. to EnerSys to reflect our focus on the energy systems nature of our businesses. Today, our reserve power batteries are marketed and sold principally under the PowerSafe, DataSafe, Hawker, Genesis, Odyssey, Varta and Cyclon brands. Our motive power batteries are marketed and sold principally under the Hawker, EnerSys Ironclad, General Battery, Fiamm Motive Power, Uranio, Oldham and Express brands. We also manufacture and sell related direct current—DC—power products including chargers, electronic power equipment and a wide variety of battery accessories. Our battery products span a broad range of sizes, configurations and electrical capacities, enabling us to meet a wide variety of customer applications. B-5 Table of Contents In August 2004, EnerSys completed an initial public offering (the “IPO”). The Company’s Registration Statement (SEC File No. 333-115553) for its IPO was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 26, 2004. The Company’s common stock commenced trading on the New York Stock Exchange on July 30, 2004, under the trading symbol “ENS.” We have expanded our product offerings and services globally through internal growth and acquisitions. In March 2002, we acquired the reserve power and motive power business of the Energy Storage Group of Invensys plc. (“ESG”). In June 2005, we acquired the motive power battery business of FIAMM, S.p.A. (FIAMM), which complements our then existing European motive power business. We also made smaller acquisitions of a producer of specialty nickel-based batteries based in Germany; a producer of lithium power sources, primarily for aerospace & defense applications located in the USA; a lead-acid battery business in Switzerland; a manufacturing facility in China, and a 97% interest in a producer of industrial batteries, located in Bulgaria. 2008 restructuring plan On May 23, 2007, we committed to the principal features of a plan to restructure certain of our European production and commercial operations. In part, the restructuring facilitated the integration of Energia AD into our worldwide operations. The restructuring was designed to improve operational efficiencies and eliminate redundant costs primarily attributable to the Energia transaction. Restructuring actions commenced upon the completion of the requisite consultations, and we expect it to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal 2009. In fiscal 2008, as a result of this restructuring, we incurred cash expenses of approximately $9 million, primarily for employee severance-related payments, and non-cash expenses of approximately $4 million, primarily for fixed asset write-offs. Recent Developments Sale of Manufacturing Facility In May 2008, we announced that, as part of our ongoing European restructuring program, we sold our Manchester, England manufacturing facility at a net of tax gain of approximately $8 million. This sale is consistent with our strategy to migrate our production to lower cost facilities. Concurrent Public Offerings of Senior Convertible Notes and Common Stock and a Private Offering of a New Senior Secured Credit Facility In May 2008, following the end of fiscal 2008, the Company completed the sale of $172.5 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured convertible notes, and used the net proceeds of $168.2 million to repay a portion of its existing senior secured Term Loan B. The senior unsecured convertible notes are potentially convertible at the option of the holders, at any time on or after March 1, 2015, but prior to the maturity date, into 24.6305 EnerSys common shares per $1,000 in original principal amount of the notes, equivalent to $40.60 per share or approximately 4.25 million common shares. It is our current intent to settle the principal amount of any conversions in cash, and any additional conversion consideration in cash, shares of EnerSys common stock or a combination of cash and shares. The notes will mature on June 1, 2038, unless earlier converted, redeemed or repurchased. Concurrently with the convertible note offering, certain of our stockholders offered to sell, subject to market and other conditions, 3.4 million shares of EnerSys’ common stock pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 19, 2008. The offered shares were sold by several of our stockholders, including affiliates of Metalmark Capital LLC and certain other institutional stockholders. The selling stockholders granted the underwriters an option to purchase up to 0.34 million additional shares, of which 0.29 million shares were exercised and sold. A total of 3.69 million shares were sold as of May 28, 2008. We did not receive any proceeds from the common stock offering. B-6 Table of Contents Also, immediately following the closing of the senior unsecured convertible note issue, we commenced refinancing the outstanding combined balance of the senior secured Term Loan B and our existing Revolver of approximately $200 million, with a new $350 million senior secured facility comprising Term A loans and a new Revolver. These planned refinancing transactions, which we expect to complete in June 2008, will strengthen our capital structure by adding senior unsecured convertible debt and a new senior secured debt facility that matures in 6 years. Amendments of Credit Agreements On May 16, 2008, EnerSys completed the Fifth Amendment to the $480 million Senior Secured Credit Agreement which allowed for the issuance of up to $205 million of unsecured indebtedness. The proceeds from the unsecured indebtedness must be used to pay down the senior secured Term Loan B. On May 28, 2008, EnerSys used the net proceeds of $168.2 million from the senior unsecured convertible notes to pay down a portion of the senior secured Term Loan B. On May 15, 2008, the Company amended its Euro 25 million Credit Agreement to allow for the issuance of up to $205 million of unsecured indebtedness. The proceeds from the unsecured indebtedness must be used to pay down the senior secured Term Loan B. Additionally, the amendment authorized the Company to enter into a new $350 million US Credit Agreement on terms substantially similar to the existing Credit Agreement. Termination of Interest Rate Swap Agreements In connection with the issuance of $172.5 million of senior unsecured convertible notes, and the repayment of a portion of the senior secured Term Loan B in May 2008, we terminated $30 million of interest rate swap agreements which had been placed in October, 2005 at a loss of $1.4 million. Fiscal Year Reporting In this Form 10-K, when we refer to our fiscal years, we say “fiscal” and the year number, as in “fiscal 2008”, which refers to our fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods, except for the first quarter, which always begins on April 1, and the fourth quarter, which always ends on March 31. The four fiscal quarters in fiscal 2008 ended on July 1, 2007, September 30, 2007, December 30, 2007, and March 31, 2008, respectively. The four fiscal quarters in fiscal 2007 ended on July 2, 2006, October 1, 2006, December 31, 2006, and March 31, 2007, respectively. The four fiscal quarters in fiscal 2006 ended on July 3, 2005, October 2, 2005, January 1, 2006, and March 31, 2006, respectively. Financial information about segments and geographic areas is incorporated by reference from Note 24 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K. Our Customers We serve over 10,000 customers in over 100 countries, on a direct basis or through our distributors. We are not overly dependent on any particular end market or geographic region. No single customer accounts for more than 7% of our revenues. Reserve Power Our reserve power customers consist of regional customers as well as global customers. These customers are in diverse markets ranging from telecom to UPS, electric utilities, security systems, emergency lighting and premium starting, lighting and ignition applications. In addition, we sell our aerospace & defense products to numerous countries, including the governments of the U.S., Germany and the U.K. and to major defense and aviation original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”). B-7 Table of Contents Motive Power Our motive power customers include a large, diversified customer base. These customers include material handling equipment dealers, OEMs and end users of such equipment. End users include manufacturers, distributors, warehouse operators, retailers, airports, mine operators and railroads. Distribution and Services Reserve Power We distribute, sell and service reserve power products globally through a combination of company-owned offices, independent manufacturers’ representatives and distributors managed by our regional sales managers. With our global manufacturing locations and regional warehouses, we believe we are well positioned to meet our customers’ delivery and servicing requirements. We have targeted our approach to meet local market conditions, which we believe provides the best possible service for our regional customers and our global accounts. Motive Power We distribute, sell and service our motive power products throughout the world, principally through company-owned sales and service facilities, as well as through independent manufacturers’ representatives. We believe we are one of the only battery manufacturers in the motive power battery industry that operates a primarily company-owned service network. This company-owned network allows us to offer high-quality service, including preventative maintenance programs and customer support. Our warehouses and service locations enable us to respond quickly to customers in the markets we serve. We believe that the extensive industry experience of our sales organization results in strong long-term customer relationships. Manufacturing and Raw Materials We manufacture and assemble reserve power and motive power batteries and related products at manufacturing facilities located in the Americas, Europe and Asia. We believe that our global approach to manufacturing has significantly helped us increase our market share during the past several years. With a view toward projected demand, we strive to optimize and balance capacity at our battery manufacturing facilities located throughout the world, while simultaneously minimizing our product cost. By taking a global view of our manufacturing requirements and capacity, we are better able to anticipate potential capacity bottlenecks and equipment and capital funding needs. The primary raw materials used to manufacture our products include lead, plastics, steel and copper. We purchase lead from a number of leading suppliers throughout the world. Because lead is traded on the world’s commodity markets and its price fluctuates daily, we enter into hedging arrangements from time to time for a portion of our projected requirements to reduce the volatility of these fluctuations. Competition The industrial battery market is highly competitive both among competitors who manufacture and sell industrial batteries and among customers who purchase industrial batteries. Our competitors range from development stage companies to major domestic and international corporations. We also compete with other energy storage technologies. We compete primarily on the basis of reputation, product quality, reliability of service, delivery and price. We believe that our products and services are competitively priced. Reserve Power We believe we have the largest market share for reserve power products on a worldwide basis. We compete principally with Exide Technologies, GS Yuasa, C&D Technologies, FIAMM, Coslight, and East Penn Manufacturing. B-8 Table of Contents Motive Power We believe we have the largest market share for motive power products on a worldwide basis. Our principal competitor, on a global basis, is Exide Technologies. On a regional basis, East Penn Manufacturing and Crown Battery Manufacturing Co. compete with us in North America, Hoppecke competes with us in Europe, and JSB, Shinkobe, GS Yuasa and Hitachi compete with us in Asia. Warranties Warranties for our products vary by geography and product and are competitive with other suppliers of these types of products. Generally, our reserve power products’ warranties range from one- to twenty-years and our motive power products’ warranties range from one- to seven-years. The length of our warranties is sometimes extended to reflect varied regional characteristics and competitive influences. In some cases, we may extend the warranty period to include a pro rata period, which is typically based around the design life of the product and the application served. Our warranties generally cover defects in workmanship and materials and are limited to specific usage parameters. Intellectual Property We have numerous patents and patent licenses in the United States and other jurisdictions but do not consider any one patent to be material to our business. From time to time we apply for patents on new inventions and designs. However, we believe that the growth of our business will depend primarily upon the quality of our products and our relationships with our customers, rather than the extent of our patent protection. Although other manufacturers may possess certain thin-plate pure-lead technology (“TPPL”), we believe we are the only manufacturer of products using TPPL technology in the reserve power markets. Some aspects of this technology may be patented in the future. In any event, we believe that a significant capital investment would be required by any party desiring to produce products using TPPL technology for these markets. We own or possess exclusive and non-exclusive licenses and other rights to use a number of trademarks in various jurisdictions. We have obtained registrations for many of these trademarks in the United States and other jurisdictions. Our various trademark registrations currently have a duration of approximately one to 10 years, varying by mark and jurisdiction of registration and may be renewable. We endeavor to keep all of our material registrations current. We believe that many such rights and licenses are important to our business by helping to develop strong brand-name recognition in the marketplace. Some of the significant (registered and unregistered) trademarks that we use include: Armasafe+, Chloride, Cobra, Cyclon, DataSafe, Deserthog, Energy Plus, Envirolink, ESB, Espace, EnerSys Ironclad, Express, FIAMM Motive Power, GBC, Genesis, Genesis NP, Genesis Pure Lead, Hawker, HUP, Hybernator, LifeGuard, LifePlus, Life Speed, Loadhog, Oasis, Odyssey, Oldham, Perfect, PowerGuard, PowerLease, Powerline, PowerPlus, PowerSafe, Smarthog, Superhog, Supersafe, Titan PowerTech, Uranio, Varta, Waterless and Workhog. Seasonality Our business generally does not experience significant monthly or quarterly fluctuations in net sales as a result of weather or other trends that can be directly linked to seasonality patterns. However, our second fiscal quarter normally experiences moderate reductions in net sales as compared to our first fiscal quarter for that year, due to summer manufacturing shutdowns of our customers and holidays primarily in North America and Western Europe. That was the case in fiscal 2007 but, in fiscal 2008, each quarter was higher than the preceding quarter, primarily due to price recovery initiatives and the strengthening of other currencies against the U.S. dollar. Our fourth fiscal quarter normally experiences the highest sales of any fiscal quarter within a given year, as was the case in fiscal 2006, 2007 and 2008. Many reserve power telecommunications customers tend to perform extensive service and engage in higher battery replacement and maintenance activities in the first calendar quarter of a year, which is our fourth fiscal quarter. In addition, many of our largest industrial customers are on a calendar fiscal year basis and many tend to purchase their durable goods more heavily in that quarter than any other within the calendar year. B-9 Table of Contents Product and Process Development Our product and process development efforts are focused on the creation and optimization of new battery products using existing technologies, which, in certain cases, differentiate our stored energy solutions from that of our competition. We allocate our resources to the following key areas: • the design and development of new products; • optimizing and expanding our existing product offering; • waste reduction; • production efficiency and utilization; • capacity expansion, without additional facilities; and • quality attribute maximization. Employees At March 31, 2008, we had approximately 8,600 employees. Of these employees, approximately 3,600, almost all of whom work in our European facilities, were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The average term of these agreements is two years, with the longest term being three and one-half years. These agreements expire over the period from calendar years 2008 to 2009. We consider our employee relations to be good. Historically, we have not experienced any significant labor unrest or disruption of production. Environmental Matters In the manufacture of our products throughout the world, we process, store, dispose of and otherwise use large amounts of hazardous materials, especially lead and acid. As a result, we are subject to extensive and changing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the generation, handling, storage, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; and the health and safety of our employees. In addition, we may in the future, be required to comply with the directive issued from the European Economic Union called Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals or “REACH,” that entered into force on 1 June 2007. Under the directive, companies which manufacture or import more than one ton of a chemical substance per year will be required to register it in a central database administered by the new EU Chemicals Agency. REACH will require a registration, over a period of 11 years, of some 30,000 chemical substances. Compliance with these laws and regulations results in ongoing costs. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations, or to obtain or comply with required environmental permits, could result in fines, criminal charges or other sanctions by regulators. From time to time, we have had instances of alleged or actual noncompliance that have resulted in the imposition of fines, penalties and required corrective actions. Our ongoing compliance with environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permits could require us to incur significant expenses, limit our ability to modify or expand our facilities or continue production and require us to install additional pollution control equipment and make other capital improvements. In addition, private parties, including current or former employees, could bring personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or their exposure to, hazardous substances used, stored, transported or disposed of by us or contained in our products. Certain environmental laws assess liability on owners or operators of real property for the cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their current or former properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. These laws may also assess costs to repair damage to natural resources. We may be responsible for remediating damage to our properties that was caused by former owners. Soil and groundwater contamination has occurred at some of our current and former properties B-10 Table of Contents and may occur or be discovered at other properties in the future. We currently are investigating and monitoring soil and groundwater contamination at certain of our properties, and we may be required to conduct these operations at other properties in the future. In addition, we have been and in the future may be liable to contribute to the cleanup of locations owned or operated by other persons to which we or our predecessor companies have sent wastes for disposal, pursuant to federal and other environmental laws. Under these laws, the owner or operator of contaminated properties and companies that generated, disposed of or arranged for the disposal of wastes sent to a contaminated disposal facility can be held jointly and severally liable for the investigation and cleanup of such properties, regardless of fault. Manchester, England We currently have identified three potentially significant environmental issues resulting from historical operations at our Manchester, England battery facility: lead slag piles that may pose a health risk are located in the vicinity of a public footpath on the property; the potential restoration of the Manchester, Bolton and Bury Canal by British Waterways may lead to sampling and/or remediation obligations with respect to the canal and surrounding areas located on our property; and there may be multiple and as yet unidentified areas of soil and groundwater contamination at the facility. We believe we have a right to be indemnified by the previous owner for these potential environmental liabilities in excess of amounts accrued and submitted a notice of claim to the previous owner in May 2003 regarding these issues. No government or third-party lawsuits, regulatory actions or orders have been filed with respect to this site to date, and all our actions at this site to date are voluntary. We originally established a reserve for this facility at £3.5 million, and as of March 31, 2008, the remaining reserve approximated £3.3 million. This reserve was set up under purchase accounting. Based on the information available at this time, we believe this reserve is sufficient to satisfy these environmental liabilities. See “Recent Developments” above, regarding the sale of the Manchester, England facility, which was completed subsequent to our year end. Sumter, South Carolina We currently are responsible for certain environmental obligations at the former Yuasa battery facility in Sumter, South Carolina. This battery facility was closed in 2001 and is separate from our current metal fabrication facility in Sumter. Remediation issues related to lead contamination in the soil were addressed pursuant to a 1998 Consent Order with the State of South Carolina, and we believe this matter to be closed. We are subject to ongoing storm water inspection requirements under a 2000 Consent Order based on suspected lead contamination. We also are in periodic discussions with the State of South Carolina regarding alleged trichloroethylene (TCE) and other volatile organic compound (VOC) contamination in the groundwater that predates our ownership of this facility. There may be other unidentified contaminants in the soil or groundwater that also predate our ownership of this facility. We have established a reserve for this facility, and in fiscal 2008, we received $1.1 million from a previous owner in settlement of their indemnification of potential environmental liabilities related to the Sumter facility. As of March 31, 2008, the reserves related to this facility and the removal of its remaining equipment totaled approximately $4.0 million. Based on current information, we believe this reserve is adequate to satisfy our environmental liabilities at this facility. Environmental and safety certifications Eight of our facilities in the United States, Europe and Asia are certified to ISO 14001 standards. ISO 14001 is a globally recognized, voluntary program that focuses on the implementation, maintenance and continual improvement of an environmental management system and the improvement of environmental performance. Two facilities in Europe are certified to ISO 18000 standards. Quality Systems We utilize a global strategy for quality management systems, policies and procedures, the basis of which is the ISO 9001:2000 standard, which is a worldwide recognized quality standard. We believe in the principles of B-11 Table of Contents this standard and reinforce this by requiring mandatory compliance for all manufacturing, sales and service locations that are registered to the ISO 9001 standard. This strategy enables us to provide effective products and services to meet our customers’ needs. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). These filings are available to the public on the Internet at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room, located at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room. Our Internet address is http://www.enersys.com. We make available free of charge on http://www.enersys.com our annual, quarterly and current reports, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and uncertainties, as well as others described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial conditions and could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. Stockholders are cautioned that these and other factors, including those beyond our control, may affect future performance and cause actual results to differ from those which may, from time to time, be anticipated. There may be additional risks that are not presently material or known. See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” All forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf are qualified by the risks described below. We operate in an extremely competitive industry and are subject to continual pricing pressure. We compete with a number of major international manufacturers and distributors, as well as a large number of smaller, regional competitors. Due to excess capacity in some sectors of our industry, consolidation among industrial battery purchasers and the financial difficulties being experienced by several of our competitors, we have been subjected to continual and significant pricing pressures. These pricing pressures have prevented us from fully passing increased material costs through to customers. We anticipate heightened competitive pricing pressure as Chinese and other foreign producers, able to employ labor at significantly lower costs than producers in the U.S. and Western Europe, expand their export capacity and increase their marketing presence in our major U.S. and European markets. Several of our competitors have strong technical, marketing, sales, manufacturing, distribution and other resources, as well as significant name recognition, established positions in the market and long-standing relationships with original equipment manufacturers and other customers. In addition, certain of our competitors own lead smelting facilities which, during periods of lead cost increases or price volatility, may provide a competitive pricing advantage and reduce their exposure to volatile raw material costs. Our ability to maintain and improve our operating margins has depended, and continues to depend, on our ability to control and reduce our costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to reduce our operating expenses, to raise or maintain our prices or increase our unit volume, in order to maintain or improve our operating results. Cyclical industry conditions of our customers have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations. Our operating results are affected by the general cyclical pattern of the industries in which our major customer groups operate and the overall economic conditions in which we and our customers operate. Both our reserve power and motive power segments are heavily dependent on the end-user markets they serve, such as telecommunications, UPS and electric industrial forklift trucks. A weak capital expenditure environment in these markets has had, and can be expected to have, a material adverse effect on our results of operations. B-12 Table of Contents Our raw materials costs are volatile and expose us to significant movements in our product costs. We use significant amounts of lead, plastics, steel, copper and other materials in our manufacturing processes. We estimate that raw material costs account for over half of our cost of goods sold. Lead is our most significant raw material. The costs of these raw materials, particularly lead, are volatile and beyond our control. Volatile raw material costs can significantly affect our operating results and make period-to-period comparisons extremely difficult. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hedge the costs of our raw material requirements at a reasonable level or pass on to our customers the increased costs of our raw materials. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental, health and safety liabilities, costs, and litigation. In the manufacture of our products throughout the world, we process, store, dispose of and otherwise use large amounts of hazardous materials, especially lead and acid. As a result, we are subject to extensive and changing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the generation, handling, storage, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials; remediation of polluted ground or water; emissions or discharges of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; and the health and safety of our employees. Compliance with these laws and regulations results in ongoing costs. Failure to comply with these laws or regulations, or to obtain or comply with required environmental permits, could result in fines, criminal charges or other sanctions by regulators. From time to time we have had instances of alleged or actual noncompliance that have resulted in the imposition of fines, penalties and required corrective actions. Our ongoing compliance with environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permits could require us to incur significant expenses, limit our ability to modify or expand our facilities or continue production and require us to install additional pollution control equipment and make other capital improvements. In addition, private parties, including current or former employees, could bring personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances used, stored or disposed of by us or contained in our products. Certain environmental laws assess liability on owners or operators of real property for the cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their current or former properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. These laws may also assess costs to repair damage to natural resources. We may be responsible for remediating damage to our properties that was caused by former owners. Soil and groundwater contamination has occurred at some of our current and former properties and may occur or be discovered at other properties in the future. We are currently investigating and monitoring soil and groundwater contamination at certain of our properties, and we may be required to conduct these operations at other properties in the future. In addition, we have been and in the future may be liable to contribute to the cleanup of locations owned or operated by other persons to which we or our predecessor companies have sent wastes for disposal, pursuant to federal and other environmental laws. Under these laws, the owner or operator of contaminated properties and companies that generated, disposed of or arranged for the disposal of wastes sent to a contaminated disposal facility can be held jointly and severally liable for the investigation and cleanup of such properties, regardless of fault. We cannot assure you that we have been or at all times will be in compliance with environmental laws and regulations or that we will not be required to expend significant funds to comply with, or discharge liabilities arising under, environmental laws, regulations and permits, or that we will not be exposed to material environmental, health or safety litigation. Legislation regarding the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. The European Union has directed that new electrical and electronic equipment not contain certain hazardous substances, including lead and cadmium. Because battery accessories and chargers are subject to this directive, our compliance with the directive directly impacts our manufacturing of these products and could cause certain B-13 Table of Contents of our existing inventory to be obsolete. In addition, certain other jurisdictions outside the European Union have implemented, or plan to implement, similar restrictions with various compliance dates. We cannot assure you that we will meet all restrictions by each of the required dates. Inventory obsolescence and our failure to comply could each have an adverse effect on our financial results. We are exposed to exchange rate risks, and our net income and financial condition may suffer due to currency translations. We invoice foreign sales and service transactions in local currencies and translate net sales using actual exchange rates during the period. We translate our non-U.S. assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars using current rates as of the balance sheet date. Because a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies, changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, primarily the euro and British pound, may adversely affect our revenue, cost of revenue and operating margins. For example, foreign currency depreciation against the U.S. dollar will reduce the value of our foreign revenues and operating earnings as well as reduce our net investment in foreign subsidiaries. Over 60% of net sales were generated outside of North America. Most of the risk of fluctuating foreign currencies is in our Europe operations, which comprised over half of our net sales during the last two fiscal years. The euro is the dominant currency in our European operations. The translation impact from currency fluctuations on net sales and operating earnings in the Americas and Asia regions is minimal, as a substantial majority of these net sales and operating earnings are in dollars or are closely correlated to the dollar. Foreign currency depreciation will make it more expensive for our non-U.S. subsidiaries to purchase certain of our raw material commodities that are priced globally in U.S. dollars, while the related revenue will decrease when translated to U.S. dollars. Significant movements in foreign exchange rates can have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We periodically engage in hedging of our foreign currency exposure, but cannot assure you that we can successfully hedge all of our foreign currency exposure or do so at a reasonable cost. Our international operations may be adversely affected by actions taken by foreign governments or other forces or events over which we may have no control. We currently have significant manufacturing and distribution facilities outside of the U.S., including in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, China, Mexico, Poland, Czech Republic, Spain, Italy and Bulgaria. We may face political instability and economic uncertainty, cultural and religious differences and difficult labor relations in our foreign operations. We also may face barriers in the form of long-standing relationships between potential customers and their existing suppliers, national policies favoring domestic manufacturers and protective regulations including exchange controls, restrictions on foreign investment or the repatriation of profits or invested capital, changes in export or import restrictions and changes in the tax system or rate of taxation in countries where we do business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop and expand our international operations and sales or that we will be able to overcome the significant obstacles and risks of our international operations. Our failure to introduce new products and product enhancements and broad market acceptance of new technologies introduced by our competitors could adversely affect our business. Many new energy storage technologies have been introduced over the past several years. In addition, recent advances in fuel cell and flywheel technology have been introduced for use in selected applications that compete with the end uses for industrial batteries. For certain important and growing markets, such as aerospace & defense, lithium-based battery technologies have large and growing market share. Our ability to achieve significant and B-14 Table of Contents sustained penetration of key developing markets, including aerospace & defense, will depend upon our success in developing or acquiring these and other technologies, either independently, through joint ventures or through acquisitions. If we fail to develop or acquire, and manufacture and sell, products that satisfy our customers’ demands, or we fail to respond effectively to new product announcements by our competitors by quickly introducing competitive products, then market acceptance of our products could be reduced and our business could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our lead-acid products will remain competitive with products based on new technologies. We may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary intellectual property and technology. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements and other confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to establish, protect and maintain our proprietary intellectual property and technology and other confidential information. Certain of these technologies, especially in thin-plate pure-lead—TPPL—technology, are important to our business and are not protected by patents. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary intellectual property and technology and other confidential information, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property and proprietary technologies. Relocation of our customers’ operations could adversely affect our business. The trend by a number of our North American and Western European customers to move manufacturing operations and expand their businesses into Asia and other low labor-cost markets may have an adverse impact on our business. As our customers in traditional manufacturing-based industries seek to move their manufacturing operations to lower-cost territories, there is a risk that these customers will source their energy storage products from competitors located in those territories and will cease or reduce the purchase of products from our manufacturing plants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively with manufacturing operations of energy storage products in those territories, whether by establishing or expanding our manufacturing operations in those lower-cost territories or acquiring existing manufacturers. We may fail to implement our cost reduction initiatives successfully and improve our profitability. We must continue to implement cost reduction initiatives to achieve additional cost savings in future periods. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve all of the cost savings that we expect to realize from current or future initiatives. In particular, we may be unable to implement one or more of our initiatives successfully or we may experience unexpected cost increases that offset the savings that we achieve. Given the continued competitive pricing pressures experienced in our industry, our failure to realize cost savings would adversely affect our results of operations. Quality problems with our products could harm our reputation and erode our competitive position. The success of our business will depend upon the quality of our products and our relationships with customers. In the event that our products fail to meet our customers’ standards, our reputation could be harmed, which would adversely affect our marketing and sales efforts. We cannot assure you that our customers will not experience quality problems with our products. We offer our products under a variety of brand names, the protection of which is important to our reputation for quality in the consumer marketplace. We rely upon a combination of trademark, licensing and contractual covenants to establish and protect the brand names of our products. We have registered many of our trademarks in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries. In many market segments, our reputation is closely related to our brand names. Monitoring unauthorized use of our brand names is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have B-15 Table of Contents taken will prevent their unauthorized use, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S. We cannot assure you that our brand names will not be misappropriated or utilized without our consent or that such actions will not have a material adverse effect on our reputation and on our results of operations. We may fail to implement our plans to make acquisitions or successfully integrate them into our operations. As part of our business strategy, we have grown, and plan to continue growing, by acquiring other product lines, technologies or facilities that complement or expand our existing business. There is significant competition for acquisition targets in the industrial battery industry. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or negotiate attractive terms. In addition, we may have difficulty obtaining the financing necessary to complete transactions we pursue. In that regard, our credit facilities restrict the amount of additional indebtedness that we may incur to finance acquisitions and place other restrictions on our ability to make acquisitions. Exceeding any of these restrictions would require the consent of our lenders. We may be unable to successfully integrate any assets, liabilities, customers, systems and management personnel we acquire into our operations and we may not be able to realize related revenue synergies and cost savings within expected time frames. Our failure to execute our acquisition strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot assure you that our acquisition strategy will be successful or that we will be able to successfully integrate acquisitions we do make. Any acquisitions that we complete may dilute your ownership interest in EnerSys, may have adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations and may cause unanticipated liabilities. Future acquisitions may involve the issuance of our equity securities as payment, in part or in full, for the businesses or assets acquired. Any future issuances of equity securities would dilute your ownership interests. In addition, future acquisitions might not increase, and may even decrease our earnings or earnings per share and the benefits derived by us from an acquisition might not outweigh or might not exceed the dilutive effect of the acquisition. We also may incur additional debt or suffer adverse tax and accounting consequences in connection with any future acquisitions. The failure of critical computer systems could seriously affect our sales and operations. We operate a number of critical computer systems throughout our business that can fail for a variety of reasons. If such a failure were to occur, then we may not be able to sufficiently recover from the failure in time to avoid the loss of data or any adverse impact on certain of our operations that are dependent on such systems. This could result in lost sales and the inefficient operation of our facilities for the duration of such a failure. Our ability to maintain an adequate credit facility. Our ability to continue our ongoing business operations and fund future growth depends on our ability to maintain an adequate credit facility and to comply with the financial and other covenants in such credit facility or to secure alternative sources of financing. However, such credit facility or alternate financing may not be available or if available may not be on terms favorable to us. Our significant indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. As of March 31, 2008, we had $426.8 million of total consolidated debt. This level of debt could: • increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a significant portion of our borrowings bear, and will continue to bear, interest at floating rates; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, which would reduce the availability of our cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions; B-16 Table of Contents • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; • restrict our ability to introduce new products or new technologies or exploit business opportunities; • place us at a disadvantage compared with competitors that have proportionately less debt; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds in the future, if we need them, due to financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements; and • have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with the financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements. This list of factors that may affect future performance is illustrative, but by no means exhaustive. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. B-17 Table of Contents 