ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The payday loan industry is highly regulated under state laws. Changes in state laws and regulations governing lending practices could negatively affect our business. Our business is regulated under numerous state laws and regulations, which are subject to change and which may impose significant costs or limitations on the way we conduct or expand our business. As of December 31, 2007, 36 states and the District of Columbia had legislation permitting or not prohibiting payday loans (the remaining 14 states did not have laws specifically authorizing the payday loan business). During 2007, we made payday loans directly in 25 of these 36 states. Until November 2005, we marketed and serviced payday loans for a lending bank in North Carolina. In November 2005, we ceased marketing those loans and ceased operations in North Carolina. In February 2005, we began doing business in Texas, serving as a marketing and servicing agent through our new payday loan branches in that state for a second lending bank that made payday loans to its customers in Texas. In September 2005, we discontinued marketing and servicing loans for the third-party bank in Texas and began doing business in Texas as a credit services organization, assisting our customers in Texas in obtaining loans from an unrelated third-party lender. During the last few years, legislation has been adopted in some states that prohibits or severely restricts payday loans. For example, in 2006, Oregon passed a ballot initiative that effectively caps interest rates and origination fees on payday loans at 36%, among other provisions. This ballot initiative became effective July 1, 2007, and effectively bans payday lending in Oregon. Similarly, in May 2004, a new law became effective in Georgia that effectively prohibits direct payday lending in Georgia. In recent years, including 2007, more than 200 bills have been introduced in state legislatures nationwide, including bills in virtually every state in which we are doing business, to revise the current law governing payday loans in that state. In certain instances, the bills, if adopted, would effectively prohibit payday loans in that state. In other instances, the bills, if adopted, would amend the payday loan laws in ways that would adversely affect our revenues and earnings in that state. Some states, including Mississippi and Arizona, which are states in which we operate, have sunset provisions in their payday loan laws (with a sunset of 2009 for the current Mississippi law and a sunset of 2010 for the current Arizona law) that require renewal of the laws by the state legislatures at periodic intervals. Any of these bills, or future proposed legislation or regulations prohibiting payday loans or making them less profitable or unprofitable, could be passed in any of these states at any time, or existing payday loan laws could expire or be amended. A wide range of legislative or regulatory actions in any number of states could have a material and adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. Statutes authorizing payday loans typically provide state agencies that regulate banks and financial institutions with significant regulatory powers to administer and enforce the law. Under statutory authority, state regulators have broad discretionary power and may impose new licensing requirements, interpret or enforce existing regulatory requirements in different ways or issue new administrative rules, even if not contained in state statutes, that affect the way we do business and may force us to terminate or modify our operations in particular states. They may also impose rules that are generally adverse to our industry. States have generally increased their regulatory and compliance requirements for payday loans in recent years, and our branches are subject to examination by state regulators in most states. We have taken or been required to take certain corrective actions as a result of self-audits or state audits of our branches and anticipate that the level of regulation and compliance costs will continue to increase. 16 Table of Contents Additionally, in many states, the attorney general has scrutinized or continues to scrutinize the payday loan statutes and the interpretations of those statutes. For instance, in September 2005, the New Mexico Attorney General promulgated regulations (later withdrawn) that would have had the practical effect of limiting the fees and interest on payday loans to 54% per annum, thus effectively prohibiting payday lending in New Mexico. Similarly, we and other payday lenders operated and were licensed in Indiana under a state law that was generally interpreted to permit payday loans. In January 2000, the Indiana Attorney General issued an opinion that this statute did not allow payday lending. Following the issuance of this opinion, we were sued in two class action lawsuits alleging violations of this statute as interpreted by the Attorney General. We settled the lawsuits for an aggregate of approximately $1.0 million in 2001. In addition, we materially reduced operations in Indiana after these developments. Although we were not a party to the proceeding, the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks issued a Notice of Hearing to Advance America, Cash Advance Centers of North Carolina, Inc. (Advance America) on February 1, 2005. In December 2005, the Commissioner of Banks issued a ruling in this matter in which the Commission determined that Advance America, which marketed, originated, serviced and collected payday loans on behalf of a state-chartered bank located in Kentucky, violated the North Carolina Consumer Finance Act and the North Carolina Check Cashers Act and ordered Advance America to cease further operations of its payday loan stores in North Carolina to the extent they make loans on behalf of a lending bank. Future interpretations of state law in other jurisdictions or promulgation of regulations or new interpretations, similar to the prior actions in New Mexico, the prior interpretation by the Indiana Attorney General or the ruling by the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks, could have an adverse impact on our ability to offer payday loans in those states and an adverse impact on our earnings. The payday loan industry is regulated under federal law. Changes in federal laws and regulations governing lending practices could negatively affect our business. Although states provide the primary regulatory framework under which we offer payday loans, certain federal laws also affect our business. For example, because payday loans are viewed as extensions of credit, we must comply with the federal Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z adopted under that Act. Additionally, we are subject to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and with respect to our CSO business in Texas, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act. These regulations also apply to any lender with which we do business in Texas through our credit services organization business. Any failure to comply with any of these federal laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, anti-payday loan legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress periodically. These efforts culminated in federal legislation in 2006 that limits the interest rate and fees that may be charged on any loans, including payday loans, to any person in the military to 36% per annum. The military lending prohibition became effective October 1, 2007 and effectively bans payday lending to members of the military or their families. For the year ended December 31, 2007, revenue from loans to members of the military or their families was not material to our results of operations. Future federal legislative or regulatory action that restricts or prohibits payday loans could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents The payday loan industry is subject to various local rules and regulations. Changes in these local regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition to state and federal laws and regulations, our business is subject to various local rules and regulations such as local zoning regulations and permit licensing. We have seen increasing efforts by local jurisdictions to restrict payday lending through the use of local zoning and permitting laws. Those zoning-type actions accelerated in 2007. Any actions taken in the future by local zoning boards or other governing bodies to require special use permits for, or impose other restrictions on payday lenders could impact our growth strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Litigation and regulatory actions directed toward our industry and us could adversely affect our operating results, particularly in certain key states. During the last few years, our industry has been subject to regulatory proceedings, class action lawsuits and other litigation regarding the offering of payday loans, and we could suffer losses from interpretations of state laws in those lawsuits or regulatory proceedings, even if we are not a party to those proceedings. For example, the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks issued a ruling in 2005 in which it determined that Advance America, which marketed, originated, serviced and collected payday loans on behalf of a state-chartered bank located in Kentucky, violated various North Carolina consumer statutes. Although we determined to discontinue our operations in North Carolina prior to the time that decision was issued, the pendency of that matter, among many other factors, caused us to close our North Carolina operations in 2005. On February 8, 2005, the Company, including our subsidiary doing business in North Carolina, and Mr. Don Early, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, were sued in North Carolina state court in a putative class action lawsuit filed by two customers of a Delaware state-chartered bank, for whom we provided certain services in connection with the bank’s origination of payday loans in North Carolina, prior to closing our North Carolina branches in fourth quarter 2005. The lawsuit alleges that we violated various North Carolina laws in connection with payday loans made by the bank to the two plaintiffs through our retail locations in North Carolina. The lawsuit alleges that we made the payday loans to the plaintiffs in violation of various state statutes, and that if we are not viewed as the “actual lenders or makers” of the payday loans, our services to the bank that made the loans violated various North Carolina statutes. Although we have discontinued our operations in North Carolina, that lawsuit is continuing, as discussed below under “Legal Proceedings.” We are also subject to litigation in Missouri in which the plaintiff alleges various violations of the state lending laws, as described below under Item 3 “Legal Proceedings.” The consequences of an adverse ruling in any of the current cases or future litigation or proceedings could cause us to have to refund fees or interest collected on payday loans, to refund the principal amount of payday loans, to pay treble or other multiple damages, to pay monetary penalties or to modify or terminate our operations in particular states. We may also be subject to adverse publicity arising out of current or future litigation. Defense of any lawsuits or proceedings, even if we were successful, could require substantial time and attention of our senior officers and other management personnel that would otherwise be spent on other aspects of our business and could require the expenditure of significant amounts for legal fees and other related costs. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Additionally, regulatory actions taken with respect to one financial service that we offer could negatively affect our ability to offer other financial services. For example, if we were the subject of regulatory action related to our check cashing, title loans or other products, that regulatory action could adversely affect our ability to maintain our licenses for payday lending. Moreover, the suspension or revocation of our license or other authorization in one state could adversely affect our ability to maintain licenses in other states. Accordingly, a violation of a law or regulation in otherwise unrelated products or jurisdictions could affect other parts of our business and adversely affect our business and operations as a whole. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to manage our growth effectively. In the second half of 2004 and all of 2005, we grew our business dramatically, primarily through the opening of 219 de novo branches during that 18-month time period. The dramatic growth in new branches created numerous operating challenges for us in 2005, including particularly high loan losses in the second and third quarters in 2005, compared to the same quarters in 2004. We believe that the higher loan losses were attributable in part to the challenges of managing that growth. Managing growth requires a number of key support functions, including the ability to hire, train and retain an adequate number of experienced managers and employees, the ability to effectively communicate our branch-level policies, procedures and practices to new managers and employees, the ability to identify good branch locations, the ability to obtain government permits and licenses for new branches and other factors that are beyond our control. Expansion beyond the geographic areas where our branches are presently located will continue to place time demands on management and divert their attention, which could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. While we have completed only one larger acquisition since our initial public offering in July 2004, we continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities as a regular part of our business. Acquisitions may entail numerous integration risks and impose costs on us, including: • difficulties integrating a workforce that understands and implements our vision of customer service; • difficulties associated with expanding into new or related businesses as part of acquisitions; • difficulties integrating acquired operations or services; • the risk of the loss of key employees from acquired businesses; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • dilutive issuances of our equity securities (to the extent used to finance acquisitions); • incurrence of indebtedness (to the extent used to finance acquisitions); • assumption of known and unknown contingent liabilities; • the potential impairment of acquired assets; and • incurrence of significant immediate write-offs. In addition, we may not be successful in identifying attractive acquisitions or completing acquisitions on favorable terms. Our failure to identify, close and integrate acquired branches could adversely affect our business. 19 Table of Contents Any disruption in the availability of our information systems could adversely affect operations at our branches. We rely upon our information systems to manage and operate our branches and business. Each branch is part of an information network that permits us to maintain adequate cash inventory, reconcile cash balances daily, report revenues and loan losses timely and, in Texas, to access the third-party lender’s loan approval system. Our security measures could fail to prevent a disruption in the availability of our information systems and/or our back-up systems could fail to operate properly. Any disruption in the availability of our information systems could adversely affect our operations and our results of operations. Our headquarters is currently located at a single location in Overland Park, Kansas. Our information systems and administrative and management processes are primarily provided to our regions and branches from this location, which could be disrupted if a catastrophic event, such as a tornado, power outage or act of terror, destroyed or severely damaged the headquarters. While we maintain redundant facilities in Texas with a third-party vendor, any of these catastrophic events could nonetheless adversely affect our operations and our results of operations. The concentration of our revenues and gross profits in certain states could adversely affect us. Our branches operate in 24 states. For the year ended December 31, 2007, revenues from our branches located in Missouri, California, Arizona, South Carolina and Kansas represented approximately 57% of our total revenues. Revenues from Missouri and California represented 24% and 13%, respectively, of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2007, gross profit from our branches located in Missouri, Arizona, California, Kansas, Illinois, New Mexico, South Carolina and Virginia represented approximately 82% of our total branch gross profit. Gross profit from Missouri and Arizona represented 31% and 13%, respectively, of our total branch gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2007. While we believe we have a diverse geographic presence, for the near term we expect that significant revenues and gross profit will continue to be generated by certain states, largely due to the currently prevailing economic, demographic, regulatory, competitive and other conditions in those states. Changes to prevailing economic, demographic, regulatory or any other conditions, including the legislative, regulatory or litigation risks discussed above, in the markets in which we operate could lead to a reduction in demand for our payday loans, a decline in our revenues or an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, any of which could result in a deterioration of our financial condition. The financial performance of our branches in our leading states has been affected from time to time by changes in laws or regulations in those states. A state may drop from our top five revenue or gross profit states merely as a result of changes in state laws or regulations and without a significant change in the number of branches in a state. This has previously occurred with Illinois and New Mexico, as described above under “Business – Locations.” We currently have a purported class action lawsuit pending against us in Missouri. See the additional discussion in Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” of this report. An adverse outcome in this matter could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. If they fluctuate in the future, the market price of our common stock could also fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future. If they do so, our quarterly revenues and operating results may be difficult to forecast. It is possible that our future quarterly results of operations will not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. This could cause a material drop in the market price of our common stock. 20 Table of Contents Our business will continue to be affected by a number of factors, including the various risk factors set forth in this section, any one of which could substantially affect our results of operations for a particular fiscal quarter. Our quarterly results of operations can vary due to: • fluctuations in payday loan demand; • fluctuations in our loan loss experience; • acceleration or deceleration of our branch growth rate; • fluctuations in our revenue growth; • changes in broad economic factors, such as energy prices, average hourly wage rates, inflation or bankruptcy; and • regulatory and legislative activity restricting our business. Media reports and public perception of payday loans as being predatory or abusive could adversely affect our business. Over the past few years, consumer advocacy groups and certain media reports have advocated governmental action to prohibit or severely restrict payday loans. The consumer groups and media reports typically focus on the cost to a consumer for this type of loan, which is higher than the interest typically charged by credit card issuers. This difference in credit cost is more significant if a consumer does not promptly repay the loan, but renews, or rolls over, that loan for one or more additional short-term periods. The consumer groups and media reports typically characterize these payday loans as predatory or abusive toward consumers. If this negative characterization of our payday loans becomes widely accepted by consumers, demand for our payday loans could significantly decrease, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Negative perception of our payday loans or other activities could also result in our industry being subject to more restrictive laws and regulations and greater exposure to litigation. If we lose key managers or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the members of our senior management, particularly Don Early, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Mary Lou Andersen, our Vice Chairman of the Board and Secretary, and Darrin J. Andersen, our President and Chief Operating Officer. We believe that our corporate culture and success are tied directly to the influence of Mr. Early and Ms. Andersen. Mr. Andersen has also been critical to our growth through acquisitions and new branch openings. Accordingly, we believe that the loss of the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business. Our continued growth will also depend upon our ability to attract and retain additional skilled management personnel. Competition for highly skilled and experienced management is intense and likely to continue and increase. To the extent that we are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer. 21 Table of Contents We lack product and business diversification. Accordingly, our future revenues and earnings are more susceptible to fluctuations than a more diversified company. Our primary business activity is offering and servicing payday loans. We also provide certain related services, such as check cashing, title loans, installment loans, credit services, money transfers and money orders, which accounted for approximately 14.5% of our revenues in 2007. If we are unable to maintain and grow the operating revenues from our payday loan business, our future revenues and earnings are not likely to grow and could decline. Our lack of product and business diversification could inhibit the opportunities for growth of our business, revenues and profits. Competition in the retail financial services industry is intense and could cause us to lose market share and revenues. We believe that the primary competitive factors in the payday loan industry are branch location and customer service. We face intense competition in the payday loan industry, and we believe that the payday lending market is becoming more competitive as this industry matures and begins to consolidate. The payday loan industry has low barriers to entry, and new competitors may enter the market easily. We currently compete with services, such as overdraft protection offered by traditional financial institutions, and with other payday loan and check cashing branches and other financial service entities and retail businesses that offer payday loans or other similar financial services, as well as a rapidly growing internet-based payday loan segment. Some of our competitors have larger and more established customer bases and substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline, thereby affecting our earnings and potential for growth. General economic conditions affect our loan losses, and accordingly, our results of operations could be adversely affected by a general economic slowdown. Provision for losses is one of our largest operating expenses, constituting 25.5% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, with payday loan losses constituting most of the losses. During each period, if a customer does not repay a payday loan when due and the check we present for payment is returned, all accrued fees, interest and outstanding principal are charged off as uncollectible. Any changes in economic factors that adversely affect our customers could result in a higher loan loss experience than anticipated, which could adversely affect our loan charge-offs and operating results. For example, we believe our loan losses increased during the second half of 2007 as a result of the turmoil in the sub-prime lending markets and its ripple effect throughout the United States economy. As another example, we believe that our loan loss experience in third quarter 2005 was adversely affected as a result of an increase in customer bankruptcies prior to a significant change in the bankruptcy laws in October 2005. Similar difficult financial and economic markets and conditions could increase our loan losses and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If estimates of our loan losses are not adequate to absorb actual losses, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses at levels to cover the estimated incurred losses in the collection of our loan portfolio outstanding at the end of each applicable period. Our methodology for estimating the allowance for loan loses utilizes a four-step approach, which reflects the short-term nature of the loan portfolio at each period-end, the historical collection experience in the month following each reporting period-end and any fluctuations in recent general economic conditions. Our allowance for loan losses was $4.4 million on December 31, 2007. Our allowance for loan losses is an estimate, and if actual loan losses are materially greater than our allowance for losses, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Because we maintain a significant supply of cash in our branches, we may experience losses due to employee error and theft. Because our business requires us to maintain a significant supply of cash in our branches, we are subject to the risk of cash shortages resulting from employee error and theft. We periodically experience employee error and theft in branches, which can significantly increase the operating losses of those branches for the period in which the employee error or theft is discovered. We self-insure for employee error or theft at the branch level. If our controls to limit our exposure to employee error and theft at the branch level and at our corporate headquarters do not operate effectively or are structured ineffectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend on loans and cash management services from banks to operate our business. If banks decide to stop making loans or providing cash management services to us, it could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on borrowings under our revolving credit facility to fund loans, capital expenditures and other needs. If our current or potential credit banks decide not to lend money to companies in our industry, our ability to borrow at competitive interest rates, our ability to grow our business and our cash availability could be adversely affected. Certain banks have notified us and other companies in the payday loan and check-cashing industries that they will no longer maintain bank accounts for these companies due to reputation risks and increased compliance costs of servicing money services businesses and other cash intensive industries. While none of our primary depository banks has requested that we close our bank accounts or placed other restrictions on how we use their services, if any of our larger current or future depository banks were to take such actions, we could face higher costs of managing our cash and limitations on our ability to grow our business, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regular turnover among our branch managers and branch-level employees makes it more difficult for us to operate our branches and increases our costs of operation. We experience high turnover among our branch managers and our branch-level employees. In 2007, we sustained approximately 42% turnover among our branch managers and approximately 153% turnover among our branch-level employees. Turnover interferes with implementation of branch operating strategies. High turnover in the future would perpetuate these operating pressures and increase our operating costs and could restrict our ability to grow. Additionally, high turnover creates challenges for us in maintaining high levels of employee awareness of and compliance with our internal procedures and external regulatory compliance requirements. From time to time, we utilize borrowings under our credit facility to fund our liquidity and capital needs, and these borrowings, which increase our leverage and reduce our financial flexibility, are subject to various restrictions and covenants. On December 7, 2007, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement with a syndicate of banks, which provides for a term loan of $50 million and a revolving line of credit in the aggregate principal amount of up to $45 million. The maximum borrowings under the amended credit facility may be increased to $120 million pursuant to bank approval in accordance with the terms set forth in the first amendment to the credit facility as of March 7, 2008. The terms of our amended and restated credit agreement include provisions that directly or indirectly affect our ability to repurchase our common stock on the open market or in negotiated transactions, our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock, and our ability to pursue acquisitions or other strategic ventures that would require us to borrow additional amounts. 23 Table of Contents The borrowings under the term loan were used to fund a $48.5 million special cash dividend to stockholders on December 27, 2007, which increased our leverage and reduced our financial flexibility. Because we typically use substantially all of our available cash generated from our operations to repay borrowings on our revolving credit facility on a current basis and to fund the scheduled amortization repayments under the term loan, we have limited cash balances and we expect that a substantial portion of our liquidity needs, including any amounts to pay any future cash dividends on our common stock, will be funded primarily from borrowings under our revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $20.5 million available for future borrowings under this facility. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, our borrowings are historically the lowest during the first calendar quarter and increase during the remainder of the year. If our existing sources of liquidity are insufficient to satisfy our financial needs, we may need to raise additional debt or equity in the future. If we are unable to do so, our ability to finance our current operations or future growth may be adversely affected. Our revolving credit facility contains restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business. Our revolving credit facility contains a number of significant covenants that could adversely affect our business. These covenants restrict our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • create liens; • effect mergers or consolidations; • make investments, acquisitions or dispositions; • pay dividends, repurchase stock or make other payments; • enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions; and • become subject to further restrictions on the creation of liens. The breach of any covenant or obligation in our revolving credit facility will result in a default. If there is an event of default under our revolving credit facility, the lenders under the revolving credit facility could cause all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, subject to applicable grace periods. This could trigger cross-defaults under our other existing or future debt instruments. As a result, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might further our growth strategy. If we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under our revolving credit facility, the lenders under that facility could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. Our obligations under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by each of our existing and future domestic subsidiaries. The borrowings under the revolving credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets and the assets of the subsidiary guarantors. In addition, borrowings under the revolving credit facility are secured by a pledge of substantially all of the capital stock, or similar equity interests, of the subsidiary guarantors. In the event of our insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the lenders under our revolving credit facility and any other existing or future debt of ours would be entitled to payment in full from our assets before distributions, if any, were made to our stockholders. 24 Table of Contents Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders may be able to exert significant control over our strategic direction. Our directors and executive officers own or have the power to vote in excess of 62% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2007. Don Early, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, owned approximately 41.1% directly and 1.3% indirectly of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2007. The election of each director requires a plurality of the shares voting for directors at a meeting of stockholders at which a quorum is present. Approval of a significant corporate transaction, such as a merger or consolidation of the company, a sale of all or substantially all of its assets or a dissolution of the company, requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Other actions requiring stockholder approval require the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares of common stock voting on the matter, provided that a quorum is present. A quorum requires the presence of a majority of the shares outstanding. As a result, one or more stockholders owning a relatively low percentage of the outstanding shares of our common stock could, acting together with Mr. Early, control all matters requiring our stockholders’ approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. As a result, this concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a change in control or change in board composition, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of the company or its assets and might reduce the market price of our common stock. Future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market could depress our stock price. As of December 31, 2007, our officers and directors held approximately 11.7 million shares of common stock, substantially all of which are “restricted securities” under the Securities Act and are eligible for future sale in the public market at prescribed times pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or otherwise. In addition, two of our largest stockholders, who own more than 50% of our outstanding shares, have demand registration rights, which permit them to require the company to register all or any part of those shares for resale by those stockholders. Sales of a significant number of these shares of common stock in the public market could reduce the market price of our common stock. The daily trading volume in our stock, since our initial public offering in July 2004, has been low, and is frequently under 50,000 shares traded in a day. Accordingly, the sale of even a relatively small number of shares by our officers or directors could reduce the market price of our common stock. The use of our common stock to fund acquisitions or to refinance debt incurred for acquisitions could dilute existing shares. We intend to consider opportunities to acquire payday loan companies or other businesses. We expect that future acquisitions, if any, could provide for consideration to be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares. If the consideration for an acquisition is paid in common stock, existing stockholders’ investments could be diluted. Furthermore, we may decide to incur debt to fund all or part of the costs of an acquisition. For example, we borrowed $16.3 million on our revolving credit facility to finance the acquisition of 51 branches in December 2006. We may issue shares of common stock to reduce acquisition-related debt or to provide funds for future acquisitions. The issuance of additional shares of common stock for those purposes would also dilute our existing stockholders’ investments. 25 Table of Contents Our anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of our company even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws as well as provisions of Kansas’s law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company, even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors without a stockholder vote to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We can redeem common stock from a stockholder who is or becomes a disqualified person. Federal and state laws and regulations applicable to providers of payday loans may now, or in the future, restrict direct or indirect ownership or control of providers of payday loan services by disqualified persons (such as convicted felons). Our articles of incorporation provide that we may redeem shares of our common stock to the extent deemed necessary or advisable, in the judgment of our board of directors, to prevent the loss, or to secure the reinstatement or renewal, of any license or permit from any governmental agency that is conditioned upon some or all of the holders of our common stock possessing prescribed qualifications or not possessing prescribed disqualifications. The redemption price will be the average of the daily closing sale prices per share of our common stock for the 30 consecutive trading days immediately prior to the redemption date fixed by our board of directors. At the discretion of our board of directors, the redemption price may be paid in cash, debt or equity securities or a combination of cash and debt or equity securities. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 