Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below and all of the other information included in this Form 10-K when deciding whether to invest in our common stock or otherwise evaluating our business. If any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition, or operating results could suffer. In this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Continued downturns in the financial sector, global financial markets, and global economy may adversely impact our business. The global financial crisis that began in 2007 became significantly worse throughout 2008. Because of problems associated with investments in subprime mortgage and other securities, many high-profile companies in the financial sector have had to restructure their operations. Several large firms have declared bankruptcy, been acquired, accepted funding from the U.S. government, or otherwise restructured their operations. In response to these events, the global financial markets have shown unusually high levels of volatility, which became increasingly severe as 2008 progressed. In response to the market upheaval, the mutual fund industry has experienced historically high levels of monthly net redemptions. Other investment vehicles have also suffered asset declines because of negative market performance and net redemptions. We believe the disruption in the financial markets continues to cause widespread investor uncertainty, and the market downturn has also led to spending cutbacks among asset management firms and other financial services companies, which make up a large percentage of our client base. Because of pressures related to the current crisis, institutional clients have become increasingly cautious and price-sensitive. Many of them have also implemented additional review processes for new contracts. Some institutional firms have also begun to provide certain services, particularly investment advisory services, in-house rather than hiring external service providers. We can’t predict how long this situation will persist or what its ultimate impact will be on our financial results. If financial markets around the world continue to experience negative performance and volatility, demand for our products and services may decline, and our revenue, operating income, and other financial results could suffer. The financial markets and many businesses operating in the financial services industry are highly volatile and are affected by factors, such as U.S. and foreign economic conditions and general trends in business and finance, which are beyond our control. 20 Competition could reduce our share of the investment research market and hurt our financial performance. We operate in a highly competitive industry, with many investment research providers competing for business from individual investors, financial advisors, and institutional clients. We compete with many different types of companies that vary in size, product scope, and media focus, including large and well-established distributors of financial information, such as Thomson Reuters; Standard & Poor’s, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies; Bloomberg; and Yahoo!. We compete with a variety of other companies in different areas of our business, which we discuss in greater detail in the Business Segments, Products, and Services section in Item 1—Business. Many of our competitors have larger customer bases and significantly greater resources than we do. This may allow them to respond more quickly to new technologies and changes in demand for products and services, devote greater resources to developing and promoting their services, and make more attractive offers to potential clients, subscribers, and strategic partners. Industry consolidation may also lead to more intense competition. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins, or loss of market share, any of which could hurt our business, operating results, or financial condition. If we do not maintain and increase the number of subscriptions and license agreements, our operating results could suffer. We generate a substantial portion of our revenue from subscriptions and license agreements. In general, our subscriptions are paid in advance. We may be obligated to refund a portion of prepaid subscription fees when a customer cancels. Cancellations may have a negative impact on our revenue and cash position. Our license agreements, which typically do not allow for cancellation, have terms ranging from one to three years. Our future success depends on our maintaining (through renewals) and increasing (through new subscriptions and license agreements) the number of customers who pay for our investment research and services. Further, if the market for our products and services develops more slowly than we expect, or declines, and the number of customers who pay for our services does not increase, or declines, our business, operating results, or financial condition could suffer. Certain products and services have historically made up a large percentage of our revenue base. Our business could suffer if sales of these products and services decline. In 2008, our five largest products based on revenue (Licensed Data, Investment Consulting, Morningstar Advisor Workstation, Morningstar.com, and Principia) accounted for approximately 58% of our consolidated revenue. We believe that sales of these products and services will continue to make up a substantial portion of our consolidated revenue for the foreseeable future. If we experience a significant decline in sales of any of these products for any reason, it would have a material adverse impact on our revenue and could harm our business. During 2008, one of our Investment Consulting clients informed us that it was not planning to renew its contract. Also, in the first quarter of 2009, we did not reach an agreement on renewal terms with another consulting client. Combined, these contracts represented about $17 million of revenue in 2008. We also have significant revenue from the independent equity research we’re providing under the terms of the Global Analyst Research Settlement, which accounted for approximately 4% of our consolidated revenue and 20% of revenue in the Individual segment in 2008. In 2003 and 2004, 12 leading Wall Street investment banks agreed to a $1.5 billion settlement (the Global Analyst Research Settlement) with the SEC, the New York Attorney General, and other securities regulators to resolve allegations of undue influence of investment banking interests on securities research. Approximately $450 million of the $1.5 billion in fines that the investment banks agreed to pay in the settlement has been designated for independent research over a period of five years, with the independent research to be provided by companies that are not engaged in the investment banking industry. Each firm involved in the settlement is required to provide research from at least three providers of independent research that are not engaged in the investment banking industry. We have entered into agreements with six of these banks to provide independent equity research under the terms of the settlement. The period during which investment banks are required to provide independent equity research to their clients will expire in July 2009. After the settlement period expires, the investment banks covered by it will no longer be required to provide independent investment research to their clients. We don’t know how much of this business we’ll retain after the settlement period expires, but we expect this research revenue to decline significantly. 21 Industry consolidation may adversely impact our competitive position, our relationships with our clients, and business results. Industry consolidation in the financial services sector has accelerated because of the market downturn. We can’t predict the impact on our business if one of our clients is acquired. We may lose business following an acquisition of one of our clients if we’re not able to continue providing services or expand our business with the combined organization. Any loss of business because of increased consolidation could have a negative effect on our revenue and profitability. The investment information industry is dominated by a few large players, and industry consolidation has increased in the past several years. If providers of data and investment analysis continue to consolidate, our competitive position may suffer. Our revenue from asset-based fees could be affected by continued market declines. Our fee-based asset management business has increased as a percentage of total revenue and become more important to our financial results. In 2008, revenue from asset-based fees made up approximately 13% of our consolidated revenue and a greater percentage of our operating income. The amount of revenue we earn from asset-based fees depends on the value of assets on which we provide advisory services, and the size of our asset base can increase or decrease along with trends in market performance. The value of assets under advisement may show substantial declines during periods of significant market volatility. The size of these portfolios can also be affected if net inflows into the portfolios on which we provide investment advisory services drop or these portfolios experience redemptions. If the level of assets on which we provide investment advisory services goes down, we expect that our fee-based revenue will show a corresponding decline. Our results could suffer if the mutual fund industry experiences slower growth. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from products and services related to mutual funds. The mutual fund industry has experienced substantial growth over the past 25 years. Mutual fund assets may not continue to expand at the same rate in future years. Continued downturns or volatility in the financial markets, increased investor interest in other investment vehicles, or a lack of investor confidence in mutual funds following the market-timing scandal that emerged in 2003 could reduce investor interest and investment activity in mutual funds. A slower growth rate in mutual fund assets could decrease demand for some of our products. Our reputation and business may be harmed by allegations made about possible conflicts of interest. We offer products and services to our institutional clients, which include banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, mutual fund companies, media outlets, and retirement plan providers and sponsors. Our institutional business generated revenue, before intersegment eliminations, of $276.8 million, or 55.1% of our consolidated revenue, in 2008, and $230.3 million, or 52.9% of our consolidated revenue, in 2007. We provide ratings, analyst research, and investment recommendations on mutual funds and other investment products offered and securities issued by our institutional clients. We also provide investment advisory and investment management services. The fact that our institutional clients pay us for certain products and services as well as the fact that in some cases we make investment recommendations within the framework of client constraints may create the perception that our ratings, research, and recommendations are not impartial. This perception may undermine the confidence of our customers and potential customers in our reputation as a provider of independent research. Any such loss of confidence or damage to our reputation could hurt our business. Our investment advisory operations may subject us to liability for any losses that result from a breach of our fiduciary duties. Our investment advisory operations involve fiduciary obligations that require us to act in the best interests of our clients. We may face liabilities for actual or claimed breaches of our fiduciary duties, particularly in areas where we provide retirement advice and managed retirement accounts. We may not be able to prevent clients from taking legal action against us for an actual or claimed breach of a fiduciary duty. The current market downturn may increase the likelihood of legal action and claims that we have breached our fiduciary duties. Because we provided investment advisory services on more than $66.2 billion in assets as of December 31, 2008, we could face substantial liabilities if we breach our fiduciary duties. In addition, we may face other legal liabilities based on the quality and outcome of our investment advisory recommendations, even in the absence of an actual or claimed breach of fiduciary duty. Changes in laws applicable to our investment advisory operations, compliance failures, or regulatory action could adversely affect our business. Our investment advisory operations are a growing part of our overall business. Our acquisition of Ibbotson Associates in 2006 substantially increased our business in this area. The securities laws and other laws that govern our activities as a registered investment advisor are complex. The activities of our investment advisory operations are primarily subject to provisions of the 22 Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the Advisers Act) and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). In addition, our investment management business is conducted through a broker-dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) and is subject to the rules of FINRA. We also provide investment advisory services in other areas around the world, and our operations may be subject to additional regulations in markets outside the United States. It is difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our business. The laws, rules, and regulations applicable to our business may change in the future, and we may not be able to comply with any such changes. If we fail to comply with any applicable law, rule, or regulation, we could be fined, sanctioned, or barred from providing investment advisory services in the future, which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. We could be subject to fines, penalties, or other sanctions as a result of investigations by the New York Attorney General’s Office and the Department of Labor related to some of the services Morningstar Associates, LLC provides. As we originally disclosed in 2004, the New York Attorney General’s Office and the Department of Labor are conducting separate investigations related to some of the products and services offered by Morningstar Associates, LLC. See Item 3—Legal Proceedings for a description of these matters. We cannot predict the scope, timing, or outcome of these matters, which may include the institution of administrative, civil, injunctive, or criminal proceedings, the imposition of fines and penalties, and other remedies and sanctions, any of which could lead to an adverse impact on our stock price, the inability to attract or retain key employees, and the loss of customers. We also cannot predict what impact, if any, these matters may have on our business, operating results, or financial condition. We have not established any reserves relating to these matters. Our operations outside of the United States are expanding and involve additional challenges that we may not be able to meet. Over the past three years, our operations outside of the United States have generated an increasing amount of revenue, expanding to $121.4 million in 2008 from $44.3 million in 2006. Our 2006 acquisition of Aspect Huntley in Australia, our 2007 acquisition of the fund data business from Standard & Poor’s, and our January 2008 acquisition of the Hemscott data, media, and investor relations businesses substantially increased our business operations in Europe, Australia, and other areas outside the United States. Our recent acquisitions of InvestData (Proprietary) Limited, Tenfore Systems Limited, and Fundamental Data Limited also expanded our international operations. There are risks inherent in doing business outside the United States, including challenges in reaching new markets because of established competitors and limited brand recognition; difficulties in staffing, managing, and integrating non-U.S. operations; difficulties in coordinating and sharing information globally; differences in laws and policies from country to country; exposure to varying legal standards, including intellectual property protection laws; and currency exchange rates and exchange controls. These risks could hamper our ability to expand around the world, which may hurt our financial performance and ability to grow. Our offshore data centers also involve additional risks. We now have approximately 470 programmers and data analysts working in our data and technology development center in Shenzhen, China. Over the past several years, we have been moving a significant percentage of our data collection and development operations to this location. Because China has a restrictive government under centralized control, we cannot predict the level of political and regulatory risk that may affect our operations. The concentration of development and data work carried out at this facility also involves operational risks for our network infrastructure. Any difficulties that we face in successfully maintaining our development center in China may harm our business and have a negative impact on the products and services we provide, particularly because of our increasing reliance on this facility. Following the Hemscott acquisition, we have approximately 200 employees who work at our data collection facility in New Delhi, India, which may also be subject to political and regulatory risk. Like the Shenzhen operation, this facility also involves operational risks for our network infrastructure. We do not currently hedge any of our currency exposure, which may adversely impact our financial results. As our non-U.S. revenue increases as a percentage of consolidated revenue, fluctuations in foreign currencies present a greater potential risk. To date, we have not engaged in currency hedging, and we do not currently have any positions in derivative instruments to hedge our currency risk. Our reported revenue could suffer if certain foreign currencies decline relative to the U.S. dollar, although the impact on operating income may be offset by an opposing currency impact on locally based operating expense. In addition, because we use the local currency of our subsidiaries as the functional currency, our financial results are affected by the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. 23 The availability of free or low-cost investment information could lead to lower demand for our products and adversely affect our financial results. Investment research and information relating to publicly traded companies and mutual funds is widely available for little or no cost from various sources, including the Internet and public libraries. Investors can also access information directly from publicly traded companies and mutual funds. The Interactive Data Electronic Applications (IDEA) database available through the SEC Web site provides real-time access to SEC filings, including annual, semi-annual, and quarterly reports. Many brokerage firms also provide financial and investment research to their clients. The widespread availability of free or low-cost investment information may make it difficult for us to maintain or increase the prices we charge for our publications and services and could lead to a lower demand for our products. A loss of a significant number of customers would hurt our financial results. Our failure to successfully integrate acquisitions could strain our resources. We’ve completed numerous acquisitions over the past three years, including six acquisitions in 2008. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully integrate the employees, product lines, business systems, and operations following any acquisition. We expect to continue making acquisitions and establishing investments and joint ventures as part of our long-term business strategy. Acquisitions, investments, and joint ventures involve a number of risks. They can be time-consuming and may divert management’s attention from day-to-day operations. Financing an acquisition could result in dilution from issuing equity securities, reduce our financial flexibility because of reductions in our cash balance, or result in a weaker balance sheet from incurring debt. Acquisitions might also result in losing key employees. We may fail to successfully complete an acquisition, investment, or joint venture. We may also fail to generate enough revenue or profits from an acquisition to earn a return on the associated purchase price. A prolonged outage of our database and network facilities could result in reduced revenue and the loss of customers. The success of our business depends upon our ability to deliver time-sensitive, up-to-date data and information. We rely on our computer equipment, database storage facilities, and other office equipment, which are mainly located in our Chicago headquarters or elsewhere in the Chicago area. Our operations and those of our suppliers and customers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, wars, Internet failures, computer viruses, and other events beyond our control, including disasters affecting Chicago. We maintain off-site back-up facilities for our database and network equipment, but these facilities could be subject to the same interruptions that may affect our headquarters. We’re not currently able to immediately switch over all of our systems to a back-up facility. If we experience a significant database or network facility outage, our business may be disrupted until we fully implement our back-up systems. Any losses, service disruption, or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. Our business relies heavily on electronic delivery systems and the Internet. Any failures or disruptions could result in reduced revenue and the loss of customers. Most of our products and services depend heavily on our electronic delivery systems and the Internet. Our ability to deliver information using the Internet may be impaired because of infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party Internet providers, or increased government regulation. If disruptions, failures, or slowdowns of our electronic delivery systems or the Internet occur, our ability to distribute our products and services effectively and to serve our customers may be impaired. We could face liability related to our storage of personal information about our users. Customers routinely input personal investment and financial information, including portfolio holdings and credit card information, on our Web sites. We could be subject to liability if we were to inappropriately disclose any user’s personal information or if third parties were able to penetrate our network security or otherwise gain access to any user’s name, address, portfolio holdings, or credit card information. Any such event could subject us to claims for unauthorized credit card purchases, impersonation or other similar fraud claims, or claims for other misuses of personal information, such as unauthorized marketing or unauthorized access to personal portfolio information. We could face liability for the information we publish, including information based on data we obtain from other parties. We may be subject to claims for securities law violations, defamation (including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information we publish. For example, investors may take legal action against us if they rely on published information that contains an error, or a company may claim that we have made a defamatory statement about it or its employees. We could also be subject to claims based upon the content that is accessible from our Web site through links to other Web sites. We rely on a variety of outside parties as the original sources for the information we use in our published data. These sources include securities exchanges, fund companies, and transfer agents. Accordingly, in addition to possible exposure for publishing incorrect information that results directly from our own errors, we could face liability based on inaccurate data provided to us by others. 24 Defending claims based on the information we publish could be expensive and time-consuming and could adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our future success depends on our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees, including our executive officers. We experience competition for analysts and other employees from financial institutions and financial services organizations. These organizations generally have greater resources than we do and therefore may be able to offer significantly more attractive compensation packages to potential employees. Competition for these employees is intense, and we may not be able to retain our existing employees or be able to recruit and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. Our future success also depends on the continued service of our executive officers, including Joe Mansueto, our chairman, chief executive officer, and controlling shareholder. The loss of one or more of our executive officers could hurt our business, operating results, or financial condition. We do not carry any life insurance on our executive officers. We do not have employment agreements or non-compete agreements in place with any of our executive officers. They may leave us and work for our competitors or start their own competing businesses. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate to safeguard our proprietary information. Further, effective trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our services. Our continued ability to market one or more of our products under their current names could be adversely affected in those jurisdictions where another person registers, or has a pre-existing registration on, one or more of them. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could harm our brand, devalue our proprietary content, and affect our ability to compete in the marketplace. Control by a principal shareholder could adversely affect our other shareholders. As of December 31, 2008, Joe Mansueto, our chairman and chief executive officer, owned approximately 57% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, he has the ability to control substantially all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation, or sale of our assets. He also has the ability to control our management and affairs. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control; impede a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving us; discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us; or result in actions that may be opposed by other shareholders. Moreover, because of Joe’s substantial ownership, we are a “controlled company” for purposes of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. This means that, if in the future we elect to be treated as a controlled company under the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, we will not be required by NASDAQ to have a majority of independent directors or to maintain compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees composed entirely of independent directors to continue to list our shares on NASDAQ. Fluctuations in our operating results may negatively impact our stock price. We believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnify the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. As a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a larger decline in operating income. A substantial portion of our operating expense is related to personnel costs, marketing programs, and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly. Our operating expense levels are based on our expectations for future revenue. If actual revenue falls below our expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, our operating results would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we do not provide earnings guidance or hold one-on-one meetings with institutional investors and research analysts. Because of this policy and limited analyst coverage on our stock, our stock price may be volatile. If our operating results or other operating metrics fail to meet the expectations of outside research analysts and investors, the market price of our common stock may decline. The future sale of shares of our common stock may negatively impact our stock price. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could fall. A reduction in ownership by Joe Mansueto or any other large shareholder could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. In addition, the average daily trading volume in our stock is relatively low. The lack of trading activity in our stock may lead to greater fluctuations in our stock price. Low trading volume may also make it difficult for shareholders to make transactions in a timely fashion. 25 Our shareholders may experience dilution in their ownership positions. In the past, we’ve granted options to employees as a significant part of their overall compensation package. In 2006 we began granting restricted stock units to our employees and non-employee directors. As of December 31, 2008, our employees and non-employee directors held options to acquire 4,053,358 shares of common stock, 3,825,044 of which were exercisable at a weighted average price of approximately $14.66 per share and 228,314 were not exercisable. As of December 31, 2008 there were 516,524 restricted stock units outstanding, the majority of which vest over a period of four years. Generally speaking, a share is issued when a restricted stock unit vests. Some holders have elected to defer when shares are issued and many holders satisfy tax withholding obligations by forfeiting the right to have some of their shares issued. To the extent that option holders exercise outstanding options to purchase common stock and shares are issued when restricted stock units vest, there will be further dilution. Future grants of stock options or restricted stock units may also result in dilution. We may raise additional funds through future sales of our common stock. Any such financing would result in additional dilution to our shareholders. Stock option exercises and other factors may create volatility in our cash flows. Our cash provided by financing activities primarily consists of proceeds from stock option exercises and excess tax benefits related to stock option exercises and vesting of restricted stock units. Excess tax benefits occur at the time a stock option is exercised if the intrinsic value of the option (the difference between the exercise price of the option and the fair value of our stock on the date of exercise) exceeds the fair value of the option at the time of grant. Similarly, excess tax benefits are generated upon vesting of restricted stock units when the market value of our common stock at vesting is greater than the grant price of the restricted stock units. These excess tax benefits reduce the cash we pay for income taxes in the year they are recognized. It is not possible to predict the timing of stock option exercises or the intrinsic value that will be achieved. Because of this uncertainty, there may be additional volatility in our cash flows from financing activities from year to year. 26 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved comments from the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 