1A. Risk FactorsYou should carefully consider the risks described below and all of the other information included in this Form 10-K when deciding whether to invest in our common stock or otherwise evaluating our business. If any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition, or operating results could suffer. In this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.Our investment advisory operations may subject us to liability for any losses that result from a breach of our fiduciary duties.Three of our subsidiaries, Ibbotson Associates, Inc., Morningstar Associates, LLC, and Morningstar Investment Services, Inc. are registered as investment advisors with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (Advisers Act). As registered investment advisors, these companies are subject to the requirements and regulations of the Advisers Act. Such requirements relate to, among other things, record-keeping, reporting, and standards of care, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. As registered investment advisors, all three subsidiaries are subject to on-site examination by the SEC.In addition, because these three subsidiaries provide investment advisory services to retirement plans and their participants, they may be acting as fiduciaries under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). As fiduciaries under ERISA, they have obligations to act in the best interest of their clients. They also have duties of loyalty and prudence, as well as duties to diversify investments and to follow plan documents to comply with the applicable portions of ERISA. Our subsidiaries outside the United States that have investment advisory operations are subject to similar requirements.23Table of ContentsWe may face liabilities for actual or claimed breaches of our fiduciary duties, particularly in areas where we provide retirement advice and managed retirement accounts. In some of our retirement contracts, we act as an ERISA fiduciary by, for example, selecting and monitoring a broad range of diversified plan options. As part of this service, we can construct and monitor the investment lineup, document our investment process, create an Investment Policy Statement, and furnish the plan with detailed quarterly investment and performance reports. We also provide a managed account service for retirement plan participants who elect to have their accounts managed by our programs. As of December 31, 2013, we had $31.7 billion in assets under management in our managed retirement accounts. We rely on automated investment technology for our retirement advice and managed retirement accounts services. The Wealth Forecasting Engine is our core advice and managed accounts engine that determines appropriate asset allocations for retirement plan participants and assigns individuals to portfolios. We also rely on automated portfolio construction tools. Problems could arise if these programs assigned retirement plan participants to the wrong portfolios, particularly if we failed to detect program errors over an extended period. We may not be able to prevent clients from taking legal action against us for an actual or claimed breach of a fiduciary duty. If we make an error, we may be subject to potentially large liabilities for make-whole payments and/or litigation. We cannot quantify the potential size of these liabilities with any level of precision. In addition, we may face other legal liabilities based on the quality and outcome of our investment advisory recommendations, even in the absence of an actual or claimed breach of fiduciary duty. In total, we provided investment advisory and management services on nearly $160 billion in assets as of December 31, 2013. We could face substantial liabilities related to our work on these assets. Failing to differentiate our products and continuously create innovative, proprietary research tools may harm our competitive position and business results.We attribute much of our company's success over the past 29 years to our ability to develop innovative, proprietary research tools, such as the Morningstar Rating, Morningstar Style Box, Ownership Zone, and Portfolio X-Ray. We believe these proprietary tools continue to provide us with a competitive advantage, but if tools similar to them become available through other channels, our competitive position and business results may suffer. Our competitive position and business results may also suffer if other companies are able to successfully introduce innovative, proprietary research tools that gain a wide following. We believe lower technology costs and the growth of open software platforms have lowered the barriers to entry for new competitors, making it easier for new players to enter the market. Smaller companies may be able to introduce new research tools that gain a wide following. If we fail to introduce innovative, proprietary research tools at the same rate as in the past, we may not generate enough enthusiasm with potential clients to win new business. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to successfully develop new product features and tools that differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors.Failing to respond to technological change, keep pace with new technology developments, or adopt a successful technology strategy may negatively affect our competitive position and business results.We believe the technology landscape has been changing at an accelerating rate over the past several years. Changes in technology are fundamentally changing the ways investors access data and content. Examples include the shift from local network to computing to cloud-based systems, the proliferation of wireless mobile devices, and rapid acceleration in the use of social media platforms. We are in the process of building the next-generation software architecture that will eventually underlie of our investment research platforms, but we have not yet incorporated this software in our products. While some changes in technology may offer opportunities for Morningstar, we cannot guarantee that we will successfully adapt our product offerings to meet evolving customer needs. We believe our history of rapid technological innovation and expertise in technology have historically given us a competitive advantage. As mentioned above, though, we believe that lower technology costs and growth in open software platforms have lowered barriers to entry for new competitors. Our competitors may also be able to introduce new technology more rapidly than we are to meet changing market needs. Our competitive position and business results may suffer if we fail to develop new technologies to meet client demands, or if we adopt a technology strategy that doesn't align with changes in the market.24Table of ContentsAn outage of our database and network facilities could result in reduced revenue and the loss of customers.The success of our business depends upon our ability to deliver time-sensitive, up-to-date data and information. We rely on our computer equipment, database storage facilities, and other network equipment, much of which is geographically concentrated in our Chicago headquarters and other backup locations in the United States. We also have extensive information systems outside the United States. Our mission-critical databases and networks are increasingly complex and interdependent. Many of our client contracts contain service-level agreements that require us to meet certain obligations for delivering time-sensitive, up-to-date data and information. We may not be able to meet these obligations in the event of failure or downtime in our information systems. Our operations and those of our suppliers and customers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, wars, Internet failures or disruptions, computer viruses, and other events beyond our control. Our database and network facilities may also be vulnerable to external attacks that misappropriate our data, corrupt our databases, or limit access to our information systems.We maintain off-site back-up facilities for our database and network equipment, but we cannot guarantee that these facilities will operate as expected during an interruption that affects our headquarters. There may be single points of failure that affect our core databases, data transfer interfaces, or storage area networks. We may not be able to fully recover data or information lost during a database or network facility outage. Any losses, service disruption, or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition.Our business relies heavily on electronic delivery systems and the Internet. Any failures or disruptions could result in reduced revenue and the loss of customers.Most of our products and services depend heavily on our electronic delivery systems and the Internet. Our ability to deliver information using the Internet may be impaired because of infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party Internet providers, malicious attacks, or other factors. If disruptions, failures, or slowdowns of our electronic delivery systems or the Internet occur, our ability to distribute our products and services effectively and to serve our customers may be impaired.We could face liabilities and/or damage to our reputation as a result of some of our currently pending litigation.From time to time, we are subject to legal or regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of our business. These include proceedings relating to aspects of our businesses that are specific to us and proceedings that are typical in the asset management and financial information businesses in which we operate.We are currently defendants in two cases that we describe in Item 3—Legal Proceedings of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts of damages. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome of any particular proceeding can never be predicted with certainty. An adverse litigation outcome could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition to its potential financial impact, litigation can have a significant adverse reputational impact. We depend to a large extent on our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services. Allegations of improper conduct made by private litigants or regulators, whether the ultimate outcome is favorable or unfavorable to us, as well as negative publicity and press speculation about us, whether valid or not, may harm our reputation, which may be damaging to our business.25Table of ContentsWe could face liability related to our storage of personal information about our users.Customers routinely enter personal investment and financial information, including portfolio holdings and credit card information, on our websites. We also handle an increasing volume of personally sensitive information through our Portfolio Management Service, Enterprise Data Management, managed retirement accounts, and other areas of our business. Contractual commitments to customers as well as laws and industry regulations related to data protection, system availability, and privacy require us to safeguard critical data. We are also required to take appropriate steps to safeguard credit card numbers, social security numbers, and other personally identifiable information. We may suffer malicious attacks seeking to penetrate our network and databases to gain access to personal data. We could be subject to liability if we were to inappropriately disclose any user's personal information or if third parties were able to penetrate our network security or otherwise gain access to any user's name, address, portfolio holdings, or credit card information.Downturns in the financial sector, global financial markets, and global economy may adversely impact our business.We believe ongoing economic weakness continues to cause uncertainty and pressure on consumer discretionary spending. The financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, as well as more recent financial and economic uncertainty, has led to spending cutbacks among asset management firms and other financial services companies, which make up a large percentage of our client base. Some institutional clients have also implemented additional review processes for new contracts or began to provide certain services, particularly investment advisory services, in-house rather than hiring outside service providers. Some institutional clients have also reduced the scope of their operations. For example, several large insurers withdrew from the variable annuity market in recent years, while others curtailed their new sales efforts. This has had a negative effect on the services we provide to institutional clients that offer variable annuities.In 2010 and 2011, rising government debt levels around the world as well as downgrades in sovereign debt issues for some European countries led to market fears about a potential crisis in global sovereign debt. Some European countries have been unable to successfully refinance their debts, leading European finance officials to take measures during 2010 and 2011 to stabilize financial conditions across Europe. While conditions in Europe have improved, many European countries have continued to experience weak economic growth. In addition, many companies in the financial services industry have been subject to increasing government regulation, which may increase their operating costs and cause them to reduce spending in other areas.In addition, if financial markets around the world experience negative performance and volatility, demand for our products and services may decline, and our revenue, operating income, and other financial results could suffer. Our business results may also be hurt by negative trends in Internet advertising sales. Our structured credit rating business is subject to volatility from trends in new issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities and other structured credits. The financial markets and many businesses operating in the financial services industry are highly volatile and are affected by factors, such as U.S. and foreign economic conditions and general trends in business and finance, that are beyond our control.Our revenue from asset-based fees may be adversely affected by market declines as well as the effect of cash outflows from portfolios that we help manage.In 2013, revenue from asset-based fees made up approximately 13% of our consolidated revenue and a greater percentage of our operating income. The amount of revenue we earn from asset-based fees depends on the value of assets on which we provide advisory services, and the size of our asset base can increase or decrease along with trends in market performance. The value of assets under advisement may show substantial declines during periods of significant market volatility. The size of these portfolios can also be affected if net inflows into the portfolios on which we provide investment advisory services drop or if these portfolios experience redemptions. If the level of assets on which we provide investment advisory services goes down, we expect our fee-based revenue to show a corresponding decline.26Table of ContentsFailing to maintain and protect our brand, independence, and reputation may harm our business. Our reputation and business may also be harmed by allegations made about possible conflicts of interest.We believe that independence is at the core of our business, and our reputation is our greatest corporate asset. We offer products and services to our institutional clients, which include banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, mutual fund companies, media outlets, and retirement plan providers and sponsors. Our institutional clients have generated a significant percentage of our consolidated revenue in recent years. We provide ratings, analyst research, and investment recommendations on mutual funds and other investment products offered and securities issued by our institutional clients. We also provide investment advisory and investment management services. The fact that our institutional clients pay us for certain products and services, as well as the fact that in some cases we make investment recommendations within the framework of client constraints, may create the perception that our ratings, research, and recommendations are not impartial.This perception may undermine the confidence of our customers and potential customers in our reputation as a provider of independent research. Any such loss of confidence or damage to our reputation could hurt our business.Any failure to uphold our high ethical standards and ensure that our customers have a consistently positive experience with us (either intentionally or inadvertently) could damage our reputation as an objective, honest, and credible source for investment research and information.Our reputation may also be harmed by factors outside of our control, such as news reports about our clients or adverse publicity about certain investment products.Changes in laws applicable to our investment advisory or credit rating operations, compliance failures, or regulatory action could adversely affect our business.Our investment advisory operations are a growing part of our overall business. The securities laws and other laws that govern our activities as a registered investment advisor are complex. The activities of our investment advisory operations are primarily subject to provisions of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the Advisers Act) and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). In addition, Morningstar Investment Services is a broker-dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) and is subject to the rules of FINRA. We also provide investment advisory services in other areas around the world, and our operations are subject to additional regulations in markets outside the United States. If we fail to establish required licenses or regulatory approvals for our investment advisory operations, we may be subject to fines or other events that could have a negative effect on our business. Over the past several years, we have also made significant investments in our credit rating business. We began publishing credit ratings and associated research on corporate debt issuers in 2009. Although our corporate credit rating business is not currently regulated as a Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization (NRSRO), credit rating and research providers have been under increasing regulatory scrutiny. We cannot predict the future impact of potential future regulatory changes on our corporate credit rating business.We also expanded our credit rating business operations with our May 2010 acquisition of Realpoint, LLC (now known as Morningstar Credit Ratings, LLC), an NRSRO that specializes in structured finance. As an NRSRO, Morningstar Credit Ratings is subject to various requirements and regulations under the Exchange Act relating to, among other things, record-keeping, reporting, governance, and conflicts of interest. As part of its NRSRO registration, Morningstar Credit Ratings is subject to annual examination by the SEC.It is difficult to predict the future effect of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our business. The laws, rules, and regulations applicable to our business may change in the future, and we may not be able to comply with any such changes. If we fail to comply with any applicable law, rule, or regulation, we could be fined, sanctioned, or barred from providing investment advisory or credit rating services in the future, which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition.27Table of ContentsCompetition could reduce our share of the investment research market and hurt our financial performance.We operate in a highly competitive industry, with many investment research providers competing for business from individual investors, financial advisors, and institutional clients. We compete with many different types of companies that vary in size, product scope, and media focus, including large and well-established distributors of financial information, such as Bloomberg; Standard & Poor's, a division of McGraw Hill Financial; and Thomson Reuters. We compete with a variety of other companies in different areas of our business, which we discuss in greater detail in the Major Products and Services section in Item 1—Business.Many of our competitors have larger customer bases and significantly greater resources than we do. This may allow them to respond more quickly to new technologies and changes in demand for products and services, devote greater resources to developing and promoting their services, and make more attractive offers to potential clients, subscribers, and strategic partners. They may also be able to offer better customer service and support. Industry consolidation may also lead to more intense competition. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins, or loss of market share, any of which could hurt our business, operating results, or financial condition.The investment information industry is dominated by a few large players, and industry consolidation has increased in the past several years. If providers of data and investment analysis continue to consolidate, our competitive position may suffer.Our results could suffer if the mutual fund industry continues to experience slower growth, or if actively managed equity funds continue to attract less investor attention.We generate a significant portion of our revenue from products and services related to mutual funds. The mutual fund industry has experienced substantial growth over the past 30 years, but suffered along with the market downturn in 2008 and early 2009. Since then, fund assets have increased, but at a slower rate than in previous years. Based on Morningstar's estimates for U.S. mutual fund asset flows, long-term open-end funds had positive net inflows of approximately $270 billion in 2013. A significant portion of our fund research has historically focused on equity-related funds. In addition, we are best-known for our data and analyst research on actively managed equity funds. Over the past several years, passively managed index funds have seen greater investor interest. This trend continued in 2013, as passively managed vehicles (both mutual funds and ETFs) had about $300 billion in net inflows, compared with $150 billion of net inflows for active products. Overall, we estimate that passively managed assets now account for more than one-fourth of combined mutual fund and ETF assets.Continued downturns or volatility in the financial markets, increased investor interest in other investment vehicles, or a lack of investor confidence could continue to reduce investor interest and investment activity. In addition, a continued lessening of investor interest in actively managed equity funds could decrease demand for our products.Our operations outside of the United States are expanding and involve additional challenges that we may not be able to meet.Our operations outside of the United States generated $197.5 million in revenue in 2013, or about 28% of our consolidated revenue. There are risks inherent in doing business outside the United States, including challenges in reaching new markets because of established competitors and limited brand recognition; difficulties in staffing, managing, and integrating non-U.S. operations; difficulties in coordinating and sharing information globally; differences in laws and policies from country to country; exposure to varying legal standards, including intellectual property protection laws; potential tax exposure related to transfer pricing and other issues; heightened risk of fraud and noncompliance; and currency exchange rates and exchange controls. These risks could hamper our ability to expand around the world, which may hurt our financial performance and ability to grow.As our non-U.S. revenue increases as a percentage of consolidated revenue, fluctuations in foreign currencies present a greater potential risk. We don't engage in currency hedging or have any positions in derivative instruments to hedge our currency risk. Our reported revenue could suffer if certain foreign currencies decline relative to the U.S. dollar, although the impact on operating income may be offset by an opposing currency impact on locally based operating expense. In addition, because we use the local currency of our subsidiaries as the functional currency, our financial results are affected by the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars.28Table of ContentsThe concentration of data and development work carried out at our offshore facilities may have a negative effect on our business operations, products, and services.We now have approximately 900 employees working in our data and technology development center in Shenzhen, China, or about one-fourth of our total workforce. Because China has a restrictive government under centralized control, we cannot predict the level of political and regulatory risk that may affect our operations. The concentration of development and data work carried out at this facility also involves operational risks for our network infrastructure. Any difficulties that we face in successfully maintaining our development center in China may harm our business and have a negative impact on the products and services we provide, particularly because we rely on employees in this facility to maintain and update our mutual fund database. We have approximately 360 employees who work at our data collection facility in Mumbai, India, which may also be subject to regulatory and political risk (including potential terrorist acts). Like the Shenzhen operation, these facilities also involve operational risks for our network infrastructure.We could face liability for the information we publish, including information based on data we obtain from other parties.We may be subject to claims for securities law violations, defamation (including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information we publish, including our research and ratings on corporate credit issuers. For example, investors may take legal action against us if they rely on published information that contains an error, or a company may claim that we have made a defamatory statement about it or its employees. We could also be subject to claims based on the content that is accessible from our website through links to other websites. We rely on a variety of outside parties as the original sources for the information we use in our published data. These sources include securities exchanges, fund companies, hedge funds, transfer agents, and other data providers. Accordingly, in addition to possible exposure for publishing incorrect information that results directly from our own errors, we could face liability based on inaccurate data provided to us by others. Defending claims based on the information we publish could be expensive and time-consuming and could adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition.Our future success depends on our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees.We experience competition for analysts and other employees from financial institutions and financial services organizations. These organizations generally have greater resources than we do and therefore may be able to offer significantly more attractive compensation packages to potential employees. Competition for these employees is intense, and we may not be able to retain our existing employees or be able to recruit and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future.Our future success also depends on the continued service of our executive officers, including Joe Mansueto, our chairman, chief executive officer, and controlling shareholder. Joe is heavily involved in our day-to-day operations, business strategy, and overall company direction. The loss of Joe or other executive officers could hurt our business, operating results, or financial condition. We do not have employment agreements, non-compete agreements, or life insurance policies in place with any of our executive officers. They may leave us and work for our competitors or start their own competing businesses.Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our brand and ability to compete effectively.The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate to safeguard our proprietary information. Further, effective trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our services. Our continued ability to market one or more of our products under their current names could be adversely affected in those jurisdictions where another person registers, or has a pre-existing registration on one or more of them. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could harm our brand, devalue our proprietary content, and affect our ability to compete in the marketplace.29Table of ContentsFrom time to time, we encounter jurisdictions in which one or more third parties have a pre-existing trademark registration in certain relevant international classes that may prevent us from registering our own marks in those jurisdictions. It is possible that our continued ability to use the “Morningstar” name or logo, either on a stand-alone basis or in association with certain products or services, could be compromised in those jurisdictions because of these pre-existing registrations. Similarly, from time to time, we encounter situations in certain jurisdictions where one or more third parties are already using the Morningstar name, either as part of a registered corporate name, a registered domain name or otherwise. Our ability to effectively market certain products and/or services in those locations could be adversely affected by these pre-existing usages.Control by a principal shareholder could adversely affect our other shareholders.As of December 31, 2013, Joe Mansueto, our chairman and chief executive officer, owned approximately 55% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, he has the ability to control substantially all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation, or sale of our assets. He also has the ability to control our management and affairs. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control; impede a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving Morningstar; discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the company; or result in actions that may be opposed by other shareholders.Fluctuations in our operating results may negatively affect our stock price.We believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnify the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. As a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a larger decline in operating income. A substantial portion of our operating expense is related to personnel costs, marketing programs, office leases, and other infrastructure spending, which generally cannot be adjusted quickly. Our operating expense levels are based on our expectations for future revenue. If actual revenue falls below our expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, our operating results would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we do not provide earnings guidance or hold one-on-one meetings with institutional investors and research analysts. Because of this policy and limited analyst coverage on our stock, our stock price may be volatile. If our operating results or other operating metrics fail to meet the expectations of outside research analysts and investors, the market price of our common stock may decline.The future sale of shares of our common stock may negatively affect our stock price.If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could fall. A reduction in ownership by Joe Mansueto or any other large shareholder could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. In addition, the average daily trading volume in our stock is relatively low. The lack of trading activity in our stock may lead to greater fluctuations in our stock price. Low trading volume may also make it difficult for shareholders to make transactions in a timely fashion.Our shareholders may experience dilution in their ownership positions.In the past, we've granted options to employees as a significant part of their overall compensation package. In 2006, we began granting restricted stock units to our employees and non-employee directors. As of December 31, 2013, our employees and non-employee directors held options to acquire 433,531 shares of common stock, 399,008 of which were exercisable at a weighted average price of approximately $27.91 per share. As of December 31, 2013, there were 696,684 restricted stock units outstanding, which have an average remaining vesting period of 33 months. Generally speaking, the company issues a share of stock when a restricted stock unit vests. To the extent that option holders exercise outstanding options to purchase common stock and we issue shares with the vesting of restricted stock units vest, there will be further dilution. Future grants of stock options or restricted stock units may also result in dilution. We may raise additional funds through future sales of our common stock. Any such financing would result in additional dilution to our shareholders.30Table of ContentsStock option exercises, share repurchases, and other factors may create volatility in our cash flows.Part of our cash provided by financing activities consists of proceeds from stock option exercises and excess tax benefits related to stock option exercises and vesting of restricted stock units. Excess tax benefits occur at the time a stock option is exercised if the intrinsic value of the option (the difference between the exercise price of the option and the fair value of our stock on the date of exercise) exceeds the fair value of the option at the time of grant. Similarly, excess tax benefits are generated upon vesting of restricted stock units when the market value of our common stock at vesting is greater than the grant price of the restricted stock units. These excess tax benefits reduce the cash we pay for income taxes in the year they are recognized. It is not possible to predict the timing of stock option exercises or the intrinsic value that will be realized. Because of this uncertainty, there may be additional volatility in our cash flows from financing activities.In addition, our board of directors has authorized a share repurchase program allowing for the repurchase of up to $700 million of our outstanding common stock, of which approximately $230 million remains available for future repurchases as of February 21, 2014. We may repurchase shares from time to time at prevailing market prices on the open market or in private transactions in amounts that management deems appropriate. Changes in the amount of repurchase activity from period to period may also cause volatility in our cash flows.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsWe do not have any unresolved comments from the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act.