Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of these certain risks and uncertainties were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: • Our results of operations could be significantly lower as a result of the severe downturn in the U.S. and global economy. Our results of operations are directly impacted by changes in the United States economy and global economic conditions. The significant downturn in the United States and global economies during the fourth quarter of 2008 lowered demand for our products. This lower demand reduced our revenues by approximately 8% for the three months ended December 31, 2008 compared to the prior year period and reduced our operating income. It is uncertain if economic conditions will deteriorate further, or when economic conditions will improve. A prolonged recession could result in lower earnings and reduced cash flow that, over time, could have a material adverse impact our ability to fund our operations and capital requirements. 19 Table of Contents • Current economic conditions and disruptions in the credit and financial markets could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recently, the financial markets experienced a period of unprecedented turmoil, including the bankruptcy, restructuring or sale of certain financial institutions and the intervention of the U.S. federal government. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, they may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition if our ability to borrow money from our existing lenders under our senior credit agreement to finance our operations were to be impaired. The crisis in the financial markets may also have a material adverse impact on the availability and cost of credit in the future. Our ability to pay our debt or refinance our obligations under our new senior credit agreement will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions. In addition, tightening of credit markets may have an adverse impact on our customers’ ability to finance the purchase of new commercial vehicles or our suppliers’ ability to provide us with raw materials, either of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. • Volatility and cyclicality in the commercial vehicle market could adversely affect us. Our profitability depends in part on the varying conditions in the commercial vehicle market. This market is subject to considerable volatility as it moves in response to cycles in the overall business environment and is particularly sensitive to the industrial sector, which generates a significant portion of the freight tonnage hauled. Sales of commercial vehicles have historically been cyclical, with demand affected by such economic factors as industrial production, construction levels, demand for consumer durable goods, interest rates and fuel costs. For example, North American commercial vehicle sales and production experienced a downturn from 2000 to 2003 due to a confluence of events that included a weak economy, an oversupply of new and used vehicle inventory and lower spending on commercial vehicles and equipment. In addition, North American commercial vehicle sales and production experienced a downturn during 2007 and 2008 as a result of pre-orders in 2006 in anticipation of the new EPA emission standards becoming effective in 2007 and general weakness in the North American economy and corresponding decline in the need for commercial vehicles to haul freight tonnage in North America, among other factors. These downturns had a material adverse effect on our business during the same periods. We cannot provide any assurance as to the length or ultimate level of the recovery of the current decline. We also cannot predict that the industry will follow past cyclical patterns that might include a strong 2009 pre-order in advance of new emissions standards set to take place in 2010. If unit production of class 8 heavy trucks declines further in 2009, it will continue to adversely affect our business and results of operations. • Our profitability could be adversely affected if the actual production volumes for our customers’ vehicles are significantly lower than expected. We incur costs and make capital expenditures based upon estimates of production volumes for our customers’ vehicles. While we attempt to establish a price for our components and systems that will compensate for variances in production volumes, if the actual production of these vehicles is significantly less than anticipated, our gross margin on these products would be adversely affected. We enter into agreements with our customers at the beginning of a given platform’s life to supply products for that platform. Once we enter into such agreements, fulfillment of our purchasing requirements is our obligation for the entire production life of the platform, with terms ranging from five to seven years, and we have no provisions to terminate such contracts. We may become committed to supply products to our customers at selling prices that are not sufficient to cover the direct cost to produce such products. We cannot predict our customers’ demands for our products either in the aggregate or for particular reporting periods. If customers representing a significant amount of our revenues were to purchase materially lower volumes than expected, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. • Our major OEM customers may exert significant influence over us. The commercial vehicle component supply industry has traditionally been highly fragmented and serves a limited number of large OEMs. As a result, OEMs have historically had a significant amount of leverage over their outside suppliers. Our contracts with major OEM customers generally provide for an annual productivity cost reduction. Historically, cost reductions through product design changes, increased productivity and similar programs with our suppliers have generally offset these customer-imposed productivity cost reduction 20 Table of Contents requirements. However, if we are unable to generate sufficient production cost savings in the future to offset price reductions, our gross margin and profitability would be adversely affected. In addition, changes in OEMs’ purchasing policies or payment practices could have an adverse effect on our business. • We may be unable to successfully implement our business strategy and, as a result, our businesses and financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to achieve our business and financial objectives is subject to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For example, we may not be successful in implementing our strategy if unforeseen factors emerge that diminish the expected growth in the commercial vehicle markets we supply, or we experience increased pressure on our margins. In addition, we may not succeed in integrating strategic acquisitions and our pursuit of additional strategic acquisitions may lead to resource constraints which could have a negative impact on our ability to meet customers’ demands, thereby adversely affecting our relationships with those customers. As a result of such business or competitive factors, we may decide to alter or discontinue aspects of our business strategy and may adopt alternative or additional strategies. Any failure to successfully implement our business strategy could adversely affect our business, results of operations and growth potential. Developing product innovations has been and will continue to be a significant part of our business strategy. We believe that it is important that we continue to meet our customers’ demands for product innovation, improvement and enhancement, including the continued development of new-generation products, design improvements and innovations that improve the quality and efficiency of our products. However, such development will require us to continue to invest in research and development and sales and marketing. In the future, we may not have sufficient resources to make such necessary investments, or we may be unable to make the technological advances necessary to carry out product innovations sufficient to meet our customers’ demands. We are also subject to the risks generally associated with product development, including lack of market acceptance, delays in product development and failure of products to operate properly. We may, as a result of these factors, be unable to meaningfully focus on product innovation as a strategy and may therefore be unable to meet our customers’ demands for product innovation. • If we are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, it could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Numerous raw materials are used in the manufacture of our products. Steel, aluminum, petroleum-based products, copper, resin, foam, fabrics, wire and wire components account for the most significant portion of our raw material costs. Although we currently maintain alternative sources for raw materials, our business is subject to the risk of price increases and periodic delays in delivery. For example, we are currently being assessed surcharges as well as price increases on certain purchases of steel, copper and other raw materials. If we are unable to purchase certain raw materials required for our operations for a significant period of time, our operations would be disrupted, and our results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to pass on the increased costs of raw materials to our customers, this could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. • We may be unable to complete additional strategic acquisitions or we may encounter unforeseen difficulties in integrating acquisitions. We may pursue additional acquisition targets that will allow us to continue to expand into new geographic markets, add new customers, provide new product, manufacturing and service capabilities and increase penetration with existing customers. However, we expect to face competition for acquisition candidates, which may limit the number of our acquisition opportunities and may lead to higher acquisition prices. Moreover, acquisitions of businesses may require additional debt financing, resulting in additional leverage. The covenants in the agreement governing our new revolving credit facility may further limit our ability to complete acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will find attractive acquisition candidates or successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing business. If we fail to complete additional acquisitions, we may have difficulty competing with more thoroughly integrated competitors and our results of operations could be adversely affected. To the extent that we do complete additional acquisitions, if the expected synergies from such acquisitions do not materialize or we fail to successfully integrate such new businesses into our existing businesses, our results of operations could also be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents • We may be adversely impacted by labor strikes, work stoppages and other matters. The hourly workforces at our Norwalk and Shadyside, Ohio facilities and Mexico operations are unionized. The unionized employees at these facilities represented approximately 48% of our employees in our North American operations as of December 31, 2008. We have experienced limited unionization efforts at certain of our other North American facilities from time to time. In addition, 58% of our employees at our Europe and Asia operations are represented by a shop steward committee, which may seek to limit our flexibility in our relationship with these employees. We cannot assure you that we will not encounter future unionization efforts or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees. Many of our OEM customers and their suppliers also have unionized work forces. Work stoppages or slow-downs experienced by OEMs or their other suppliers could result in slow-downs or closures of assembly plants where our products are included in assembled commercial vehicles. In the event that one or more of our customers or their suppliers experience a material work stoppage, such work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our business. • Our businesses are subject to statutory environmental and safety regulations in multiple jurisdictions, and the impact of any changes in regulation and/or the violation of any applicable laws and regulations by our businesses could result in a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to foreign, federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment and occupational health and safety, including laws regulating air emissions, wastewater discharges, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the soil, ground or air; and the health and safety of our colleagues. We are also required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. We cannot assure you that we are, or have been, in complete compliance with such environment and safety laws, regulations and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. In some instances, such a fine or sanction could have a material and adverse effect on us. The environmental laws to which we are subject have become more stringent over time, and we could incur material expenses in the future to comply with environmental laws. We are also subject to laws imposing liability for the cleanup of contaminated property. Under these laws, we could be held liable for costs and damages relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third party sites to which we sent waste containing hazardous substances. The amount of such liability could be material. Several of our facilities are either certified as, or are in the process of being certified as ISO 9001, 14000, 14001 or TS16949 (the international environmental management standard) compliant or are developing similar environmental management systems. Although we have made, and will continue to make, capital expenditures to implement such environmental programs and comply with environmental requirements, we do not expect to make material capital expenditures for environmental controls in 2009 or 2010. The environmental laws to which we are subject have become more stringent over time, and we could incur material costs or expenses in the future to comply with environmental laws. Certain of our operations generate hazardous substances and wastes. If a release of such substances or wastes occurs at or from our properties, or at or from any offsite disposal location to which substances or wastes from our current or former operations were taken, or if contamination is discovered at any of our current or former properties, we may be held liable for the costs of cleanup and for any other response by governmental authorities or private parties, together with any associated fines, penalties or damages. In most jurisdictions, this liability would arise whether or not we had complied with environmental laws governing the handling of hazardous substances or wastes. • We may be adversely affected by the impact of government regulations on our OEM customers. Although the products we manufacture and supply to commercial vehicle OEMs are not subject to significant government regulation, our business is indirectly impacted by the extensive governmental regulation applicable to commercial vehicle OEMs. These regulations primarily relate to emissions and noise standards imposed by the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), state regulatory agencies, such as the California Air Resources Board (“CARB”), and other regulatory agencies around the world. Commercial vehicle OEMs are also subject to the 22 Table of Contents National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act and Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards promulgated by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Changes in emission standards and other proposed governmental regulations could impact the demand for commercial vehicles and, as a result, indirectly impact our operations. For example, new emission standards governing Heavy-duty (Class 8) diesel engines that went into effect in the United States on October 1, 2002 and January 1, 2007 resulted in significant purchases of new trucks by fleet operators prior to such date and reduced short term demand for such trucks in periods immediately following such date. New emission standards for truck engines used in Class 5 to 8 trucks imposed by the EPA and CARB are scheduled to become effective in 2010. To the extent that current or future governmental regulation has a negative impact on the demand for commercial vehicles, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. • Our customer base is concentrated and the loss of business from a major customer or the discontinuation of particular commercial vehicle platforms could reduce our revenues. Sales to International, PACCAR, Caterpillar, Daimler Trucks and Volvo/Mack accounted for approximately 15%, 12%, 11%, 11% and 10%, respectively, of our revenue in 2008, and our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 72% of our revenue in 2008. The loss of any of our largest customers or the loss of significant business from any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even though we may be selected as the supplier of a product by an OEM for a particular vehicle, our OEM customers issue blanket purchase orders which generally provide for the supply of that customer’s annual requirements for that vehicle, rather than for a specific number of our products. If the OEM’s requirements are less than estimated, the number of products we sell to that OEM will be accordingly reduced. In addition, the OEM may terminate its purchase orders with us at any time. • Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We have operations in Europe, China, Australia and Mexico, which accounted for approximately 26% of our revenues in 2008. As a result, we generate a significant portion of our sales and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. To the extent that we are unable to match revenues received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations in any such currency could have an adverse effect on our financial results. • We are subject to certain risks associated with our foreign operations. We have operations in Europe, China, Australia and Mexico, which accounted for approximately 26%, 23% and 13% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. There are certain risks inherent in our international business activities including, but not limited to: • the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • foreign customers, who may have longer payment cycles than customers in the United States; • tax rates in certain foreign countries, which may exceed those in the United States and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions, including restrictions on repatriation; • intellectual property protection difficulties; • general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, which may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries; • the difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries; and • complications in complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, which may conflict with United States law. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will be dependent, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with foreign operations. We cannot assure you 23 Table of Contents that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or our business, financial condition or results of operations as a whole. • Our inability to compete effectively in the highly competitive commercial vehicle component supply industry could result in lower prices for our products, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. The commercial vehicle component supply industry is highly competitive. Our products primarily compete on the basis of price, breadth of product offerings, product quality, technical expertise and development capability, product delivery and product service. Increased competition may lead to price reductions resulting in reduced gross margins and loss of market share. Current and future competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with others, foresee the course of market development more accurately than we do, develop products that are superior to our products, produce similar products at lower cost than we can or adapt more quickly to new technologies, industry or customer requirements. By doing so, they may enhance their ability to meet the needs of our customers or potential future customers. These developments could limit our ability to obtain revenues from new customers and to maintain existing revenues from our customer base. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors and the failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. • Our products may be rendered less attractive by changes in competitive technologies. Changes in competitive technologies may render certain of our products less attractive. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis will be a significant factor in our ability to remain competitive. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve the technological advances that may be necessary for us to remain competitive. We are also subject to the risks generally associated with new product introductions and applications, including lack of market acceptance, delays in product development and failure to operate properly. • If we are unable to recruit or retain skilled personnel, or if we lose the services of any of our key management personnel, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, train, integrate and retain highly skilled personnel. Competition for these employees is intense. We may not be able to retain our current key employees or attract, train, integrate or retain other highly skilled personnel in the future. Our future success also depends in large part on the continued service of key management personnel, particularly our key executive officers. If we lose the services of one or more of these individuals or other key personnel, or if we are unable to attract, train, integrate and retain the highly skilled personnel we need, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. • We have only limited protection for our proprietary rights in our intellectual property, which makes it difficult to prevent third parties from infringing upon our rights. Our success depends to a certain degree on our ability to protect our intellectual property and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. While we have been issued patents and have registered trademarks with respect to many of our products, our competitors could independently develop similar or superior products or technologies, duplicate our designs, trademarks, processes or other intellectual property or design around any processes or designs on which we have or may obtain patents or trademark protection. In addition, it is possible that third parties may have or acquire licenses for other technology or designs that we may use or desire to use, so that we may need to acquire licenses to, or to contest the validity of, such patents or trademarks of third parties. Such licenses may not be made available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and we may not prevail in contesting the validity of third party rights. In addition to patent and trademark protection, we also protect trade secrets, know-how and other confidential information against unauthorized use by others or disclosure by persons who have access to them, such as our employees, through contractual arrangements. These arrangements may not provide meaningful protection for our 24 Table of Contents trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our revenues could be materially adversely affected. • Our products may be susceptible to claims by third parties that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights. As the number of products in our target markets increases and the functionality of these products further overlaps, we may become increasingly subject to claims by a third party that our technology infringes such party’s proprietary rights. Regardless of their merit, any such claims could be time consuming and expensive to defend, may divert management’s attention and resources, could cause product shipment delays and could require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements. If successful, a claim of infringement against us and our inability to license the infringed or similar technology and/or product could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. • Our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market if the closing price of our common stock is not maintained at $1.00 per share or higher. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market. In order to maintain that listing, we are required to satisfy various minimum financial and market related requirements, including, among others, maintaining a $1.00 per share minimum closing bid price for our common stock. In response to current market conditions, NASDAQ has temporarily suspended the enforcement rules requiring the minimum $1.00 closing bid price through April 19, 2009. Our common stock is currently trading below $1.00 per share. If the closing bid price of our common stock continues to fail to meet NASDAQ’s minimum closing bid price requirement for at least 30 consecutive trading days after April 19, 2009, or such later date to which NASDAQ may extend its suspension of this requirement, NASDAQ may make a determination to delist our common stock. Any delisting could adversely affect our ability to sell our common stock, and the market price of our common stock could decrease. A delisting could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and/or result in the loss of confidence by investors, customers and employees. • The market price of our common stock has declined substantially in recent months and may continue to be extremely volatile. Our stock price has fluctuated since our initial public offering in August 2004. The trading price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, including foreign currency exchange fluctuations, the gain or loss of significant orders, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, general conditions in the commercial vehicle industry and other events or factors. In addition, the equity markets in general have recently experienced significant disruptions which have caused substantial volatility in the market price for many companies in industries similar or related to that of ours and which have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. The market price for shares of our common stock has declined substantially in recent months and could decline further if our future results of operations fail to meet or exceed the expectations of market analysis and investors or current economic or market conditions persist or worsen. • Our operating results, revenues and expenses may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. For a number of reasons, including but not limited to, those described below, our operating results, revenues and expenses have in the past varied and may in the future vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year. These fluctuations could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Fluctuations in Quarterly or Annual Operating Results. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of: • the size, timing, volume and execution of significant orders and shipments; • changes in the terms of our sales contracts; • the timing of new product announcements; 25 Table of Contents • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • market acceptance of new and enhanced products; • the length of our sales cycles; • changes in our operating expenses; • personnel changes; • new business acquisitions; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and • seasonal factors. Limited Ability to Adjust Expenses. We base our operating expense budgets primarily on expected revenue trends. Certain of our expenses are relatively fixed and as such we may be unable to adjust expenses quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any shortfall in revenue may cause significant variation in operating results in any quarter or year. Based on the above factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. It is possible that in one or more future quarters or years, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock may be adversely affected. • We may be subject to product liability claims, recalls or warranty claims, which could be expensive, damage our reputation and result in a diversion of management resources. As a supplier of products and systems to commercial vehicle OEMs, we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that our products, or the equipment into which our products are incorporated, malfunction and result in personal injury or death. Product liability claims could result in significant losses as a result of expenses incurred in defending claims or the award of damages. In addition, we may be required to participate in recalls involving systems or components sold by us if any prove to be defective, or we may voluntarily initiate a recall or make payments related to such claims as a result of various industry or business practices or the need to maintain good customer relationships. Such a recall would result in a diversion of management resources. While we do maintain product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that it will be sufficient to cover all product liability claims, that such claims will not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that such insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any product liability claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Moreover, we warrant the workmanship and materials of many of our products under limited warranties and have entered into warranty agreements with certain OEMs that warranty certain of our products in the hands of these OEMs’ customers, in some cases for as long as six years. Accordingly, we are subject to risk of warranty claims in the event that our products do not conform to our customers’ specifications or, in some cases in the event that our products do not conform with their customers’ expectations. It is possible for warranty claims to result in costly product recalls, significant repair costs and damage to our reputation, all of which would adversely affect our results of operations. • Equipment failures, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss at any of our facilities could lead to production or service curtailments or shutdowns. We manufacture or assemble our products at facilities in North America, Europe, China and Australia. An interruption in production or service capabilities at any of these facilities as a result of equipment failure or other reasons could result in our inability to produce our products, which could reduce our net revenues and earnings for the affected period. In the event of a stoppage in production at any of our facilities, even if only temporary, or if we experience delays as a result of events that are beyond our control, delivery times to our customers could be severely affected. Any significant delay in deliveries to our customers could lead to increased returns or cancellations and cause us to lose future revenues. Our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated 26 Table of Contents events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. We may experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failure, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. • The agreement governing our new revolving credit facility contains financial covenants, and that agreement and the indenture governing the 8.0% senior notes due 2013 contain other covenants that may restrict our current and future operations. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, our business, results of operations and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. We entered into a loan and security agreement on January 7, 2009 (the “Loan and Security Agreement”) providing for a new revolving credit facility that replaced our prior revolving credit facility. Under the Loan and Security Agreement, we are required to comply with a minimum operating performance covenant, as described in more detail under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Debt and Credit Facilities — Loan and Security Agreement.” On March 12, 2009, we entered into a first amendment to the Loan and Security Agreement to provide us with relief under this covenant in 2009 and to make certain other changes, including an increase in the applicable margin for borrowings, capital expenditure limitations for 2009 and a temporary decrease in domestic availability. We continue to operate in a challenging economic environment, and our ability to comply with the new covenants in the Loan and Security Agreement may be affected in the future by economic or business conditions beyond our control. If we are not in compliance with these covenants and we are unable to obtain necessary waivers or amendments from the lender, we would be precluded from borrowing under the Loan and Security Agreement. If we are unable to borrow under the Loan and Security Agreement, we will need to meet our capital requirements using other sources. Due to current economic conditions, alternative sources of liquidity may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, if we do not comply with the financial or other covenants in the Loan and Security Agreement, the lender could declare an event of default under the Loan and Security Agreement, and our indebtedness thereunder could be declared immediately due and payable, which would also result in an event of default under the 8% senior notes due 2013. Any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, the Loan and Security Agreement and the indenture governing the 8.0% senior notes due 2013 contain covenants that, among other things, restricts our ability to: • incur liens; • incur or assume additional debt or guarantees or issue preferred stock; • pay dividends, or make redemptions and repurchases, with respect to capital stock; • prepay, or make redemptions and repurchases of, subordinated debt; • make loans and investments; • make capital expenditures; • engage in mergers, acquisitions, asset sales, sale/leaseback transactions and transactions with affiliates; • change the business conducted by us or our subsidiaries; and • amend the terms of subordinated debt. These covenants could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. • Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and make it more difficult to implement our business strategy. The aggregate amount of our outstanding indebtedness was $164.9 million as of December 31, 2008. Our level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness, including the notes. Our indebtedness, 27 Table of Contents combined with our lease and other financial obligations and contractual commitments could have other important consequences to you as a shareholder. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, including the notes, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the indenture governing the notes and the agreements governing such other indebtedness; • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes. Any of the above listed factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. • Our inability to successfully execute any planned cost reductions, restructuring initiatives or the achievement of operational efficiencies could result in the incurrence of additional costs and expenses that could adversely affect our reported earnings. As part of our business strategy, we continuously seek ways to lower costs, improve manufacturing efficiencies and increase productivity and intend to apply this strategy to those operations acquired through acquisitions. We may be unsuccessful in achieving these objectives which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may incur restructuring charges in the future and such charges could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In February 2009, we announced a restructuring plan that includes a 15% reduction in salaried workforce and the closure of five of our smaller manufacturing warehousing and assembly facilities. We estimate we will record charges incurred in connection with the restructuring of approximately $2.5 million, consisting of approximately $1.5 million of severance costs and $1.0 million of facility closure costs. We estimate that all of the restructuring charges will be incurred as future cash expenditures, of which approximately $2.2 million is expected to be incurred in 2009 and approximately $0.3 million is expected to be incurred in 2010. We expect to substantially complete the restructuring by April 2009, but we may not be successful in reducing our costs within the expected time frame or at all. • Our earnings may be adversely affected by changes to the carrying values of our tangible and intangible assets as a result of recording any impairment charges deemed necessary in conjunction with the execution of our periodic asset impairment assessment and testing policy. We are required to perform impairment tests annually or at any time when events occur that could affect the value of our assets. Significant and unanticipated changes in circumstances, such as the general economic environment, changes or downturns in our industry as a whole, termination of any of our customer contracts, restructuring efforts and general workforce reductions, may result in a charge for impairment that can materially and adversely affect our reported net income and our stockholders’ equity. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we determined that the significant declines in economic and industry conditions and the decline in our stock price were impairment indicators. As a result, we recorded impairments of approximately $144.7 million of goodwill and approximately $62.8 million of intangible assets relating to our customer relationships. At December 31, 2008, we had other intangible assets of approximately $34.6 million. 28 Table of Contents We perform our annual indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment analysis in the second quarter of our fiscal year. If macroeconomic conditions deteriorate further in 2009, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in the future. We are also required under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment whenever events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in a period in which any impairment of our intangible assets is determined. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 