Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. Risks Relating to Our Industry A global economic downturn may result in reduced demand for our products and adversely affect our profitability. In recent years, difficulties affecting the global financial sectors, adverse conditions and volatility in the worldwide credit and financial markets, fluctuations in oil and commodity prices and the general weakness of the global economy have increased the uncertainty of global economic prospects in general and have adversely affected the global and Korean economies. The recent global economic downturn has adversely affected demand for consumer products manufactured by our customers in Korea and overseas, including televisions, notebook computers, desktop monitors and mobile and other application products utilizing TFT-LCD panels, which has in turn led them to reduce or plan reductions of their production beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008. Partly in response to such weak demand, we reduced our TFT-LCD production from July 2008 to February 2009. Although demand for our products increased in the second half of 2009 and, despite a decrease in the second half of 2010, generally remained strong in 2010, we cannot provide any assurance that demand for our products will not decrease again in the future due to another such economic downturn which may adversely affect our profitability. We may decide to adjust our TFT-LCD production in the future subject to market demand for our products, the production outlook of the global TFT-LCD industry and global economic conditions in general. Any decline in demand for TFT-LCD products may adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Our industry continues to experience steady declines in the average selling prices of display panels irrespective of cyclical fluctuations in the industry, and our margins would be adversely impacted if prices decrease faster than we are able to reduce our costs. The average selling prices of display panels have declined in general and are expected to continually decline with time irrespective of industry-wide cyclical fluctuations as a result of, among other factors, technological advancements and cost reductions. Although we may be able to take advantage of the higher selling prices typically associated with new products and technologies when they are first introduced in the market, such prices decline over time, and in certain cases, very rapidly, as a result of market competition or otherwise. If we are unable to effectively anticipate and counter the price erosion that accompanies our products, or if the average selling prices of our display panels decrease faster than the speed at which we are able to reduce our manufacturing costs, our gross margins would decrease and our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive environment and we may not be able to sustain our current market position. The TFT-LCD industry is highly competitive. We have experienced pressure on the prices and margins of our major products due largely to additional industry capacity from panel makers in Korea, Taiwan, China and Japan. Our main competitors in the industry include Samsung Electronics (including the joint venture formed by Samsung Electronics and Sony), Samsung Mobile Display, Infovision, Hydis Technologies, AU Optronics, Chimei Innolux, Chunghwa Picture Tubes, HannStar, SAVIC, BOE-OT, Sharp, Hitachi, TMDisplay, Mitsubishi and IPS-Alpha. Some of our competitors may currently, or at some point in the future, have greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, research and development or technological resources than we do. In addition, our competitors may be able to manufacture panels on a larger scale or with greater cost efficiencies than we do and we anticipate increases in production capacity in the future by other TFT-LCD manufacturers. Any price erosion resulting from strong global competition or additional industry capacity may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents In addition, industry consolidation among our competitors may result in increased competition as the entities emerging from such consolidation may have greater financial, manufacturing, research and development and other resources than we do, especially if such mergers or consolidations are sponsored by a government entity. Increased competition resulting from such mergers or consolidations may lead to decreased margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We and our competitors each seek to establish our own products as the industry standards. For example, in the growing large-size television panel market, we currently manufacture primarily 32-inch, 37-inch, 42-inch, 47-inch and 55-inch television panels. Other TFT-LCD manufacturers produce competitive large-size television panels in slightly different dimensions. If our competitors’ panels become the standard market size, we may lose market share, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to compete successfully also depends on factors both within and outside our control, including product pricing, performance and reliability, our relationship with customers, successful and timely investment and product development, success or failure of our end-brand customers in marketing their brands and products, component and raw material supply costs, and general economic and industry conditions. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors on these fronts and, as a result, we may be unable to sustain our current market position. Our industry is subject to cyclical fluctuations, including recurring periods of capacity increases, that may adversely affect our results of operations. TFT-LCD manufacturers are vulnerable to cyclical market conditions. Intense competition and demand growth expectations may result in panel manufacturers investing in manufacturing capacity on similar schedules, resulting in a surge in capacity when production is ramped up at new fabrication facilities. During such surges in capacity growth, our customers can exert and have exerted strong downward pricing pressure, resulting in sharp declines in average selling prices and significant fluctuations in our gross margins. Conversely, demand surges and fluctuations in the supply chain can lead to price increases. In recent years, there has been a general decline in the average selling price of our display panels. For example, the overall average selling price of our display panels (including small panel applications) per square meter of net display area, which is derived by dividing total sales revenues by total square meters of net display area shipped, decreased by 2.9% from US$834 per square meter of net display area in 2009 to US$810 in 2010. Our gross margins have also fluctuated from period to period, from 12.8% in 2009 to 14.6% in 2010. Principal factors affecting our gross margins include declines in the average selling prices of our display panels, as well as our ability to maintain or increase unit sales volume and market share, minimize the impact of fluctuations in prices and foreign exchange rates and the supply and demand for principal components and raw materials, reduce unit manufacturing costs and introduce new products with higher margins in a timely manner. We anticipate continued capacity expansion in the TFT-LCD industry due to scheduled ramp-up of new fabrication facilities, and any large increases in capacity that this may create could further drive down the average selling prices of our panels, which would affect our gross margins. Any decline in prices may be further compounded by a seasonal weakening in demand growth for personal computer products, consumer electronics products and mobile and other application products. We cannot assure you that any future downturns resulting from any large increases in capacity or other factors affecting the industry would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results fluctuate from period to period, so you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons to predict our future performance. The TFT-LCD industry is affected by market conditions that are often outside the control of manufacturers. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to a number of factors, including seasonal variations in consumer demand, capacity ramp-up by competitors, industry-wide technological changes, the loss of a key customer and the postponement, rescheduling or cancellation of large orders by a key customer. As a result of these factors and other risks discussed in this section, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons to predict our future performance. 8 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Company Our financial condition may be adversely affected if we cannot introduce new products to adapt to rapidly evolving customer needs on a timely basis. New products are developed in anticipation of future demand. Our success will depend greatly on our ability to respond quickly to emerging customer requirements and to develop new products in anticipation of future demand. Any delay in our development of commercially successful products with reliable quality and advanced features may adversely affect our business. Success of a new product also depends on other factors such as close cooperation with our customers to gain insights into their product needs and to understand general trends in the market. When developing new products, we often work with equipment suppliers to design equipment that will make our production processes for such new products more efficient. If we are unable to work together with our customers and equipment suppliers, or to sufficiently understand their respective needs and capabilities, we may not be able to introduce new products in a timely manner, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial situation. We plan to continue to expand our operations to meet the growing demand for new applications in consumer electronics and other markets. Because these products, such as televisions and mobile devices, are expected to be marketed to a diverse group of end users with different specifications, functions and prices, we have developed different sales and marketing strategies to promote our panels for these products. We cannot provide assurance that our expansion strategy for these panels will be successful. Problems with product quality, including defects, in our TFT-LCD panels could result in a decrease in customers and sales, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. Our products are manufactured using advanced and often new technology and must meet stringent quality requirements. Products manufactured using advanced and new technology such as ours may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced. For example, our TFT-LCD panels may contain defects that are not detected until after they are shipped or installed because we cannot test for all possible scenarios. Such defects could cause us to incur significant re-designing costs, divert the attention of our technology personnel from product development efforts and significantly affect our customer relations and business reputation. In addition, future product failures could cause us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products. If we deliver TFT-LCD panels with errors or defects, or if there is a perception that our TFT-LCD panels contain errors or defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed. Widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. We sell our products to a select group of key customers, including our largest shareholder, and any significant decrease in their order levels will negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our sales is attributable to a limited group of end-brand customers and their designated system integrators. Sales attributed to our end-brand customers are for their end-brand products and do not include sales to these customers for their system integration activities for other end-brand products, if any. Our top ten end-brand customers, including LG Electronics, our largest shareholder, together accounted for 76.5% of our sales in 2009 and 75.8% in 2010. Our top five end-brand customers together accounted for 55.1% of our sales in 2009 and 55.0% in 2010. In 2010, only two end-brand customers, LG Electronics and Apple, contributed to 10% or more of our sales. We benefit from the strong collaborative relationships we maintain with our end-brand customers by participating in the development of their products and gaining insights about levels of future demand for our products and other industry trends. Customers look to us for a dependable supply of quality products, even during downturns in the industry, and we benefit from the brand recognition of our customers’ end products. The loss of these end-brand customers, as a result of customers entering into strategic supplier arrangements with our competitors or otherwise, would thus result not only in reduced sales, but also in the loss of these benefits. In addition, we engage in related party transactions with LG Electronics, our largest shareholder, and its affiliates: • Sales to LG Electronics – sales to LG Electronics (including its overseas subsidiaries) on an invoiced basis, which include sales to LG Electronics both as an end-brand customer and a system integrator, amounted to 25.9% and 24.8% of our sales in 2009 and 2010, respectively. • Sales to LG International – sales to LG International and its subsidiaries on an aggregate basis amounted to 7.3% and 8.8% of our sales in 2009 and 2010, respectively. 9 Table of Contents We expect that we will continue to be dependent upon LG Electronics and its affiliates for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. See “Item 7.B. Related Party Transactions” for a description of these related party transactions with LG Electronics and its affiliates. Our results of operations and financial condition could be affected by the overall performance of LG Electronics and its affiliates. We cannot provide assurance that a select group of key end-brand customers, including our largest shareholder, will continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods, or at all. Any material deterioration in the financial condition of our key end-brand customers, their system integrators or our affiliated trading company will have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our top ten end-brand customers together accounted for 76.5% of our sales in 2009 and 75.8% in 2010. Although we negotiate directly with our end-brand customers concerning the price and quantity of the sales, for some sales transactions we invoice the end-brand customers’ designated system integrators. In addition, a portion of our sales to end-brand customers and their system integrators located in certain regions are sold through our affiliated trading company, LG International Corp. and its subsidiaries. As a result of our significant dependence on a concentrated group of end-brand customers and their designated system integrators, as well as the sales we make to our affiliated trading company and its subsidiaries, we are exposed to credit risks associated with these entities. Changes at our end-brand customers could cause sales of our products to decline. Mergers, acquisitions, divestments or consolidations involving our end-brand customers can present risks to our business, as management at the new entity may change the way they do business, including their transactions with us, or may decide not to use us as one of their suppliers of TFT-LCD products. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that a combined entity resulting from a merger, acquisition or consolidation will continue to purchase TFT-LCD panels from us at the same level as each entity purchased in the aggregate when they were separate companies or that a divested company will purchase panels from us at all. Our results of operations depend on our ability to keep pace with changes in technology. Advances in technology typically lead to rapid declines in sales volumes for products made with older technologies and may lead to these products becoming less competitive in the marketplace, or even obsolete. As a result, we will likely be required to make significant expenditures to develop or acquire new process and product technologies. In particular, many TFT-LCD panel producers, including us, are currently focused on developing 3D televisions and other 3D products using the latest technology in other to gain a competitive advantage over the other producers in this relatively new market for 3D products. Also, our ability to manufacture our products by utilizing advanced process technologies to increase production yields at low production cost will be critical to our sustained competitiveness. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to successfully develop new products through our research and development efforts or through obtaining technology licenses, or that we will keep pace with technological changes in the marketplace. Our revenues depend on continuing demand for televisions, notebook computers, desktop monitors and mobile and other application products with TFT-LCD panels. Our sales may not grow at the rate we expect if consumers do not purchase these products. Currently, our total sales are derived principally from customers using our products in televisions, notebook computers, desktop monitors and mobile and other application products with display devices. In particular, a substantial percentage of our sales is increasingly derived from end-brand customers, or their designated system integrators, who use our panels in their televisions, which accounted for 54.7% and 55.2% of our total sales revenues in 2009 and 2010, respectively. A substantial portion of our sales is also derived from end-brand customers, or their designated system integrators, who use our TFT-LCD panels in their desktop monitors, which accounted for 23.2% and 21.1% of our total sales revenues in 2009 and 2010, respectively, and those who use our panels in their notebook computers, which accounted for 17.8% and 17.3% of our total sales revenues in 2009 and 2010, respectively. We will continue to be dependent on the growth in the television industry as well as the personal computer industry for a substantial portion of our sales, and any downturn in the television and personal computer industry would result in reduced demand for our products, reduced revenues, lower average selling prices and/or reduced margins. 10 Table of Contents The introduction of alternative display panel technologies, including those currently under development by our competitors and us, may erode future sales of TFT-LCD panels, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. New display technologies being developed by us and other panel makers, such as organic light emitting diode, or OLED, electronic paper display and flexible display, may gain wider market acceptance than TFT-LCD technology for use in certain products, such as mobile phones, certain types of tablet personal computers and industrial and other applications, including entertainment systems, automotives, portable navigation devices, e-books, digital photo displays and medical diagnostic equipment. If consumers do not purchase products utilizing TFT-LCD panels as we expect, or if TFT-LCD technology itself is rendered obsolete, this would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations to the extent we cannot offset such loss in demand for TFT-LCD products by selling products using other display technologies. We will have significant capital requirements in connection with our business strategy and if capital resources are not available we may not be able to implement our strategy and future plans. In connection with our strategy to expand the diversity and capacity of our TFT-LCD production, we estimate that we will incur significant capital expenditures for the expansion of existing production facilities, including the construction of additional production lines, and the construction of new production facilities. For example, we are currently equipping and building out P83, our second expansion to P8, which commenced mass production in March 2011, constructing AP2E, the expansion to our 4.5-generation LTPS fabrication facility, AP2, as well as constructing P9, a new eighth-generation panel fabrication facility, in Korea. Currently, our largest capital expenditure project is the construction of P9, for which we expect to incur capital expenditures on a cash out basis in the aggregate amount of approximately (Won)3.1 trillion. In addition, in November 2010, we received final approval from the Chinese government to build an eighth-generation panel fabrication facility in Guangzhou, China. We have not yet commenced construction of this panel fabrication facility. In 2010, our total capital expenditure on a cash out basis amounted to approximately (Won)4.9 trillion. In 2011, we expect that our total capital expenditures on a cash out basis will amount to approximately (Won)5.0 trillion. Such amounts are subject to periodic assessment, and we cannot provide any assurance that such amounts may not change materially after assessment. These capital expenditures will be made well in advance of any additional sales that will be generated from these expenditures. However, in the event of adverse market conditions, or if our actual expenditures far exceed our planned expenditures, our external financing activities combined with our internal sources of liquidity may not be sufficient to effect our current and future operational plans, and we may decide not to expand the capacity of certain of our facilities or construct new production facilities as scheduled or at all. Our ability to obtain additional financing will depend upon several factors outside our control, including general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other considerations. In recent years, disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets have resulted in increases in credit spreads and limitations on the availability of credit. Starting in mid-2007, credit markets in the United States began experiencing difficult conditions and increased volatility, which in turn adversely affected worldwide financial markets. Adverse conditions in the global credit and financial markets were further exacerbated in 2008 by the bankruptcy or acquisition of, and government assistance to, several major U.S. and European financial institutions. These developments resulted in reduced liquidity, greater volatility, widening of credit spreads and a reduction in price transparency in the U.S. and global financial markets. In response to such developments, legislators and financial regulators in the United States and other jurisdictions, including Korea, implemented a number of policy measures designed to add stability to the financial markets and stimulate the economy, including the provision of direct and indirect assistance to distressed financial institutions. However, while the rate of deterioration of the global economy slowed in the second half of 2009 and into 2010, with some signs of stabilization and improvement, the overall prospects for the Korean and global economy remain uncertain. For example, many governments worldwide, in particular in Greece and other countries in southern Europe, have shown signs of fiscal stress and may experience difficulties in meeting their debt service requirements. Any of these or other developments could potentially trigger another financial and economic crisis. Furthermore, while many governments worldwide are considering or are in the process of implementing “exit strategies,” in the form of reduced government spending, higher interest rates or otherwise, with respect to the economic stimulus measures adopted in response to the global financial crisis, such strategies may, for reasons related to timing, magnitude or other factors, have the unintended consequence of prolonging or worsening global economic and financial difficulties. Adverse conditions and uncertainty surrounding the Korean and global economies and financial markets may negatively impact the demand for and sales of our products, our credit ratings and our ability to meet our liquidity and other funding requirements. The failure to obtain sufficient financing on commercially reasonable terms to complete our expansion plans could delay or derail our ability to pursue our business strategy, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Our manufacturing processes are complex and periodic improvements to increase efficiency can expose us to potential disruptions in operations. The manufacturing process for TFT-LCD products is highly complex, requiring sophisticated and costly equipment that is periodically modified and updated to improve manufacturing yields and product performance, and reduce unit manufacturing costs. These updates expose us to the risk that from time to time production difficulties will arise that could cause delivery delays, reduced output or both. We cannot provide assurance that we will not experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable output, product delivery delays or both as a result of, among other factors, construction delays, difficulties in upgrading or modifying existing production lines or ramping up new plants, difficulties in changing manufacturing line technologies or delays in equipment deliveries, any of which could constrain our capacity and adversely affect our results of operations. We may be unable to successfully execute our expansion strategy or manage and sustain our growth on a timely basis, if at all, and, as a result, our business may be harmed. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, rapid growth in the scope and complexity of our operations. For example, with respect to our Korean facilities in recent years, we expanded our capacity by commencing mass production at our seventh-generation panel fabrication facility, P7, in January 2006, our eighth-generation panel fabrication facility, P8, in March 2009, our sixth-generation panel fabrication expansion, P62, in April 2009, our eighth-generation panel fabrication expansion, P82, in May 2010 and our eighth-generation panel fabrication expansion, P83, in March 2011. We are currently constructing our new eighth-generation panel fabrication facility, P9, which is expected to commence mass production during the fourth quarter of 2011. With respect to our overseas facilities in recent years, we commenced mass production at our module production plant in Wroclaw, Poland, in March 2007 and at our module production plant in Guangzhou, China, in December 2007. In November 2010, we received final approval from the Chinese government to build an eighth-generation panel fabrication facility in Guangzhou, China. See “—We will have significant capital requirements in connection with our business strategy and if capital resources are not available we may not be able to implement our strategy and future plans” above. This sustained growth may strain our managerial, financial, manufacturing and other resources. We may experience manufacturing difficulties in starting new production lines, upgrading existing facilities or ramping up new plants, as a result of cost overruns, construction delays or shortages of, or quality problems with, materials, labor or equipment, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues. In addition, failure to keep up with our competitors in future investments in next generation panel fabrication facilities or in the manufacturing capacity of existing facilities would impair our ability to effectively compete within the TFT-LCD industry. Failure to obtain intended economic benefits from expansion projects could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot maintain high capacity utilization rates, our profitability will be adversely affected. The production of TFT-LCD panels entails high fixed costs resulting from considerable expenditures for the construction of complex fabrication and assembly facilities and the purchase of costly equipment. We aim to maintain high capacity utilization rates so that we can allocate these fixed costs over a greater number of panels produced and realize higher gross margins. However, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to sustain our capacity utilization rates in the future. Limited availability of raw materials, components and manufacturing equipment could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our production operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of quality raw materials and components on a timely basis. As a result, it is important for us to control our component and raw material costs and reduce the effects of fluctuations in price and availability. In general, we source most of our raw materials as well as key components of TFT-LCD products, such as backlight units, glass substrates, driver integrated circuits and polarizers, from two or more suppliers for each key component. However, we may establish a working relationship with a single supplier if we believe it is advantageous to do so due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, price or other considerations. We may experience shortages in the supply of these key components, as well as other components or raw materials, as a result of, among other things, anticipated capacity expansion in the TFT-LCD industry or our dependence on a limited number of suppliers. Our results of operations would be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain adequate supplies of high-quality raw materials or components in a timely manner or make alternative arrangements for such supplies, or if there were significant increases in the costs of raw materials or components that we could not pass on to our customers. 12 Table of Contents We have purchased, and expect to purchase, a substantial portion of our equipment from a limited number of qualified foreign and local suppliers. From time to time, increased demand for new equipment may cause lead times to extend beyond those normally required by the equipment vendors. The unavailability of equipment, delays in the delivery of equipment, or the delivery of equipment that does not meet our specifications, could delay implementation of our expansion plans and impair our ability to meet customer orders. This could result in a loss of revenues and cause financial stress on our operations. The earthquake, tsunami and nuclear problem in Japan could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. A number of suppliers of our raw materials, components and manufacturing equipment are located in Japan. Some of these suppliers were affected by the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami that occurred in Japan (which also resulted in the release of radioactive materials from a nuclear plant that had been damaged by the earthquake) and some continue to be affected by unreliable power, shipping constraints and issues with their suppliers. We are rigorously assessing our potential exposure but significant uncertainties exist such that the extent and duration of these supply constraints cannot be currently determined. Although we believe that we have sufficient inventory to cover our immediate needs, we may experience shortages or delays in the supply of raw materials, components and manufacturing equipment that could cause us to change our manufacturing processes, limit our capacity, force us to seek alternative suppliers and/or increase the cost of our products. We may also encounter reduced demand for our products in the event customers are unable to obtain adequate supplies of other components or experience a slowdown in their business operations due to the events in Japan. As a result, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Purchase orders from our customers, which are placed generally one month in advance of delivery, vary in volume from period to period, and we operate with a modest inventory, which may make it difficult for us to efficiently allocate capacity on a timely basis in response to changes in demand. Our major customers and their designated system integrators provide us with three- to six-month rolling forecasts of their product requirements. However, firm orders are not placed until one month before delivery when negotiations on purchase prices are also finalized. Firm orders may be less than anticipated based on these three- to six-month forecasts. Due to the cyclicality of the TFT-LCD industry, purchase order levels from our customers have varied from period to period. Although we typically operate with a two- to four-week inventory, it may be difficult for us to adjust production costs or to allocate production capacity in a timely manner to compensate for any such volatility in order volumes. Our inability to respond quickly to changes in overall demand for TFT-LCD products as well as changes in product mix and specifications may result in lost revenues, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We may experience losses on inventories. Frequent new product introductions in the computer and consumer electronics industries can result in a decline in the average selling prices of our TFT-LCD panels and the obsolescence of our existing TFT-LCD panel inventory. This can result in a decrease in the stated value of our TFT-LCD panel inventory, which we value at the lower of cost or market value. We manage our inventory based on our customers’ and our own forecasts. Although adjustments are regularly made based on market conditions, we typically deliver our goods to the customers one month after a firm order has been placed. While we maintain open channels of communication with our major customers to avoid unexpected decreases in firm orders or subsequent changes to placed orders, and try to minimize our inventory levels, such actions by our customers may have an adverse effect on our inventory management. Sanctions or judgments against us and other TFT-LCD panel producers for possible anti-competitive activities may have a direct and indirect material impact on our operations. In December 2006, LG Display received notices of investigation by the Korea Fair Trade Commission, the Japan Fair Trade Commission, the U.S. Department of Justice, and the European Commission with respect to possible anti-competitive activities in the TFT-LCD industry. LG Display subsequently received similar notices from the Canadian Bureau of Competition Policy, the Secretariat of Economic Law of Brazil and the Taiwan Fair Trade Commission. In addition, in July 2009, the Federal Competition Commission of Mexico announced a similar investigation into possible anti-competitive practices in the LCD industry. In November 2008, LG Display executed an agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice whereby LG Display and its subsidiary, LG Display America, Inc., pleaded guilty to a Sherman Antitrust Act violation and agreed to pay a single total fine of US$400 million. In December 2008, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California accepted the terms of the plea agreement and entered a judgment against LG Display and LG Display America, Inc. and ordered the payment of US$400 million according to the following schedule: US$20 million plus any accrued interest by June 15, 2009, and US$76 million plus any accrued interest by each of June 15, 2010, June 15, 2011, June 15, 2012, June 15, 2013 and December 15, 2013. The agreement resolved all federal criminal charges against LG Display and LG Display America, Inc. in the United States in connection with this matter. 13 Table of Contents In December 2010, the European Commission issued a decision finding that LG Display engaged in anti-competitive activities in the TFT-LCD industry in violation of European Union competition laws, and imposed a fine of €215 million. In February 2011, LG Display filed with the European Union General Court an application for partial annulment and reduction of the fine imposed by the European Commission. As of May 2, 2011, the European Union General Court has not ruled on our application. In November 2009, the Taiwan Fair Trade Commission terminated its investigation without any finding of violations or levying of fines. As of May 2, 2011, investigations by the Canadian Bureau of Competition Policy, the Japan Fair Trade Commission, the Korea Fair Trade Commission, the Federal Competition Commission of Mexico and the Secretariat of Economic Law of Brazil are ongoing. After the commencement of the U.S. Department of Justice investigation, a number of class action complaints were filed against LG Display, LG Display America, Inc. and other TFT-LCD panel manufacturers in the United States and Canada alleging violation of respective antitrust laws and related laws. In a series of decisions in 2007 and 2008, the class action lawsuits in the United States were transferred to the Northern District of California for pretrial proceedings (“MDL Proceedings”). In March 2010, the federal district court granted the class certification motion filed by the indirect purchaser plaintiffs, and granted in part and denied in part the class certification motion filed by the direct purchaser plaintiffs. In June 2010, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals denied the defendants’ petitions appealing the class certification decisions. In January 2011, 78 entities (including groups of affiliated entities) submitted requests for exclusion from the direct purchaser class. The time period for submitting requests for exclusion from the indirect purchaser class has not yet begun. Trial is set to begin in the two class action lawsuits on February 13, 2012. Class certification in Canada remains pending. In addition, in 2010 and 2011, the attorneys general of Arkansas, California, Florida, Illinois, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New York, Oregon, South Carolina, Washington, West Virginia and Wisconsin filed complaints against LG Display, alleging similar antitrust violations as alleged in the MDL Proceedings. The attorneys general actions all remain in the initial pleadings stages. In relation to the MDL Proceedings, in 2009, ATS Claim, LLC (assignee of Ricoh Electronics, Inc.), AT&T Corp. and its affiliates, Motorola, Inc., and Electrograph Technologies Corp. and its subsidiary filed separate claims in the United States, and all of the actions were subsequently consolidated into the MDL Proceedings. In November 2010, ATS Claim, LLC dismissed its action as to LG Display pursuant to a settlement agreement. In addition, in 2010, TracFone Wireless Inc., Best Buy Co., Inc. and its affiliates, Target Corp., Sears, Roebuck and Co., Kmart Corp., Old Comp Inc., Good Guys, Inc., RadioShack Corp., Newegg Inc., Costco Wholesale Corp., Sony Electronics, Inc., Sony Computer Entertainment America LLC, SB Liquidation Trust, and the trustee of the Circuit City Stores, Inc. Liquidation Trust, filed claims in the United States. In addition, in 2011, Office Depot, Inc. and T-Mobile U.S.A., Inc. filed similar claims in the United States. To the extent these claims were not filed in the MDL Proceedings, they have been transferred to the MDL Proceedings or motions have been made to transfer them to the MDL Proceedings. In February 2007, LG Display and certain of its current and former officers and directors were named as defendants in a purported shareholder class action in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, alleging violation of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In May 2010, the defendants, including LG Display, reached an agreement in principle with the class plaintiffs to settle the action and in March 2011, the district court granted final approval of the settlement. In connection with these ongoing proceedings and claims, our management evaluates, based on the relevant facts and legal principles, the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome and whether the amount of the loss could be reasonably estimated. Significant subjective judgments were required in these evaluations, including judgments regarding the validity of asserted claims and the likely outcome of these proceedings. The outcome of these proceedings, however, is subject to a number of factors beyond our control, most notably the uncertainty associated with predicting decisions by courts and regulatory agencies. In addition, estimates of the potential costs associated with legal and regulatory proceedings frequently cannot be subjected to any sensitivity analysis, as damage estimates or settlement offers by claimants may bear little or no relation to the eventual outcome. 14 Table of Contents In each of the foregoing matters that are ongoing, LG Display is continually evaluating the merits of the respective claims and vigorously defending itself. Irrespective of the validity or the successful assertion of the claims described above, LG Display may incur significant costs with respect to litigating or settling any or all of the asserted claims. See “Item 8.A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings” for a description of these matters. While we continue to vigorously defend the various proceedings described above, it is possible that one or more proceedings may result in an unfavorable outcome. We have recognized provisions in 2010 with respect to those contingencies in which management has concluded that the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of loss is reasonably estimable. However, actual liability may be materially different from that estimated as of December 31, 2010 and may have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. We need to observe certain financial and other covenants under the terms of our debt instruments, the failure to comply with which would put us in default under those instruments. Certain of our debt instruments contain financial and other covenants with which we are required to comply on an annual and semi-annual basis. The financial covenants include, but are not limited to, maintenance of credit ratings and debt-to-equity ratios. The documentation for such debt also contains negative pledge provisions limiting our ability to provide liens on our assets as well as cross-default and cross-acceleration clauses, which give related creditors the right to accelerate the amounts due under such debt if an event of default or acceleration has occurred with respect to our existing or future indebtedness, or if any material part of our indebtedness or indebtedness of our subsidiaries is capable of being declared payable before the stated maturity date. In addition, such covenants restrict our ability to raise future debt financing. If we breach our financial or other covenants, our financial condition will be adversely affected to the extent we are not able to cure such breaches or repay the relevant debt. Our results of operations are subject to exchange rate fluctuations. There has been considerable volatility in foreign exchange rates in recent years, including rates between the Won and the U.S. dollar. To the extent that we incur costs in one currency and make sales in another, our profit margins may be affected by changes in the exchange rates between the two currencies. Our sales of display panels are denominated mainly in U.S. dollars, whereas our purchases of raw materials are denominated mainly in U.S. dollars and Japanese Yen. Our expenditures on capital equipment are denominated principally in Korean Won. In 2010, 96.9% of our sales were denominated in U.S. dollars. During the same period, 73.2% of our purchases of raw materials were denominated in U.S. dollars and 25.8% in Japanese Yen. In addition, 66.1% of our equipment purchases and construction costs, which represented almost all of our total capital expenditures in 2010, were denominated in Korean Won. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates, in particular between the U.S. dollar and the Korean Won as well as between the Japanese Yen and the Korean Won, affect our operating profits and pre-tax income. Beginning in the second half of 2008, the value of the Won relative to the U.S. dollar has fluctuated widely. See “Item 3.A. Selected Financial Data—Exchange Rates.” During this period, the value of the Won relative to the Japanese Yen has also fluctuated. Although a depreciation in the Korean Won against the U.S. dollar or the Japanese Yen increases the Korean Won value of our export sales or causes our export products to be more competitive by lowering our prices in U.S. dollar or Japanese Yen terms, it also increases the cost of imported raw materials in Korean Won terms and our cost in Korean Won of servicing our foreign currency debt. In addition, continued exchange rate volatility may also result in foreign exchange losses for us. Although a depreciation in the Korean Won against the U.S. dollar, in general, has a net positive impact on our results of operations that more than offsets the net negative impact caused by a depreciation in the Korean Won against the Japanese Yen, we cannot provide assurance that the exchange rate will not be subject to significant fluctuations, including a sharp appreciation of the Korean Won against the U.S. dollar or the Japanese Yen, and that the impact of such fluctuations will not adversely affect the results of our operations. Our business relies on our patent rights which may be narrowed in scope or found to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable. Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to obtain and enforce our patent rights both in Korea and worldwide. The coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before a patent is issued, either in Korea or abroad. Consequently, we cannot provide assurance that any of our pending or future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents. Patents issued to us may be subjected to further proceedings limiting their scope and may not provide significant proprietary protection or competitive advantage. Our patents also may be challenged, circumvented, invalidated or deemed unenforceable. In addition, because patent applications in certain countries generally are not published until more than 18 months after they are first filed, because we currently monitor patent applications filed only by other parties in Korea, Japan and the United States, and because publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were, or any of our licensors was, the first creator of inventions covered by pending patent applications, that we or any of our licensors will be entitled to any rights in purported inventions claimed in pending or future patent applications, or that we were, or any of our licensors was, the first to file patent applications on such inventions. 15 Table of Contents Furthermore, pending patent applications or patents already issued to us or our licensors may become subject to dispute, and any dispute could be resolved against us. For example, we may become involved in re-examination, reissue or interference proceedings and the result of these proceedings could be the invalidation or substantial narrowing of our patent claims. We also could be subject to court proceedings that could find our patents invalid or unenforceable or could substantially narrow the scope of our patent claims. In addition, depending on the jurisdiction, statutory differences in patentable subject matter may limit the protection we can obtain on some of our inventions. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could impair our competitiveness and harm our business and future prospects. We believe that developing new products and technologies that can be differentiated from those of our competitors is critical to the success of our business. We take active measures to obtain international protection of our intellectual property by obtaining patents and undertaking monitoring activities in our major markets. However, we cannot assure you that the measures we are taking will effectively deter competitors from improper use of our proprietary technologies. Our competitors may misappropriate our intellectual property, disputes as to ownership of intellectual property may arise and our intellectual property may otherwise become known or independently developed by our competitors. Any failure to protect our intellectual property could impair our competitiveness and harm our business and future prospects. Our rapid introduction of new technologies and products may increase the likelihood that third parties will assert claims that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights. Although we take and will continue to take steps to ensure that our new products do not infringe upon third party rights, the rapid technological changes that characterize our industry require that we quickly implement new processes and components with respect to our products. Often with respect to recently developed processes and components, a degree of uncertainty exists as to who may rightfully claim ownership rights in such processes and components. Uncertainty of this type increases the risk that claims alleging that such components or processes infringe upon third party rights may be brought against us. If our products or manufacturing processes are found to infringe upon third party rights, we may be subject to significant liabilities and be required to change our manufacturing processes or be prohibited from manufacturing certain products, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We may be required to defend against charges of infringement of patent or other proprietary rights of third parties. Although patent and other intellectual property disputes in our industry have often been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, such defense could require us to incur substantial expense and to divert significant resources of our technical and management personnel, and could result in our loss of rights to develop or make certain products or require us to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that the necessary licenses would be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling certain of our products. Any such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversions of our resources, either of which could adversely affect our business. In December 2006, we filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Chi Mei Optoelectronics Corp. and AU Optronics Corp. claiming infringement of patents related to liquid crystal displays and the manufacturing processes for TFT-LCDs. We are seeking, among other things, monetary damages for past infringement and an injunction against future infringement. In March 2007, AU Optronics filed a counter-claim against us in the United States District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin for alleged infringement of patents related to the manufacturing processes for TFT-LCDs but the suit was transferred to the United States District Court for the District of Delaware in May 2007. In May 2007, Chi Mei Optoelectronics filed a counter-claim against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, but the suit was transferred to the United States District Court for the District of Delaware in March 2008. The Delaware court bifurcated the trial between AU Optronics and Chi Mei Optoelectronics, holding the first trial against AU Optronics in June 2009. 16 Table of Contents Although we had a total of nine patents to be tried and AU Optronics had a total of seven patents to be tried in the first trial against AU Optronics, the trial was further bifurcated so that only four patents from each side were tried. In February 2010, the Delaware court found that the four AU Optronics patents were valid and were infringed by us, and in April 2010, the Delaware court further found that our four patents were valid but were not infringed by AU Optronics. In October and November 2010, we filed a motion for a new trial and to amend certain findings on the AU Optronics patents and our patents, respectively. As of May 2, 2011, the Delaware court has not ruled on our motions. In February 2007, Anvik Corporation filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against us, along with other TFT-LCD manufacturing companies, for alleged patent infringement in connection with the use of photo-masking equipment manufactured by Nikon Corporation. Anvik is seeking monetary damages for past infringement and an injunction against future infringement. We rely on technology provided by third parties and our business will suffer if we are unable to renew our licensing arrangements with them. From time to time, we have obtained licenses for patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to process and device technologies used in the production of our display panels. We have entered into key licensing arrangements with third parties, for which we have made, and continue to make, periodic license fee payments. In addition, we also have cross-license agreements with certain other third parties. These agreements terminate upon the expiration of the respective terms of the patents. If we are unable to renew our technology licensing arrangements on acceptable terms, we may lose the legal protection to use certain of the processes we employ to manufacture our products and be prohibited from using those processes, which may prevent us from manufacturing and selling certain of our products, including our key products. In addition, we could be at a disadvantage if our competitors obtain licenses for protected technologies on more favorable terms than we do. In the future, we may also need to obtain additional patent licenses for new or existing technologies. We cannot provide assurance that these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms or at all, and if not, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We rely upon trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary know-how to maintain our competitive position in the TFT-LCD industry and any loss of our rights to, or unauthorized disclosure of, our trade secrets or other unpatented proprietary know-how could negatively affect our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and information, as well as continuing technological innovation in our business. The information we rely upon includes price forecasts, core technology and key customer information. We enter into confidentiality agreements with each of our employees and consultants upon the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship. These agreements generally provide that all inventions, ideas, discoveries, improvements and copyrightable material made or conceived by the individual arising out of the employment or consulting relationship and all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the term of the relationship is our exclusive property. We cannot provide assurance that the enforceability of these types of agreements, or that they will not be breached. We also cannot be certain that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. The disclosure of our trade secrets or other know-how as a result of such a breach could adversely affect our business. Also, our competitors may come to know about or determine our trade secrets and other proprietary information through a variety of methods. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of our confidentiality agreements, and there can be no assurance that any such disputes would be resolved in our favor. Further, others may acquire or independently develop similar technology, or if patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain information pertinent to such research as proprietary technology or trade secrets and that could have an adverse effect on our competitive position within the TFT-LCD industry. We rely on key researchers and engineers, senior management and production facility operators, and the loss of the services of any such personnel or the inability to attract and retain them may negatively affect our business. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our research and development and engineering personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified researchers and engineers, especially during periods of rapid growth. In particular, our focus on leading the market in introducing new products and advanced manufacturing processes has meant that we must aggressively recruit engineers with expertise in cutting-edge technologies. 17 Table of Contents We also depend on the services of experienced key senior management, and if we lose their services, it would be difficult to find and integrate replacement personnel in a timely manner, or at all. We also employ highly skilled line operators at our various production facilities. The loss of the services of any of our key research and development and engineering personnel, senior management or skilled operators without adequate replacement, or the inability to attract new qualified personnel, would have a material adverse effect on our operations. The interests of LG Electronics, our largest shareholder, and the directors and officers nominated by it, may differ from or conflict with those of us or our other shareholders. When exercising its rights as our largest shareholder, LG Electronics may take into account not only our interests but also its interests and the interests of its affiliates. The interests of display businesses of LG Electronics may at times conflict with ours since the growth of our business depends, in part, on successful competition with other display technologies. For example, LG Electronics manufactures plasma display panels, or PDPs, which is an alternative display technology to TFT-LCDs, and it has invested in a PDP production facility in Gumi, Korea, as well as overseas PDP module plants in Mexico and Poland. These conflicts may result in alternative display technologies gaining wider market acceptance than TFT-LCDs or a decision by our largest shareholder to sell products using other display technologies. Various other conflicts of interest between LG Electronics and us may arise in the future in a number of areas relating to our business and relationships, including potential acquisitions of businesses or properties, incurrence of indebtedness, financial commitments, sales and marketing functions, indemnity arrangements, service arrangements and the exercise by LG Electronics of control over our management and affairs. See “Item 6.A. Directors and Senior Management” for a description of the composition of our current board of directors. Labor unrest may disrupt our operations. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 66% of our total employees, including those of our subsidiaries, were union members, and production employees accounted for substantially all of these members. We have a collective bargaining arrangement with our labor union, which is negotiated once a year. If our relationship with our employees deteriorates and there is labor unrest resulting in a work stoppage or strike, our production facilities will not be able to continue operations and this will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to strict environmental regulations and we may be subject to fines or restrictions that could cause our operations to be interrupted. Our manufacturing processes generate chemical waste, waste water and other industrial waste at various stages in the manufacturing process, and we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of such chemical by-products and waste substances. We have installed various types of anti-pollution equipment, consistent with industry standards, for the treatment of chemical waste and equipment for the recycling of treated waste water at our various facilities. However, we cannot provide assurance that environmental claims will not be brought against us or that the local or national governments will not take steps toward adopting more stringent environmental standards. Any failure on our part to comply with any present or future environmental regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us, suspension of production or a cessation of operations. In addition, environmental regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant compliance expenses that may materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to our American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, or our Common Stock Future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market may depress our stock price and make it difficult for you to recover the full value of your investment in our common stock or our ADSs. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of our common stock for sale will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. Our largest shareholder, LG Electronics, currently owns approximately 37.9% of our voting stock. There is no assurance that LG Electronics will not sell a portion of its ownership interest in us. 18 Table of Contents Any future sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market by us or by LG Electronics, or the perception that these events may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease or to be lower than it might be in the absence of these events or perceptions. Our public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by the laws governing Korean corporations. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders and members of our board of directors under Korean law may be different from those that apply to shareholders and directors of a U.S. corporation. For example, minority shareholder rights afforded under Korean law often require the minority shareholder to meet minimum shareholding requirements in order to exercise certain rights. In the case of public companies, a shareholder must own, individually or collectively with other shareholders, at least 0.01% of our common stock for at least six consecutive months in order to file a derivative suit on behalf of us. While the facts and circumstances of each case will differ, the duty of care required of a director under Korean law may not be the same as the fiduciary duty of a director of a U.S. corporation. Holders of our common stock or our ADSs may have more difficulty protecting their interests against actions of our management, members of our board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. You may be limited in your ability to deposit or withdraw the common stock underlying the ADSs, which may adversely affect the value of your investment. Under the terms of our deposit agreement, holders of common stock may deposit such common stock with the depositary’s custodian in Korea and obtain ADSs, and holders of ADSs may surrender ADSs to the depositary and receive common stock. However, to the extent that a deposit of common stock exceeds the difference between: • the aggregate number of shares of common stock we have consented to allow to be deposited for the issuance of ADSs (including deposits in connection with offerings of ADSs and stock dividends or other distributions relating to ADSs); and • the number of shares of common stock on deposit with the custodian for the benefit of the depositary at the time of such proposed deposit, such common stock will not be accepted for deposit unless (1) our consent, subject to governmental authorization, with respect to such deposit has been obtained or (2) such consent is no longer required under Korean laws and regulations. Under the terms of the deposit agreement, no consent is required if the shares of common stock are obtained through a dividend, free distribution, rights offering or reclassification of such stock. The current limit on the number of shares that may be deposited into our ADR facility is 68,095,700 as of May 2, 2011. The number of shares issued or sold in any subsequent offering by us or our major shareholders, subject to government authorization, raises the limit on the number of shares that may be deposited into the ADR facility, except to the extent such deposit is prohibited by applicable laws or violates our articles of incorporation, or we determine with the ADR depositary to limit the number of shares of common stock so offered that would be eligible for deposit under the deposit agreement in order to maintain liquidity for the shares in Korea as may be requested by the relevant Korean authorities. We might not consent to the deposit of any additional common stock. As a result, if a holder surrenders ADSs and withdraws common stock, it may not be able to deposit the common stock again to obtain ADSs. Holders of ADSs will not have preemptive rights in some circumstances. The Korean Commercial Code of 1962, as amended, and our articles of incorporation require us, with some exceptions, to offer shareholders the right to subscribe for new shares of our common stock in proportion to their existing shareholding ratio whenever new shares are issued, except under certain circumstances as provided in our articles of incorporation. Accordingly, if we issue new shares to non-shareholders based on such exception, a holder of our ADSs may experience dilution in its holdings. Furthermore, if we offer any right to subscribe for additional shares of our common stock or any rights of any other nature to existing shareholders subject to their preemptive rights, the depositary, after consultation with us, may make the rights available to holders of our ADSs or use reasonable efforts to dispose of the rights on behalf of such holders and make the net proceeds available to such holders. The depositary, however, is not required to make available to holders any rights to purchase any additional shares of our common stock unless it deems that doing so is lawful and feasible and; 19 Table of Contents • a registration statement filed by us under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is in effect with respect to those shares; or • the offering and sale of those shares is exempt from or is not subject to the registration requirements of the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file any registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, a holder of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in its holdings. If a registration statement is required for a holder of our ADSs to exercise preemptive rights but is not filed by us or is not declared effective, the holder will not be able to exercise its preemptive rights for additional ADSs and it will suffer dilution of its equity interest in us. If the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or feasible, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case the holder will receive no value for these rights. Holders of ADSs will not be able to exercise dissent and appraisal rights unless they have withdrawn the underlying shares of our common stock and become our direct shareholders. In some limited circumstances, including the transfer of the whole or any significant part of our business and our merger or consolidation with another company, dissenting shareholders have the right to require us to purchase their shares under Korean law. However, a holder of our ADSs will not be able to exercise such dissent and appraisal rights if the depositary refuses to do so on their behalf. Our deposit agreement does not require the depositary to take any action in respect of exercising dissent and appraisal rights. In such a situation, holders of our ADSs must initiate the withdrawal of the underlying common stock from the ADS facility (and incur charges relating to that withdrawal) by the day immediately following the date of public disclosure of our board of directors’ resolution of a merger or other events triggering appraisal rights and become our direct shareholder prior to the record date of the shareholders’ meeting at which the relevant transaction is to be approved, in order to exercise dissent and appraisal rights. Dividend payments and the amount you may realize upon a sale of our common stock or ADSs that you hold will be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Korean Won. Cash dividends, if any, in respect of the shares represented by our ADSs will be paid to the depositary in Korean Won and then converted by the depositary into U.S. dollars, subject to certain conditions. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Korean Won and the U.S. dollar will affect, among other things, the amounts a holder will receive from the depositary in respect of dividends, the U.S. dollar value of the proceeds that a holder would receive upon sale in Korea of the shares of our common stock obtained upon surrender of ADSs and the secondary market price of ADSs. Such fluctuations will also affect the U.S. dollar value of dividends and sales proceeds received by holders of our common stock. Risks Relating to Korea If economic conditions in Korea deteriorate, our current business and future growth could be materially and adversely affected. We are incorporated in Korea, and a significant portion of our operations and assets are located in Korea. As a result, we are subject to political, economic, legal and regulatory risks specific to Korea. The economic indicators in Korea in recent years have shown mixed signs, and future growth of the Korean economy is subject to many factors beyond our control. Recent difficulties affecting the U.S. and global financial sectors, adverse conditions and volatility in the U.S. and worldwide credit and financial markets, fluctuations in oil and commodity prices and the general weakness of the U.S. and global economy have increased the uncertainty of global economic prospects in general and have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the Korean economy. Beginning in the second half of 2008, the value of the Won relative to major foreign currencies in general and the U.S. dollar in particular has fluctuated widely. “Item 3A. Selected Financial Data—Exchange Rates.” A depreciation of the Won increases the cost of imported goods and services and the Won revenue needed by Korean companies to service foreign currency denominated debt. An appreciation of the Won, on the other hand, causes export products of Korean companies to be less competitive by raising their prices in terms of the relevant foreign currency and reduces the Won value of such export sales. Furthermore, as a result of volatile global and Korean economic conditions, there has been continued fluctuations in the stock prices of Korean companies. The Korea Composite Stock Price Index (known as the “KOSPI”) declined from 1,897.1 on December 31, 2007 to 938.8 on October 24, 2008. On May 2, 2011, the KOSPI closed at 2,229.0. While the KOSPI has fully recovered from its lowest point in 2008 and has since exceeded its previous highest record of 2,085.45 set in 2007, there is no guarantee that the stock prices of Korean companies will not decline significantly in the future. Future declines in the KOSPI and large amounts of sales of Korean securities by foreign investors and subsequent repatriation of the proceeds of such sales may continue to adversely affect the value of the Won, the foreign currency reserves held by financial institutions in Korea, and the ability of Korean companies to raise capital. Any future deterioration of the Korean or global economy could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Developments that could have an adverse impact on Korea’s economy in the future include: • difficulties in the housing and financial sectors in the United States and elsewhere and increased sovereign default risks in selected countries and the resulting adverse effects on the global financial markets; • adverse changes or volatility in foreign currency reserve levels, commodity prices (including oil prices), exchange rates (including fluctuation of the U.S. dollar or Japanese Yen exchange rates or revaluation of the Chinese Renminbi), interest rates and stock markets; • continuing adverse conditions in the economies of countries that are important export markets for Korea, such as the United States, Japan and China, or in emerging market economies in Asia or elsewhere; • substantial decreases in the market prices of Korean real estate; • increasing delinquencies and credit defaults by consumer and small- and medium-sized enterprise borrowers; • declines in consumer confidence and a slowdown in consumer spending; • the continued emergence of the Chinese economy, to the extent its benefits (such as increased exports to China) are outweighed by its costs (such as competition in export markets or for foreign investment and the relocation of the manufacturing base from Korea to China); • social and labor unrest; • a decrease in tax revenues and a substantial increase in the Korean government’s expenditures for fiscal stimulus measures, unemployment compensation and other economic and social programs that, together, would lead to an increased Korean government budget deficit; • financial problems or lack of progress in the restructuring of Korean conglomerates, other large troubled companies, their suppliers or the financial sector; • loss of investor confidence arising from corporate accounting irregularities and corporate governance issues at certain Korean conglomerates; • the economic impact of any pending or future free trade agreements, including the free trade agreements with the United States and the European Union; • geo-political uncertainty and risk of further attacks by terrorist groups around the world; • the recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome or an outbreak of swine or avian flu in Asia and other parts of the world; • deterioration in economic or diplomatic relations between Korea and its trading partners or allies, including deterioration resulting from trade disputes or disagreements in foreign policy; • political uncertainty or increasing strife among or within political parties in Korea; • the occurrence of severe earthquakes, tsunami or other natural disasters in Korea and other parts of the world, particularly in trading partners (such as the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, which also resulted in the release of radioactive materials from a nuclear plant that had been damaged by the earthquake); • hostilities or political or social tensions involving oil producing countries in the Middle East and North Africa and any material disruption in the supply of oil or increase in the price of oil; and • an increase in the level of tensions or an outbreak of hostilities between North Korea and Korea or the United States. Escalations in tensions with North Korea could have an adverse effect on us and the market value of our common stock. Relations between Korea and North Korea have been tense throughout Korea’s modern history. The level of tension between the two Koreas has fluctuated and may increase abruptly as a result of current and future events. In recent years, there have been heightened security concerns stemming from North Korea’s nuclear weapons and long-range missile programs and increased uncertainty regarding North Korea’s actions and possible responses from the international community. In January 2003, North Korea renounced its obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Since the renouncement, Korea, the United States, North Korea, China, Japan and Russia have held numerous rounds of six party multi-lateral talks in an effort to resolve issues relating to North Korea’s nuclear weapons program. 21 Table of Contents In addition to conducting test flights of long-range missiles, North Korea announced in October 2006 that it had successfully conducted a nuclear test, which increased tensions in the region and elicited strong objections worldwide. In May 2009, North Korea announced that it had successfully conducted a second nuclear test and test-fired three short-range surface-to-air missiles. In response, the United Nations Security Council unanimously passed a resolution in June 2009 that condemned North Korea for the nuclear test and decided to expand and tighten sanctions against North Korea. In March 2010, a Korean warship was destroyed by an underwater explosion, killing many of the crewmen on board. The government formally accused North Korea of causing the sinking in May 2010, and North Korea has denied responsibility for the sinking and has threatened retaliation for any attempt to punish it for the act. In November 2010, North Korean forces fired more than one hundred artillery shells targeting Yeonpyeong Island located near the maritime border between Korea and North Korea on the west coast of the Korean peninsula, killing two Korean soldiers and two civilians as well as causing substantial property damage. Korea responded by firing approximately 80 artillery shells and putting the military on its highest alert level. The Government condemned North Korea for the act and vowed stern retaliation should there be further provocation. In addition, there recently has been increased uncertainty with respect to the future of North Korea’s political leadership and concern regarding its implications for political stability in the region. In September 2010, Kim Jong-il, the North Korean ruler who reportedly suffered a stroke in August 2008, named Kim Jong-un, his third son who is reported to be in his twenties, as the vice chairman of the Central Military Commission and the general of the North Korean army. Although Kim Jong-il has designated his son to be his successor, the implementation of the succession plan remains uncertain. North Korea’s economy also faces severe challenges. In November 2009, the North Korean government redenominated its currency at a ratio of 100 to 1 as part of a currency reform undertaken in an attempt to control inflation and reduce income gaps. Such developments may further aggravate social and political tensions within North Korea. Over the longer term, reunification of the two Koreas could occur. Reunification may entail a significant economic commitment by Korea. In President Lee Myung Bak’s national address in August 2010, he suggested the possible adoption of a reunification tax in order to prepare for long-term economic burden associated with reunification. Such discussions on reunification are preliminary, and it has not been decided whether or when such tax would be implemented. If a reunification tax is implemented, it may lead to a decrease in domestic consumption, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on the Korean economy. In addition, there can be no assurance that the level of tension on the Korean peninsula will not escalate in the future. Any further increase in tension, which may occur, for example, if North Korea experiences a leadership crisis, high-level contacts between Korea and North Korea break down or military hostilities occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market value of our common stock. If the Korean government deems that emergency circumstances are likely to occur, it may restrict holders of our ADSs and the depositary from converting and remitting dividends and other amounts in U.S. dollars. Under the Korean Foreign Exchange Transaction Law, if the Korean government deems that certain emergency circumstances, including sudden fluctuations in interest rates or exchange rates, extreme difficulty in stabilizing the balance of payments or substantial disturbance in the Korean financial and capital markets, are likely to occur, it may impose any necessary restrictions as requiring Korean or foreign investors to obtain prior approval from the Minister of Strategy and Finance for the acquisition of Korean securities or the repatriation of interest, dividends or sales proceeds arising from Korean securities or from disposition of such securities or other transactions involving foreign exchange. See “Item 10.D. Exchange Controls.” 