Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. If any of these certain risks and uncertainties were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. • The agreement governing our revolving credit facility contains financial covenants, and that agreement and the indenture governing our 7.875% senior secured notes due 2019 (the “7.875% notes”) contain other covenants that may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, our business, results of operations and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. We entered into an amended and restated loan and security agreement on April 26, 2011, which amended and restated the loan agreement, dated January 7, 2009 (as amended, the “Loan and Security Agreement”), which governs our revolving credit facility (as amended, the “revolving credit facility”). Under the revolving credit facility, we are required, under certain circumstances, to comply with a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant, as described in more detail under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Debt and Credit Facilities — Revolving Credit Facility.” We continue to operate in a challenging economic environment, and our ability to comply with the covenants in the Loan and Security Agreement may be affected in the future by economic or business conditions beyond our control. If we do not comply with the financial and 21 Table of Contents other covenants in the Loan and Security Agreement and we are unable to obtain necessary waivers or amendments from the lender, we would be precluded from borrowing under the Loan and Security Agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. If we are unable to borrow under the Loan and Security Agreement, we will need to meet our capital requirements using other sources and alternative sources of liquidity may not be available on acceptable terms. In addition, if we do not comply with the financial and other covenants in the Loan and Security Agreement, the lender could declare an event of default under the Loan and Security Agreement, and our indebtedness thereunder could be declared immediately due and payable, which would also result in an event of default under the 7.875% notes. The lender under the Loan and Security Agreement would also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments it has to provide further borrowings. Any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, the Loan and Security Agreement contains covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • incur liens; • incur or assume additional debt or guarantees or issue preferred stock; • pay dividends, or make redemptions and repurchases, with respect to capital stock; • prepay, or make redemptions and repurchases of, subordinated debt; • make loans and investments; • make capital expenditures; • engage in mergers, acquisitions, asset sales, sale/leaseback transactions and transactions with affiliates; • place restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to the issuer; • change the business conducted by us or our subsidiaries; and • amend the terms of subordinated debt. The indenture governing the 7.875% notes also contain restrictive covenants. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in this debt agreement and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. • Our substantial amount of indebtedness may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our indebtedness. The aggregate amount of our outstanding indebtedness was $250.0 million as of December 31, 2012. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our indebtedness, combined with our lease and other financial obligations and contractual commitments could have other important consequences to our stockholders. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, including the revolving credit facility and the 7.875% notes, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the 7.875% notes; • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; 22 Table of Contents • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes. Any of the above listed factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The agreement governing the revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the 7.875% notes contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debt. • Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to refinance or restructure our indebtedness before it becomes due. Our ability to pay interest on and principal of the revolving credit facility, the 7.875% notes and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend principally upon our future operating performance. As a result, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will affect our ability to make these payments. Our revolving credit facility is due in 2014, and the 7.875% notes are due in 2019. We may not be able to refinance or restructure our revolving credit facility or our long-term debt before it becomes due. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt service obligations, including payments on the revolving credit facility and the 7.875% notes, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of the Loan and Security Agreement and the indenture governing the 7.875% notes, or any agreements governing any future debt instruments, restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance our obligations at all or on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our obligations in respect of our long-term debt. • Volatility and cyclicality in the commercial vehicle market could adversely affect us. Our profitability depends in part on the varying conditions in the commercial vehicle market. This market is subject to considerable volatility as it moves in response to cycles in the overall business environment and is particularly sensitive to the industrial sector of the economy, which generates a significant portion of the freight tonnage hauled. Sales of commercial vehicles have historically been cyclical, with demand affected by such economic factors as industrial production, construction levels, demand for consumer durable goods, interest rates and fuel costs. For example, North American commercial vehicle sales and production experienced a downturn from 2000 to 2003 due to a confluence of events that included a weak economy, an oversupply of new and used vehicle inventory and lower spending on commercial vehicles and equipment. In addition, North American commercial vehicle sales and production experienced a downturn during 2007 and 2008 as a result of preorders 23 Table of Contents in 2006 in anticipation of the new EPA emission standards becoming effective in 2007 and general weakness in the North American economy and corresponding decline in the need for heavy truck commercial vehicles to haul freight tonnage in North America, among other factors. These downturns had a material adverse effect on our business during the same periods. North American Class 8 production levels in 2009 were down approximately 42% over 2008 as the overall weakness in the North American economy and credit markets continued to put pressure on the demand for new vehicles. In addition, tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of our customers to obtain financing for significant truck orders. Although North American Class 8 production in 2012 increased approximately 9% over the prior year period, we cannot provide any assurance as to the length or level of the recovery from the recent decline, and any future decline would have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Any extended downturn could again materially affect our business and results of operations. We also cannot predict that the industry will follow past cyclical patterns that might include strong preorders in advance of new emissions standards or declines driven by post-EPA standards or economic conditions, and changes in these patterns may adversely affect our business and results of operations. • Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage potential acquisition proposals, could delay, deter or prevent a change in control and could limit the price certain investors might be willing to pay for our stock. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may inhibit changes in control of our company not approved by our board of directors. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors with staggered terms; • a prohibition on stockholder action through written consents; • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the board of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal the by-laws; and • the authority of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and additional shares of our common stock. We are also afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which would prevent us from engaging in a business combination with a person who becomes a 15% or greater stockholder for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such status unless certain board or stockholder approvals were obtained. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. • Volatility in the commercial vehicle market could result from manmade and natural disasters and other global business disruptions. Volatility in the commercial vehicle market could result from manmade and natural disasters and other global business disruptions. Such catastrophic events may disrupt the commercial vehicle supply chain and materially adversely affect global production levels in our industry. The impact from disasters that result in wide-spread destruction may not be immediately apparent. It is particularly difficult to assess the impact of catastrophic losses on our suppliers and end customers, who themselves may not fully understand the impact of such events on their businesses. Accordingly, there is no assurance that our results of operations will not be materially affected as a result of the impact of future disasters. • Our results of operations could be significantly adversely affected by a continuing, or any future, downturn in the U.S. and global economy. 24 Table of Contents Demand for our heavy truck products is generally dependent on the number of new heavy truck commercial vehicles manufactured in North America. Historically, the demand for heavy truck commercial vehicles has significantly declined during periods of weakness in the North American economy and the corresponding decline in the need for commercial vehicles to haul freight tonnage in North America. Demand for our construction products is also dependent on the overall vehicle demand for new commercial vehicles in the global construction equipment market. Demand in the medium/heavy construction equipment market, which is the market in which our products are primarily used, is typically related to the level of larger-scale infrastructure development projects. Demand in the light construction equipment market is typically related to certain economic conditions such as the level of housing construction and other smaller-scale developments and projects. Downturns in the economy are usually accompanied by related declines in infrastructure development and other construction projects. Accordingly, our results of operations are directly impacted by changes in the U.S. economy and global economic conditions. The substantial downturn in the U.S. and global economies in 2009 significantly lowered demand for our products. This lower demand reduced our revenues by approximately 40% for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the prior year period and reduced our operating income. If we experience periods of low demand for our products in the future, it could have a negative impact on our revenues, operating results and financial position. Any prolonged recession could result in lower earnings and reduced cash flow that, over time, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to fund our operations and capital requirements. • Economic conditions and disruptions in the credit and financial markets could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recently, the financial markets experienced a period of unprecedented turmoil, including the bankruptcy, restructuring or sale of certain financial institutions and the intervention of the U.S. federal government. Disruptions in the credit and financial markets may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition if our ability to borrow money to finance our operations were to be impaired. A crisis in the financial markets may also have a material adverse impact on the availability and cost of credit in the future. Our ability to pay our debt or refinance our obligations under the Loan and Security Agreement and the other agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness (including the indenture governing the 7.875% notes) will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions. Tightening of credit in financial markets may also adversely affect the ability of our customers to obtain financing for significant truck orders and the ability of our suppliers to provide us with sufficient raw materials for our products. If there is any future tightening of the credit markets, our customers’ ability to finance the purchase of new commercial vehicles or our suppliers’ ability to provide us with raw materials may be adversely impacted, either of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. • Our profitability could be adversely affected if the actual production volumes for our customers’ vehicles are significantly lower than expected. We incur costs and make capital expenditures based upon estimates of production volumes for our customers’ vehicles. While we attempt to establish a price for our components and systems that will compensate for variances in production volumes, if the actual production of these vehicles is significantly less than anticipated, our gross margin on these products would be adversely affected. We enter into agreements with our customers at the beginning of a given platform’s life to supply products for that platform. Once we enter into such agreements, fulfillment of our purchasing requirements is our obligation for the entire production life of the platform, with terms ranging from five to seven years, and we have no provisions to terminate such contracts. We may become committed to supply products to our customers at selling prices that are not sufficient to cover the direct cost to produce such products. We cannot predict our customers’ demands for our products either in the aggregate or for particular reporting periods. If customers representing a significant amount of our revenues were to purchase materially lower volumes than expected, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents • Our major OEM customers may exert significant influence over us. The commercial vehicle component supply industry has traditionally been highly fragmented and serves a limited number of large OEMs. As a result, OEMs have historically had a significant amount of leverage over their outside suppliers. Our contracts with major OEM customers generally provide for an annual productivity cost reduction. Historically, cost reductions through product design changes, increased productivity and similar programs with our suppliers have generally offset these customer-imposed productivity cost reduction requirements. However, if we are unable to generate sufficient production cost savings in the future to offset price reductions, our gross margin and profitability would be adversely affected. In addition, changes in OEMs’ purchasing policies or payment practices could have an adverse effect on our business. • We may be unable to successfully implement our business strategy and, as a result, our businesses and financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to achieve our business and financial objectives is subject to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For example, we may not be successful in implementing our strategy if unforeseen factors emerge that diminish the expected growth in the commercial vehicle markets we supply, or we experience increased pressure on our margins. In addition, we may not succeed in integrating strategic acquisitions, and our pursuit of additional strategic acquisitions may lead to resource constraints, which could have a negative impact on our ability to meet customers’ demands, thereby adversely affecting our relationships with those customers. As a result of such business or competitive factors, we may decide to alter or discontinue aspects of our business strategy and may adopt alternative or additional strategies. Any failure to successfully implement our business strategy could adversely affect our business, results of operations and growth potential. Developing product innovations has been and will continue to be a significant part of our business strategy. We believe that it is important that we continue to meet our customers’ demands for product innovation, improvement and enhancement, including the continued development of new-generation products, design improvements and innovations that improve the quality and efficiency of our products. However, such development will require us to continue to invest in research and development and sales and marketing. In the future, we may not have sufficient resources to make such necessary investments, or we may be unable to make the technological advances necessary to carry out product innovations sufficient to meet our customers’ demands. We are also subject to the risks generally associated with product development, including lack of market acceptance, delays in product development and failure of products to operate properly. We may, as a result of these factors, be unable to meaningfully focus on product innovation as a strategy and may therefore be unable to meet our customers’ demands for product innovation. • If we are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, it could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Numerous raw materials are used in the manufacture of our products. Steel, aluminum, petroleum-based products, copper, resin, foam, fabrics, wire and wire components account for the most significant portion of our raw material costs. Although we currently maintain alternative sources for raw materials, our business is subject to the risk of price increases and periodic delays in delivery. For example, we are currently being assessed surcharges on certain purchases of steel, copper and other raw materials. If we are unable to purchase certain raw materials required for our operations for a significant period of time, our operations would be disrupted, and our results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to pass on the increased costs of raw materials to our customers, this could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. • We may be unable to complete additional strategic acquisitions or we may encounter unforeseen difficulties in integrating acquisitions. We may pursue additional acquisition targets that will allow us to continue to expand into new geographic markets, add new customers, provide new product, manufacturing and service capabilities and increase penetration with existing customers. However, we expect to face competition for acquisition candidates, which 26 Table of Contents may limit the number of our acquisition opportunities and may lead to higher acquisition prices. Moreover, acquisitions of businesses may require additional debt financing, resulting in additional leverage. The covenants in the Loan and Security Agreement and the indenture governing the 7.875% notes may further limit our ability to complete acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will find attractive acquisition candidates or successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing business. If we fail to complete additional acquisitions, we may have difficulty competing with more thoroughly integrated competitors and our results of operations could be adversely affected. To the extent that we do complete additional acquisitions, if the expected synergies from such acquisitions do not materialize or we fail to successfully integrate such new businesses into our existing businesses, our results of operations could also be adversely affected. • We may be adversely impacted by labor strikes, work stoppages and other matters. The hourly workforces at our Shadyside, Ohio facility and Mexico operations are unionized. The unionized employees at these facilities represented approximately 49% of our employees in our North American operations as of December 31, 2012. We have experienced limited unionization efforts at certain of our other North American facilities from time to time. In addition, approximately 55% of our employees at our European, Asian and Australian operations were represented by a shop steward committee, which may seek to limit our flexibility in our relationship with these employees. We cannot assure you that we will not encounter future unionization efforts or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees. Many of our OEM customers and their suppliers also have unionized work forces. Work stoppages or slow-downs experienced by OEMs or their other suppliers could result in slow-downs or closures of assembly plants where our products are included in assembled commercial vehicles. In the event that one or more of our customers or their suppliers experience a material work stoppage, such work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our business. • Our businesses are subject to statutory environmental and safety regulations in multiple jurisdictions, and the impact of any changes in regulation and/or the violation of any applicable laws and regulations by our businesses could result in a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to foreign, federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment and occupational health and safety, including laws regulating air emissions, wastewater discharges, generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the soil, ground or air; and the health and safety of our colleagues. We are also required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. We cannot assure you that we are, or have been, in complete compliance with such environmental and safety laws, regulations and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. In some instances, such a fine or sanction could have a material and adverse effect on us. The environmental laws to which we are subject have become more stringent over time, and we could incur material expenses in the future to comply with environmental laws. We are also subject to laws imposing liability for the cleanup of contaminated property. Under these laws, we could be held liable for costs and damages relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third party sites to which we sent waste containing hazardous substances. The amount of such liability could be material. Several of our facilities are either certified as, or are in the process of being certified as ISO 9001, 14000, 14001 or TS16949 (the international environmental management standard) compliant or are developing similar environmental management systems. Although we have made, and will continue to make, capital expenditures to implement such environmental programs and comply with environmental requirements, we do not expect to make material capital expenditures for environmental controls in 2013 or 2014. The environmental laws to which we are subject have become more stringent over time, and we could incur material costs or expenses in the future to comply with environmental laws. 27 Table of Contents Certain of our operations generate hazardous substances and wastes. If a release of such substances or wastes occurs at or from our properties, or at or from any offsite disposal location to which substances or wastes from our current or former operations were taken, or if contamination is discovered at any of our current or former properties, we may be held liable for the costs of cleanup and for any other response by governmental authorities or private parties, together with any associated fines, penalties or damages. In most jurisdictions, this liability would arise whether or not we had complied with environmental laws governing the handling of hazardous substances or wastes. • We may be adversely affected by the impact of government regulations on our OEM customers. Although the products we manufacture and supply to commercial vehicle OEMs are not subject to significant government regulation, our business is indirectly impacted by the extensive governmental regulation applicable to commercial vehicle OEMs. These regulations primarily relate to emissions and noise standards imposed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), state regulatory agencies in North America, such as the California Air Resources Board (“CARB”), and other regulatory agencies around the world. Commercial vehicle OEMs are also subject to the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act and Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards promulgated by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration in the U.S. Changes in emission standards and other proposed governmental regulations could impact the demand for commercial vehicles and, as a result, indirectly impact our operations. For example, new emission standards governing heavy-duty (Class 8) diesel engines that went into effect in the U.S. on October 1, 2002 and January 1, 2007 resulted in significant purchases of new trucks by fleet operators prior to such dates and reduced short term demand for such trucks in periods immediately following such dates. New emission standards for truck engines used in Class 5 to 8 trucks imposed by the EPA and CARB became effective in 2010. In 2011, the EPA and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration adopted a program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve the fuel efficiency of medium-and heavy-duty vehicles. These standards will phase in with increasing stringency in each model year from 2014 to 2018. To the extent that current or future governmental regulation has a negative impact on the demand for commercial vehicles, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. • Our customer base is concentrated and the loss of business from a major customer or the discontinuation of particular commercial vehicle platforms could reduce our revenues. Sales to PACCAR, Daimler Truck, Volvo/Mack, Caterpillar, International (Navistar), Deere & Co. and Oshkosh Corporation accounted for approximately 19%, 15%, 15%, 10%, 7%, 5% and 4%, respectively, of our revenue in 2012, and our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 79% of our revenue in 2012. The loss of any of our largest customers or the loss of significant business from any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even though we may be selected as the supplier of a product by an OEM for a particular vehicle, our OEM customers issue blanket purchase orders which generally provide for the supply of that customer’s annual requirements for that vehicle, rather than for a specific number of our products. If the OEM’s requirements are less than estimated, the number of products we sell to that OEM will be accordingly reduced. In addition, the OEM may terminate its purchase orders with us at any time. • Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We have operations in Europe, Asia, Australia and Mexico, which accounted in the aggregate for approximately 21% of our revenues in 2012. As a result, we generate a significant portion of our sales and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. To the extent that we are unable to match revenues received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations in any such currency could have an adverse effect on our financial results. 28 Table of Contents • We are subject to certain risks associated with our foreign operations. We have operations in Europe, Asia, Australia and Mexico, which accounted in the aggregate for approximately 21%, 24% and 26% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. There are certain risks inherent in our international business activities including, but not limited to: • the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • foreign customers, who may have longer payment cycles than customers in the U.S.; • tax rates in certain foreign countries, which may exceed those in the U.S. withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions, including restrictions on repatriation, on foreign earnings; • intellectual property protection difficulties; • general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, which may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries; • the difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries; and • complications in complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, which may conflict with U.S. law. As we continue to expand our business on a global basis, we are increasingly exposed to these risks. Our success will be dependent, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with foreign operations. We cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or our business, financial condition or results of operations as a whole. • Our inability to compete effectively in the highly competitive commercial vehicle component supply industry could result in lower prices for our products, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. The commercial vehicle component supply industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors are companies, or divisions or subsidiaries of companies that are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. In some cases, we compete with divisions of our OEM customers. For example, the closing of our Norwalk, Ohio truck cab assembly facility in 2010 was a result of Navistar’s decision to insource the cab assembly operations that we performed in that facility into its existing assembly facility in Escobedo, Mexico. Our products primarily compete on the basis of price, breadth of product offerings, product quality, technical expertise and development capability, product delivery and product service. Increased competition may lead to price reductions resulting in reduced gross margins and loss of market share. Current and future competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with others, foresee the course of market development more accurately than we do, develop products that are superior to our products, produce similar products at lower cost than we can or adapt more quickly to new technologies, industry or customer requirements. By doing so, they may enhance their ability to meet the needs of our customers or potential future customers. These developments could limit our ability to obtain revenues from new customers and to maintain existing revenues from our customer base. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors and the failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. • Our products may be rendered less attractive by changes in competitive technologies. Changes in competitive technologies may render certain of our products less attractive. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a 29 Table of Contents timely basis will be a significant factor in our ability to remain competitive. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve the technological advances that may be necessary for us to remain competitive. We are also subject to the risks generally associated with new product introductions and applications, including lack of market acceptance, delays in product development and failure of products to operate properly. • If we are unable to recruit or retain skilled personnel, or if we lose the services of any of our key management personnel, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, train, integrate and retain highly skilled personnel. Competition for these employees is intense. We may not be able to retain our current key employees or attract, train, integrate or retain other highly skilled personnel in the future. Our future success also depends in large part on the continued service of key management personnel, particularly our key executive officers. If we lose the services of one or more of these individuals or other key personnel, or if we are unable to attract, train, integrate and retain the highly skilled personnel we need, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In March 2013, Mervin Dunn announced that he will retire as our President and Chief Executive Officer and resign as a director in 2013. Our board of directors has initiated a search for a successor Chief Executive Officer and director, which will include internal candidates, but, to date, has not identified a successor. While Mr. Dunn has agreed to continue to serve as President and Chief Executive Officer and as a director until his successor is named, if we are unable to identify a suitable candidate to succeed him, or if we are unable successfully manage the search process or effect a smooth transition of his responsibilities to his successor, our business could be adversely affected. • We have only limited protection for our proprietary rights in our intellectual property, which makes it difficult to prevent third parties from infringing upon our rights. Our success depends to a certain degree on our ability to protect our intellectual property and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. While we have been issued patents and have registered trademarks with respect to many of our products, our competitors could independently develop similar or superior products or technologies, duplicate our designs, trademarks, processes or other intellectual property or design around any processes or designs on which we have or may obtain patents or trademark protection. In addition, it is possible that third parties may have or acquire licenses for other technology or designs that we may use or desire to use, so that we may need to acquire licenses to, or to contest the validity of, such patents or trademarks of third parties. Such licenses may not be made available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and we may not prevail in contesting the validity of third party rights. In addition to patent and trademark protection, we also protect trade secrets, know-how and other confidential information against unauthorized use by others or disclosure by persons who have access to them, such as our employees, through contractual arrangements. These arrangements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our revenues could be materially adversely affected. • Our products may be susceptible to claims by third parties that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights. As the number of products in our target markets increases and the functionality of these products further overlaps, we may become increasingly subject to claims by a third party that our technology infringes such party’s proprietary rights. Regardless of their merit, any such claims could be time consuming and expensive to defend, may divert management’s attention and resources, could cause product shipment delays and could 30 Table of Contents require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements. If successful, a claim of infringement against us and our inability to license the infringed or similar technology and/or product could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. • The market price of our common stock may continue to be extremely volatile. Our stock price has fluctuated since our initial public offering in August 2004. The trading price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, including foreign currency exchange fluctuations, the gain or loss of significant orders, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, general conditions in the commercial vehicle industry and other events or factors. In addition, the equity markets in general have recently experienced significant disruptions which have caused substantial volatility in the market price for many companies in industries similar or related to that of ours and which have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These market fluctuations may have affected and may continue to affect the market price of our common stock. • Our operating results, revenues and expenses may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. For a number of reasons, including but not limited to, those described below, our operating results, revenues and expenses have in the past varied and may in the future vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year. These fluctuations could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Fluctuations in Quarterly or Annual Operating Results. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of: • the size, timing, volume and execution of significant orders and shipments; • changes in the terms of our sales contracts; • the timing of new product announcements; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • market acceptance of new and enhanced products; • the length of our sales cycles; • changes in our operating expenses; • personnel changes; • new business acquisitions; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and • seasonal factors. Limited Ability to Adjust Expenses. We base our operating expense budgets primarily on expected revenue trends. Certain of our expenses are relatively fixed and as such we may be unable to adjust expenses quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any shortfall in revenue may cause significant variation in operating results in any quarter or year. Based on the above factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. It is possible that in one or more future quarters or years, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock may be adversely affected. 31 Table of Contents • We may be subject to product liability claims, recalls or warranty claims, which could be expensive, damage our reputation and result in a diversion of management resources. As a supplier of products and systems to commercial vehicle OEMs, we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that our products, or the equipment into which our products are incorporated, malfunction and result in personal injury or death. Product liability claims could result in significant losses as a result of expenses incurred in defending claims or the award of damages. In addition, we may be required to participate in recalls involving systems or components sold by us if any prove to be defective, or we may voluntarily initiate a recall or make payments related to such claims as a result of various industry or business practices or the need to maintain good customer relationships. Such a recall would result in a diversion of management resources. While we do maintain product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that it will be sufficient to cover all product liability claims, that such claims will not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that such insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any product liability claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Moreover, we warrant the workmanship and materials of many of our products under limited warranties and have entered into warranty agreements with certain OEMs that warranty certain of our products in the hands of these OEMs’ customers, in some cases for as long as seven years. Accordingly, we are subject to risk of warranty claims in the event that our products do not conform to our customers’ specifications or, in some cases in the event that our products do not conform to their customers’ expectations. It is possible for warranty claims to result in costly product recalls, significant repair costs and damage to our reputation, all of which would adversely affect our results of operations. • Equipment failures, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss at any of our facilities could lead to production or service curtailments or shutdowns. We manufacture or assemble our products at facilities in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia. An interruption in production or service capabilities at any of these facilities as a result of equipment failure or other reasons could result in our inability to produce our products, which could reduce our net revenues and earnings for the affected period. In the event of a stoppage in production at any of our facilities, even if only temporary, or if we experience delays as a result of events that are beyond our control, delivery times to our customers could be severely affected. Any significant delay in deliveries to our customers could lead to increased returns or cancellations and cause us to lose future revenues. Our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. We may experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failure, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. • Our inability to successfully execute any planned cost reductions, restructuring initiatives or the achievement of operational efficiencies could result in the incurrence of additional costs and expenses that could adversely affect our reported earnings. As part of our business strategy, we continuously seek ways to lower costs, improve manufacturing efficiencies and increase productivity and intend to apply this strategy to those operations acquired through acquisitions. We may be unsuccessful in achieving these objectives which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may incur restructuring charges in the future and such charges could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. • Our earnings may be adversely affected by changes to the carrying values of our tangible and intangible assets as a result of recording any impairment charges deemed necessary. We are required to perform impairment tests whenever events and circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Significant and unanticipated changes in circumstances, such as the general economic 32 Table of Contents environment, changes or downturns in our industry as a whole, termination of any of our customer contracts, restructuring efforts and general workforce reductions, may result in a charge for impairment that can materially and adversely affect our reported net income and our stockholders’ equity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 