Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. Risks Relating to Our Industry Our industry is subject to cyclical fluctuations, including recurring periods of capacity increases, that may adversely affect our results of operations. Display panel manufacturers are vulnerable to cyclical market conditions. Intense competition and expectations of growth in demand across the industry may cause display panel manufacturers to make additional investments in manufacturing capacity on similar schedules, resulting in a surge in capacity when production is ramped up at new fabrication facilities. During such surges in capacity growth, as evidenced by past experiences, our customers can exert strong downward pricing pressure, resulting in sharp declines in average selling prices and significant fluctuations in the panel manufacturers’ gross margins. Conversely, demand surges and fluctuations in the supply chain can lead to price increases. In recent years, there has been a general decline in the average selling price of our display panels. For example, our average revenue per square meter of net display area, which is derived by dividing our total revenue by total square meters of net display area shipped, decreased by 2.9% from US$834 per square meter of net display area in 2009 to US$810 in 2010. In 2011, our average revenue per square meter of net display area shipped further decreased by 16.2% to US$679, resulting mainly from strong downward pressure on the average selling price of our display panels in 2011 which in turn was due in large part to overcapacity in the TFT-LCD industry relative to the demand for such panels, which was negatively impacted by the global economic difficulties in 2011. 7 Table of Contents Our gross margin has also fluctuated from period to period, from 12.8% in 2009 to 14.6% in 2010 and 5.0% in 2011. Principal factors affecting our gross margin include declines in the average selling prices of our display panels, as well as our ability to maintain or increase unit sales volume and market share, minimize the impact of fluctuations in prices and foreign exchange rates and the supply and demand for principal components and raw materials, reduce unit manufacturing costs and introduce new products with higher margins in a timely manner. In 2011, in particular, a decline in the average selling price of our display panels due to downward price pressure affecting TFT-LCD products generally, which in turn resulted from overcapacity in the industry relative to the demand for such products, and the appreciation of the Korean Won against the U.S. dollar contributed to a sharp decrease in our gross margin as compared to 2010. We have reduced utilization rates of our existing fabrication facilities in response to market conditions starting in July 2010 and have been fine-tuning our growth strategies in light of our assessment of future market conditions, and there have been indications that the industry as a whole has been responding similarly. However, construction of new fabrication facilities and other capacity expansion projects in the display panel industry are undertaken with a multiple-year time horizon based on expectations of future market trends. Therefore, there may be continued capacity expansion in the near future due to pre-committed capacity expansion projects in the industry that were undertaken in past years. Any significant industry-wide capacity increases that are not accompanied by a sufficient increase in demand could further drive down the average selling price of our panels, which would negatively affect our gross margin. Since the end of 2011, there has been a modest increase in industry-wide demand for display products, resulting primarily from channel inventory replenishment, in response to which we have been adjusting our utilization rates to meet the increase in demand. However, we cannot provide any assurance that the recent increase in demand reflects any improvement in general market conditions for display panels or that it can be sustained. Any decline in prices may be further compounded by a seasonal weakening in demand growth for end products such as personal computer products, consumer electronics products and mobile and other application products. We cannot provide assurance that any future downturns resulting from any large increases in capacity or other factors affecting the industry would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A global economic downturn may result in reduced demand for our products and adversely affect our profitability. In recent years, difficulties affecting the global financial sectors, adverse conditions and volatility in the worldwide credit and financial markets, fluctuations in oil and commodity prices and the general weakness of the global economy have increased the uncertainty of global economic prospects in general and have adversely affected the global and Korean economies. The recent global economic downturn has adversely affected demand for consumer products manufactured by our customers in Korea and overseas, including televisions, notebook computers, desktop monitors and mobile and other application products utilizing TFT-LCD panels, which in turn led them to reduce or plan reductions of their production beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008. Partly in response to such weak demand, we reduced our TFT-LCD production from July 2008 to February 2009. Although demand for our products, as measured by the number of panels sold, started to recover in the second half of 2009 and generally remained strong in 2010, the renewed global economic difficulties in 2011 contributed to another decline in demand for our products in 2011. While there has been a modest increase in demand for our products in recent months since the end of 2011 resulting primarily from channel inventory replenishment, we cannot provide any assurance that this will lead to a sustained recovery in demand for our products or, even if demand for our products recovers, that the demand for our products will not decrease again in the future due to another such economic downturn which may adversely affect our profitability. We may decide to adjust our production levels in the future subject to market demand for our products, the production outlook of the global display panel industry, in particular, the TFT-LCD industry, and global economic conditions in general. Any decline in demand for display panel products may adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Our industry continues to experience steady declines in the average selling prices of display panels irrespective of cyclical fluctuations in the industry, and our margins would be adversely impacted if prices decrease faster than we are able to reduce our costs. The average selling prices of display panels have declined in general and are expected to continually decline with time irrespective of industry-wide cyclical fluctuations as a result of, among other factors, technological advancements and cost reductions. Although we may be able to take advantage of the higher selling prices typically associated with new products and technologies when they are first introduced in the market, such prices decline over time, and in certain cases, very rapidly, as a result of market competition or otherwise. If we are unable to effectively anticipate and counter the price erosion that accompanies our products, or if the average selling prices of our display panels decrease faster than the speed at which we are able to reduce our manufacturing costs, our gross margin would decrease and our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive environment and we may not be able to sustain our current market position. The display panel industry is highly competitive. We have experienced pressure on the prices and margins of our major products due largely to additional industry capacity from panel makers in Korea, Taiwan, China and Japan. Our main competitors in the industry include Samsung Display (which was recently spun off from Samsung Electronics), Samsung Mobile Display, InfoVision Optoelectronics, Hydis Technologies, AU Optronics, Chimei Innolux, Chunghwa Picture Tubes, HannStar Display, SVA-NEC, Beijing BOE Optronics Technology, Japan Display (which was recently created by integrating the LCD panel businesses of Hitachi and TMDisplay, as well as certain businesses of Sony Mobile Display), Sharp, Mitsubishi and Panasonic LCD. Some of our competitors may currently, or at some point in the future, have greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, research and development or technological resources than we do. In addition, our competitors may be able to manufacture panels on a larger scale or with greater cost efficiencies than we do and we anticipate increases in production capacity in the future by other display panel manufacturers using similar display panel technologies as us. Any price erosion resulting from strong global competition or additional industry capacity may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, industry consolidation among our competitors may result in increased competition as the entities emerging from such consolidation may have greater financial, manufacturing, research and development and other resources than we do, especially if such mergers or consolidations are sponsored by a government entity. Increased competition resulting from such mergers or consolidations may lead to decreased margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We and our competitors each seek to establish our own products as the industry standards. For example, in the growing large-sized television panel market, we currently manufacture primarily 32-inch, 37-inch, 42-inch, 47-inch and 55-inch television panels. Other display panel manufacturers produce competing large-sized television panels in slightly different dimensions. If our competitors’ panels become the standard market size, we may lose market share, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to compete successfully also depends on factors both within and outside our control, including product pricing, performance and reliability, our relationship with customers, successful and timely investment and product development, success or failure of our end-brand customers in marketing their brands and products, component and raw material supply costs, and general economic and industry conditions. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain a competitive edge with respect to all these factors and, as a result, we may be unable to sustain our current market position. Our operating results fluctuate from period to period, so you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons to predict our future performance. Our industry is affected by market conditions that are often outside the control of manufacturers. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to a number of factors, including seasonal variations in consumer demand, capacity ramp-up by competitors, industry-wide technological changes, the loss of a key customer and the postponement, rescheduling or cancellation of large orders by a key customer, any of which may or may not reflect a continued trend from one period to the next. As a result of these factors and other risks discussed in this section, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons to predict our future performance. Risks Relating to Our Company Our financial condition may be adversely affected if we cannot introduce new products to adapt to rapidly evolving customer needs on a timely basis. Our success will depend greatly on our ability to respond quickly to emerging customer requirements and to develop new and differentiated products in anticipation of future demand. Any delay in our development of commercially successful products with reliable quality and advanced features that address our customers’ evolving needs may adversely affect our business. Success of a new product also depends on other factors such as close cooperation with our customers to gain insights into their product needs and to understand general trends in the market. When developing new products, we often work with equipment suppliers to design equipment that will make our production processes for such new products more efficient. If we are unable to work together with our customers and equipment suppliers, or to sufficiently understand their respective needs and capabilities or general market trends, we may not be able to introduce new products in a timely manner, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial situation. 9 Table of Contents We plan to continue to grow our operations to meet increasing demands for new applications in consumer electronics and other markets. Because these products, such as televisions and mobile devices, are expected to be marketed to a diverse group of end users with different specifications, functions and prices, we have developed differentiated sales and marketing strategies to promote our panels for these products. We cannot provide assurance that our growth strategy or our differentiated sales and marketing strategies for these panels will be successful. Problems with product quality, including defects, in our products could result in a decrease in customers and sales, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. Our products are manufactured using advanced and often new technology and must meet stringent quality requirements. Products manufactured using advanced and new technology such as ours may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced. For example, our TFT-LCD panels may contain defects that are not detected until after they are shipped or installed because we cannot test for all possible scenarios. Such defects could cause us to incur significant re-designing costs, divert the attention of our technology personnel from product development efforts and significantly affect our customer relations and business reputation. In addition, future product failures could cause us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products. We recognize a provision for warranty obligations based on the estimated costs that we expect to incur under our basic limited warranty for our products, which covers defective products and is normally valid for eighteen months from the date of purchase. The warranty provision is largely based on historical and anticipated rates of warranty claims, and therefore we cannot provide assurance that the provision would be sufficient to cover any surge in future warranty expenses that significantly exceed historical and anticipated rates of warranty claims. In addition, if we deliver products with errors or defects, or if there is a perception that our products contain errors or defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed. Widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. We sell our products to a select group of key customers, including our largest shareholder, and any significant decrease in their order levels will negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our sales is attributable to a limited group of end-brand customers and their designated system integrators. Sales attributed to our end-brand customers are for their end-brand products and do not include sales to these customers for their system integration activities for other end-brand products, if any. Our top ten end-brand customers, including LG Electronics, our largest shareholder, together accounted for 76.5% of our sales in 2009, 75.8% in 2010 and 70.9% in 2011. Our top five end-brand customers together accounted for 55.1% of our sales in 2009, 55.0% in 2010 and 53.6% in 2011. In 2011, only two end-brand customers, LG Electronics and Apple, contributed to 10% or more of our sales. We benefit from the strong collaborative relationships we maintain with our end-brand customers by participating in the development of their products and gaining insights about levels of future demand for our products and other industry trends. Customers look to us for a dependable supply of quality products, even during downturns in the industry, and we benefit from the brand recognition of our customers’ end products. The loss of these end-brand customers, as a result of their entering into strategic supplier arrangements with our competitors or otherwise, would thus result not only in reduced sales, but also in the loss of these benefits. In addition, we engage in related party transactions with LG Electronics, our largest shareholder, and its affiliates: • Sales to LG Electronics – sales to LG Electronics (including its overseas subsidiaries) on an invoiced basis, which include sales to LG Electronics both as an end-brand customer and a system integrator, amounted to 25.9%, 24.8% and 21.4% of our sales in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. • Sales to LG International – sales to LG International Corp. and its subsidiaries on an aggregate basis amounted to 7.3%, 8.8% and 6.3% of our sales in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. We expect that we will continue to be dependent upon LG Electronics and its affiliates for a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. See “Item 7.B. Related Party Transactions” for a description of these related party transactions with LG Electronics and its affiliates. Our results of operations and financial condition could be affected by the overall performance of LG Electronics and its affiliates. 10 Table of Contents We cannot provide assurance that a select group of key end-brand customers, including our largest shareholder, will continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods, or at all. Any material deterioration in the financial condition of our key end-brand customers, their system integrators or our affiliated trading company will have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our top ten end-brand customers together accounted for 76.5% of our sales in 2009, 75.8% in 2010 and 70.9% in 2011. Although we negotiate directly with our end-brand customers concerning the price and quantity of the sales, for some sales transactions we invoice the end-brand customers’ designated system integrators. In addition, a portion of our sales to end-brand customers and their system integrators located in certain regions are sold through our affiliated trading company, LG International and its subsidiaries. Our credit policy typically requires payment within 30 to 90 days, and payments on the vast majority of our sales have typically been collected within 65 days. Although we have not experienced any material problems relating to customer payments to date, as a result of our significant dependence on a concentrated group of end-brand customers and their designated system integrators, as well as the sales we make to our affiliated trading company and its subsidiaries, we are exposed to credit risks associated with these entities. Consolidation and other changes at our end-brand customers could cause sales of our products to decline. Mergers, acquisitions, divestments or consolidations involving our end-brand customers can present risks to our business, as management at the new entity may change the way they do business, including their transactions with us, or may decide not to use us as one of their suppliers of TFT-LCD or other products. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that a combined entity resulting from a merger, acquisition or consolidation or a newly formed entity resulting from a divestment will continue to purchase TFT-LCD or other panels from us at the same level, if at all, as each entity purchased in the aggregate when they were separate companies or that a divested company will purchase panels from us at the same level, if at all, as prior to the divestment. Our results of operations depend on our ability to keep pace with changes in technology. Advances in technology typically lead to rapid declines in sales volumes for products made with older technologies and may lead to these products becoming less competitive in the marketplace, or even obsolete. As a result, we will likely be required to make significant expenditures to develop or acquire new process and product technologies. In particular, many TFT-LCD panel producers, including us, are currently focused on developing 3D televisions and other 3D products using the latest technology in order to gain a competitive advantage in this relatively new market for 3D products. In addition, the rapidly expanding mobile display market for smart devices such as smartphones and certain tablet personal computers has resulted in increased demand for display panels using new energy-efficient technologies that provide for greater resolutions, wider viewing angles, high light transmittance and stability of images even when used on a touchscreen device. We have introduced mobile display products based on Advanced High-Performance In-Plane Switching technology, or AH-IPS, which have helped us quickly secure a leading role in this market. While the TFT-LCD technology undergoes continued innovation, we and our competitors are also developing new display technologies that depart from TFT-LCD technology, such as organic light-emitting diode, or OLED, electronic paper display and flexible display. In particular, we and some of our competitors have already commenced commercial production of OLED display products. We commenced mass production of OLED display panels in September 2011 and reached a monthly input capacity of 12,000 substrates by the end of 2011. In addition, with the recent unveiling of our 55-inch OLED television panel, we intend to deploy greater resources in expanding our OLED display panel fabrication capabilities with the aim of establishing an early competitive edge in the market. We expect to commence mass production of OLED panels primarily for use in televisions in the second half of 2012. Also, our ability to manufacture our products by utilizing advanced process technologies to increase production yields at low production cost will be critical to our sustained competitiveness. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to successfully develop new products through our research and development efforts or through obtaining technology licenses, or that we will keep pace with technological changes in the marketplace. 11 Table of Contents Our revenue depends on continuing demand for televisions, notebook computers, desktop monitors and mobile and other application products with panels of the type we produce. Our sales may not grow at the rate we expect if consumers do not purchase these products. Currently, our total sales are derived principally from customers using our products in televisions, notebook computers, desktop monitors and mobile and other application products with display devices. In particular, a substantial percentage of our sales is increasingly derived from end-brand customers, or their designated system integrators, who use our panels in their televisions, which accounted for 54.7%, 55.2% and 47.7% of our total revenue in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. A substantial portion of our sales is also derived from end-brand customers, or their designated system integrators, who use our panels in their notebook computers, which accounted for 17.8%, 17.3% and 21.1% of our total revenue in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively, those who use our panels in their desktop monitors, which accounted for 23.2%, 21.1% and 20.5% of our total revenue in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively, and those who use our panels in their mobile and other applications, which accounted for 4.1%, 6.2% and 10.4% of our total revenue in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Although our dependence on sales of television panels decreased in 2011, television panels remain our largest product category in terms of revenue and we will therefore continue to be dependent on growth of the television industry. In addition, we will continue to be dependent on the growth of the personal computer industry, as well as the mobile device industry for a substantial portion of our sales. Any downturn in any of those industries in which our customers operate would result in reduced demand for our products, reduced revenues, lower average selling prices and/or reduced margins. The introduction of alternative display panel technologies, including those currently under development by our competitors and us, may erode future sales of TFT-LCD panels, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. New display technologies, such as OLED, electronic paper display and flexible display, which are at various stages of development by us and other display panel makers, may gain wider market acceptance than TFT-LCD technology for use in certain products, such as smartphones, certain other types of tablet personal computers and industrial and other applications, including entertainment systems, automotives, portable navigation devices, e-books, digital photo displays and medical diagnostic equipment. If consumers do not purchase products utilizing TFT-LCD panels as we expect, or if TFT-LCD technology itself is rendered obsolete, this would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations to the extent we cannot offset such loss in demand for TFT-LCD products by selling products using other display technologies. We will have significant capital requirements in connection with our business strategy and if capital resources are not available we may not be able to implement our strategy and future plans. In connection with our strategy to further enhance the diversity and capacity of our display panel production, we estimate that we will continue to incur significant capital expenditures for the enhancement of existing production facilities, including the construction of additional production lines, and the construction of new production facilities. In March 2011, we commenced mass production at P83, the second expansion to our eighth generation fabrication facility, P81. We are currently constructing P98, a new eighth generation panel fabrication facility located in our Paju Display Cluster in Paju, Korea. We expect mass production to commence at P98 in the second quarter of 2012. In addition, we are currently in the planning stages for the construction of an eighth-generation panel fabrication facility in Guangzhou, China, for which we received final approval from the Chinese government in November 2010. In January 2011, we signed a memorandum of understanding with Gumi City to extend administrative support for our plans to invest (Won)1.35 trillion and expand our production facilities over the next five years in Gumi, Korea. In 2011, our total capital expenditure on a cash out basis amounted to approximately (Won)4.1 trillion. In 2012, we expect that our total capital expenditures on a cash out basis will amount to approximately (Won)4 trillion. Such amounts are subject to periodic assessment, and we cannot provide any assurance that such amounts may not change materially after assessment. These capital expenditures will be made well in advance of any additional sales that will be generated from these expenditures. However, in the event of adverse market conditions, or if our actual expenditures far exceed our planned expenditures, our external financing activities combined with our internal sources of liquidity may not be sufficient to effect our current and future operational plans, and we may decide not to expand the capacity of certain of our facilities or construct new production facilities as scheduled or at all. Our ability to obtain additional financing will depend upon a number of factors outside our control, including general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other considerations. 12 Table of Contents In recent years, difficulties affecting the global financial sectors, adverse conditions and volatility in the worldwide credit and financial markets, fluctuations in oil and commodity prices and the general weakness of the global economy have increased the uncertainty of global economic prospects in general and have adversely affected the global and Korean economies. Because we rely on financing both within and outside of Korea from time to time, the difficulties affecting the global and Korean economies, including any increase in market volatility and their lingering effects, could adversely affect our ability to obtain sufficient financing on commercially reasonable terms. The failure to obtain sufficient financing on commercially reasonable terms to complete our expansion plans could delay or derail our ability to pursue our business strategy, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our manufacturing processes are complex and periodic improvements to increase efficiency can expose us to potential disruptions in operations. The manufacturing process for TFT-LCD and other display products is highly complex, requiring sophisticated and costly equipment that is periodically modified and updated to improve manufacturing yields and product performance, and reduce unit manufacturing costs. These updates expose us to the risk that from time to time production difficulties will arise that could cause delivery delays, reduced output or both. We cannot provide assurance that we will not experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable output, product delivery delays or both as a result of, among other factors, construction delays, difficulties in upgrading or modifying existing production lines or ramping up new plants, difficulties in changing manufacturing line technologies or delays in equipment deliveries, any of which could constrain our capacity and adversely affect our results of operations. We may be unable to successfully execute our growth strategy or manage and sustain our growth on a timely basis, if at all, and, as a result, our business may be harmed. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, rapid growth in the scope and complexity of our operations. For example, with respect to our Korean facilities in recent years, we enhanced our capacity by commencing mass production at P81, our first eighth-generation fabrication facility, in March 2009, at P62, an expansion to our P61 fabrication facility, in April 2009, at P82, the first expansion to our P81 fabrication facility, in May 2010, and at P83, the second expansion to our P81 fabrication facility, in March 2011. In addition, we have continually made investments in our other facilities, including our low temperature polycrystalline silicon, or LTPS, fabrication facility. We are currently constructing P98, a new eighth-generation fabrication facility, and we expect to commence mass production at P98 in the second quarter of 2012. In January 2011, we signed a memorandum of understanding with Gumi City to extend administrative support for our plans to invest (Won)1.35 trillion and expand our production facilities over the next five years in Gumi, Korea. With respect to our overseas facilities in recent years, we commenced mass production at our module production plant in Wroclaw, Poland, in March 2007 and at our module production plant in Guangzhou, China, in December 2007. In addition, we are currently in the planning stages for the construction of an eighth-generation panel fabrication facility in Guangzhou, China, for which we received final approval from the Chinese government in November 2010. In March 2012, we commenced mass production at our module production plant in Reynosa, Mexico. See also “—We will have significant capital requirements in connection with our business strategy and if capital resources are not available we may not be able to implement our strategy and future plans” above. This sustained growth may strain our managerial, financial, manufacturing and other resources. We may experience manufacturing difficulties in starting new production lines, upgrading existing facilities or ramping up new plants, as a result of cost overruns, construction delays or shortages of, or quality problems with, materials, labor or equipment, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues. In addition, failure to keep up with our competitors in future investments in next generation panel fabrication facilities or in the manufacturing capacity of existing facilities would impair our ability to effectively compete within the display panel industry. Failure to obtain intended economic benefits from expansion projects could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot maintain high capacity utilization rates, our profitability will be adversely affected. The production of TFT-LCD panels entails high fixed costs resulting from considerable expenditures for the construction of complex fabrication and assembly facilities and the purchase of costly equipment. We aim to maintain high capacity utilization rates so that we can allocate these fixed costs over a greater number of panels produced and realize a higher gross margin. However, due to any number of reasons, including weak demand for our products or overcapacity in the industry, we may need to reduce production, resulting in lower-than-optimal capacity utilization rates. For example, partly due to weak demand, we reduced our TFT-LCD production from July 2008 to February 2009 and again starting from July 2010. As such, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to sustain our capacity utilization rates in the future. 13 Table of Contents Limited availability of raw materials, components and manufacturing equipment could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our production operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of quality raw materials and components on a timely basis. As a result, it is important for us to control our raw material and component costs and reduce the effects of fluctuations in price and availability. In general, we source most of our raw materials as well as key components, such as backlight units, glass substrates, driver integrated circuits and polarizers used in our TFT-LCD products, from two or more suppliers for each key component. However, we may establish a working relationship with a single supplier if we believe it is advantageous to do so due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, price or other considerations. We may experience shortages in the supply of these key components, as well as other components or raw materials, as a result of, among other things, anticipated capacity expansion in the TFT-LCD industry or our dependence on a limited number of suppliers. Our results of operations would be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain adequate supplies of high-quality raw materials or components in a timely manner or make alternative arrangements for such supplies in a timely manner. Furthermore, we may be limited in our ability to pass on increases in the costs of raw materials and components to our customers. We do not typically enter into binding long-term contracts with our customers, and even in those cases where we do enter into long-term agreements with certain of our major end-brand customers, the price terms are contained in the purchase orders which are generally placed by them one month in advance of delivery. Except under certain special circumstances, the price terms in the purchase orders are not subject to change. Prices for our products are generally determined through negotiations with our customers, based generally on the complexity of the product specifications and the labor and technology involved in the design or production processes. However, if we become subject to any significant increase in the costs of raw materials or components that were not anticipated when negotiating the price terms after the purchase orders have been placed, we may be unable to pass on such cost increases to our customers. We have purchased, and expect to purchase, a substantial portion of our equipment from a limited number of qualified foreign and local suppliers. From time to time, increased demand for new equipment may cause lead times to extend beyond those normally required by the equipment vendors. The unavailability of equipment, delays in the delivery of equipment, or the delivery of equipment that does not meet our specifications, could delay implementation of our expansion plans and impair our ability to meet customer orders. This could result in a loss of revenues and cause financial stress on our operations. Earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and other natural calamities could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. A number of suppliers of our raw materials, components and manufacturing equipment, as well as customers of our products, are located in Japan, which has suffered an earthquake and tsunami in March 2011 (which also resulted in the release of radioactive materials from a nuclear plant that had been damaged by the earthquake). We believe that the impact was not material to our financial condition or operating results as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011. However, there still remain some uncertainties such that the full extent and duration of the impact of the events in Japan may not be fully known and therefore it may be possible that we may in the future experience shortages or delays in the supply of raw materials, components or manufacturing equipment from our suppliers in Japan, or reduced demand for our products from our customers in Japan. If we experience such supply constraints or reduced demand for our products in Japan, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. Furthermore, in October 2011, there were massive floods in Thailand, which we understand may have adversely affected suppliers of certain components for some of our end customers, in particular, notebook computer manufacturers. We believe that the floods did not have a material impact on our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2011. However, if earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or any other natural calamities were to occur in the future in any area where any of our assets, suppliers or customers are located, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. Purchase orders from our customers, which are placed generally one month in advance of delivery, vary in volume from period to period, and we operate with a modest inventory, which may make it difficult for us to efficiently allocate capacity on a timely basis in response to changes in demand. Our major customers and their designated system integrators provide us with three- to six-month rolling forecasts of their product requirements. However, firm orders are not placed until one month before delivery when negotiations on purchase prices are also finalized. Firm orders may be less than anticipated based on these three- to six-month forecasts. Due to the cyclicality of the TFT-LCD industry, purchase order levels from our customers have varied from period to period. Although we typically operate with a two- to four-week inventory, it may be difficult for us to adjust production costs or to allocate production capacity in a timely manner to compensate for any such volatility in order volumes. Our inability to respond quickly to changes in overall demand for TFT-LCD products as well as changes in product mix and specifications may result in lost revenue, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We may experience losses on inventories. Frequent new product introductions in the computer and consumer electronics industries can result in a decline in the average selling prices of our TFT-LCD panels and the obsolescence of our existing TFT-LCD panel inventory. This can result in a decrease in the stated value of our TFT-LCD panel inventory, which we value at the lower of cost or market value. We manage our inventory based on our customers’ and our own forecasts and typically operate with a two- to four-week inventory. Although adjustments are regularly made based on market conditions, we typically deliver our goods to the customers one month after a firm order has been placed. While we maintain open channels of communication with our major customers to avoid unexpected decreases in firm orders or subsequent changes to placed orders, and try to minimize our inventory levels, such actions by our customers may have an adverse effect on our inventory management. Sanctions or judgments against us and other TFT-LCD panel producers for possible anti-competitive activities may have a direct and indirect material impact on our operations. In December 2006, LG Display received notices of investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice, the European Commission, the Korea Fair Trade Commission and the Japan Fair Trade Commission with respect to possible anti-competitive activities in the TFT-LCD industry. LG Display subsequently received similar notices from the Competition Bureau of Canada, the Secretariat of Economic Law of Brazil, the Taiwan Fair Trade Commission and the Federal Competition Commission of Mexico. In November 2008, LG Display executed an agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice whereby LG Display and LG Display America pleaded guilty to a Sherman Antitrust Act violation and agreed to pay a single total fine of US$400 million. In December 2008, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California accepted the terms of the plea agreement and entered a judgment against LG Display and LG Display America and ordered the payment of US$400 million. The agreement resolved all federal criminal charges against LG Display and LG Display America in the United States in connection with this matter, provided that LG Display continues to cooperate with the U.S. Department of Justice in connection with the ongoing proceedings. In December 2010, the European Commission issued a decision finding that LG Display engaged in anti-competitive activities in the TFT-LCD industry in violation of European Union competition laws, and imposed a fine of €215 million. In February 2011, LG Display filed with the European Union General Court an application for partial annulment and reduction of the fine imposed by the European Commission. As of April 29, 2012, the European Union General Court has not ruled on LG Display’s application. In November 2011, LG Display received a request for information from the European Commission relating to certain alleged anti-competitive activities in the TFT-LCD industry and has responded to the request. In November 2009, the Taiwan Fair Trade Commission terminated its investigation without any finding of violations or levying of fines. Also, in February 2012, the Competition Bureau of Canada terminated its investigation without any finding of violations or levying of fines. As of April 29, 2012, no decision has been issued by the Japan Fair Trade Commission, and we believe the statutory time period by which the Commission was required to have issued a decision has already lapsed. As of April 29, 2012, investigations by the Federal Competition Commission of Mexico and the Secretariat of Economic Law of Brazil are ongoing. In December 2011, the Korea Fair Trade Commission imposed a fine of (Won)31.4 billion after finding that LG Display and certain of its subsidiaries engaged in anti-competitive activities in violation of Korean fair trade laws. In December 2011, LG Display filed an appeal of the decision with the Seoul High Court. As of April 29, 2012, the Seoul High Court has not ruled on LG Display’s appeal. After the commencement of the U.S. Department of Justice investigation, a number of class action complaints were filed against LG Display, LG Display America and other TFT-LCD panel manufacturers in the United States and Canada alleging violation of respective antitrust laws and related laws. In a series of decisions in 2007 and 2008, the class action lawsuits in the United States were transferred to the Northern District of California for pretrial proceedings (“MDL Proceedings”). In March 2010, the federal district court granted the class certification motion filed by the indirect purchaser plaintiffs, and granted in part and denied in part the class certification motion filed by the direct purchaser plaintiffs. In January 2011, 78 entities (including groups of affiliated entities) submitted requests for exclusion from the direct purchaser class. The time period for submitting requests for exclusion from the indirect purchaser class expired on April 13, 2012. In addition, since 2010, the attorneys general of Arkansas, California, Florida, Illinois, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New York, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Carolina, Washington, West Virginia and Wisconsin filed complaints against LG Display, alleging similar antitrust violations as alleged in the MDL Proceedings. 15 Table of Contents In June 2011, LG Display reached a settlement with the direct purchaser class, which the federal district court approved in December 2011. In late April 2012, LG Display reached a settlement-in-principle with the indirect purchaser class plaintiffs and with the state attorneys general of Arkansas, California, Florida, Michigan, Missouri, New York, West Virginia and Wisconsin, which is subject to court approval and, in the case of the state attorneys general actions, subject to approval by their respective state governments. Once the settlement-in-principle is approved, only the Illinois, Mississippi, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Carolina and Washington attorneys general actions will remain pending. While the Oklahoma and Oregon attorneys general actions are pending in the MDL Proceedings, the Illinois and Washington attorneys general actions are pending in their respective state courts, and the Mississippi and South Carolina attorneys general actions are pending in federal courts in their respective districts. In addition, in relation to the MDL Proceedings, in 2009, ATS Claim, LLC (assignee of Ricoh Electronics, Inc.), AT&T Corp. and its affiliates, Motorola, Inc., and Electrograph Technologies Corp. and its subsidiary filed separate claims in the United States, and all of the actions were subsequently consolidated into the MDL Proceedings. In November 2010, ATS Claim, LLC dismissed its action as to LG Display pursuant to a settlement agreement. In addition, in 2010, TracFone Wireless Inc., Best Buy Co., Inc. and its affiliates, Target Corp., Sears, Roebuck and Co., Kmart Corp., Old Comp Inc., Good Guys, Inc., RadioShack Corp., Newegg Inc., Costco Wholesale Corp., Sony Electronics, Inc., Sony Computer Entertainment America LLC, SB Liquidation Trust and the trustee of the Circuit City Stores, Inc. Liquidation Trust filed claims in the United States. In addition, in 2011, the AASI Creditor Liquidating Trust on behalf of All American Semiconductor Inc., Compucom Systems, Inc., Interbond Corporation of America, Jaco Electronics, Inc., Office Depot, Inc., P.C. Richard & Son Long Island Corporation, MARTA Cooperative of America, Inc., ABC Appliance, Inc., Schultze Agency Services, LLC on behalf of Tweeter Opco, LLC and Tweeter Newco, LLC,T-Mobile U.S.A., Inc., Tech Data Corporation and Tech Data Product Management, Inc. filed similar claims in the United States. In 2012, ViewSonic Corp., NECO Alliance LLC and Rockwell Automation LLC filed similar claims. To the extent these claims were not filed in the MDL Proceedings, they have been transferred or are expected to be transferred to the MDL Proceedings for pretrial proceedings. In Canada, the Ontario Superior Court of Justice certified the class action complaints filed by the direct and indirect purchasers in May 2011. LG Display is pursuing an appeal of the decision as well as defending the on-going class actions in Quebec and British Columbia. In February 2007, LG Display and certain of its current and former officers and directors were named as defendants in a purported shareholder class action in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, alleging violation of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In May 2010, the defendants, including LG Display, reached an agreement in principle with the class plaintiffs to settle the action and, in March 2011, the district court granted final approval of the settlement. In each of these ongoing matters, we are continually evaluating the merits of the respective claims and vigorously defending ourselves. Irrespective of the validity or the successful assertion of the claims described above, we may incur significant costs with respect to litigating or settling any or all of the asserted claims. See “Item 8.A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings—Antitrust and Others” for a description of these matters. While we continue to vigorously defend the various proceedings described above, it is possible that one or more proceedings may result in an unfavorable outcome. We have recognized provisions in 2011 with respect to those contingencies in which our management has concluded that the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of loss is reasonably estimable. However, actual liability may be materially different from that estimated as of December 31, 2011 and may have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. 16 Table of Contents We need to observe certain financial and other covenants under the terms of our debt instruments, the failure to comply with which would put us in default under those instruments. Certain of our debt instruments contain financial and other covenants with which we are required to comply on an annual and semi-annual basis. The financial covenants include, but are not limited to, maintenance of credit ratings and debt-to-equity ratios. The documentation for such debt also contains negative pledge provisions limiting our ability to provide liens on our assets as well as cross-default and cross-acceleration clauses, which give related creditors the right to accelerate the amounts due under such debt if an event of default or acceleration has occurred with respect to our existing or future indebtedness, or if any material part of our indebtedness or indebtedness of our subsidiaries is capable of being declared payable before the stated maturity date. In addition, such covenants restrict our ability to raise future debt financing. If we breach the financial or other covenants in our debt instruments, our financial condition will be adversely affected to the extent we are not able to cure such breaches, obtain a waiver from the relevant debtholders or repay the relevant debt. Our results of operations are subject to exchange rate fluctuations. There has been considerable volatility in foreign exchange rates in recent years, including rates between the Won and the U.S. dollar. To the extent that we incur costs in one currency and make sales in another, our profit margins may be affected by changes in the exchange rates between the two currencies. Our sales of display panels are denominated mainly in U.S. dollars, whereas our purchases of raw materials are denominated mainly in U.S. dollars and Japanese Yen. Our expenditures on capital equipment are denominated principally in Korean Won. In 2011, 95.8% of our sales were denominated in U.S. dollars. During the same period, 74.5% of our purchases of raw materials were denominated in U.S. dollars and 24.3% in Japanese Yen. In addition, approximately 77% of our equipment purchases and construction costs, which represented almost all of our total capital expenditures in 2011, were denominated in Korean Won. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates, in particular between the U.S. dollar and the Korean Won as well as between the Japanese Yen and the Korean Won, affect our operating profits and pre-tax income. From the second half of 2008 to the first half of 2010, the value of the Won relative to the U.S. dollar in particular fluctuated widely. See “Item 3.A. Selected Financial Data—Exchange Rates.” During this period, the value of the Won relative to the Japanese Yen has also fluctuated significantly. Although a depreciation of the Korean Won against the U.S. dollar or the Japanese Yen increases the Korean Won value of our export sales and enhances the price-competitiveness of our products in foreign markets in U.S. dollar or Japanese Yen terms, it also increases the cost of imported raw materials in Korean Won terms and our cost in Korean Won of servicing our foreign currency debt. In addition, continued exchange rate volatility may also result in foreign exchange losses for us. Although a depreciation of the Korean Won against the U.S. dollar, in general, has a net positive impact on our results of operations that more than offsets the net negative impact caused by a depreciation of the Korean Won against the Japanese Yen, we cannot provide assurance that the exchange rate of the Korean Won against foreign currencies will not be subject to significant fluctuations, including a sharp appreciation of the Korean Won against the U.S. dollar or the Japanese Yen, or that the impact of such fluctuations will not adversely affect the results of our operations. Our business relies on our patent rights which may be narrowed in scope or found to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable. Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to obtain and enforce our patent rights both in Korea and worldwide. The coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before a patent is issued, either in Korea or abroad. Consequently, we cannot provide assurance that any of our pending or future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents. Patents issued to us may be subjected to further proceedings limiting their scope and may not provide significant proprietary protection or competitive advantage. Our patents also may be challenged, circumvented, invalidated or deemed unenforceable. In addition, because patent applications in certain countries generally are not published until more than 18 months after they are first filed, because we currently monitor patent applications filed only by other parties in Korea, Japan and the United States, and because publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were, or any of our licensors was, the first creator of inventions covered by pending patent applications, that we or any of our licensors will be entitled to any rights in purported inventions claimed in pending or future patent applications, or that we were, or any of our licensors was, the first to file patent applications on such inventions. Furthermore, pending patent applications or patents already issued to us or our licensors may become subject to dispute, and any dispute could be resolved against us. For example, we may become involved in re-examination, reissue or interference proceedings and the result of these proceedings could be the invalidation or substantial narrowing of our patent claims. We also could be subject to court proceedings that could find our patents invalid or unenforceable or could substantially narrow the scope of our patent claims. In addition, depending on the jurisdiction, statutory differences in patentable subject matter may limit the protection we can obtain on some of our inventions. 17 Table of Contents Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could impair our competitiveness and harm our business and future prospects. We believe that developing new products and technologies that can be differentiated from those of our competitors is critical to the success of our business. We take active measures to obtain international protection of our intellectual property by obtaining patents and undertaking monitoring activities in our major markets. However, we cannot assure you that the measures we are taking will effectively deter competitors from improper use of our proprietary technologies. Our competitors may misappropriate our intellectual property, disputes as to ownership of intellectual property may arise and our intellectual property may otherwise become known or independently developed by our competitors. Any failure to protect our intellectual property could impair our competitiveness and harm our business and future prospects. Our rapid introduction of new technologies and products may increase the likelihood that third parties will assert claims that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights. Although we take and will continue to take steps to ensure that our new products do not infringe upon third party rights, the rapid technological changes that characterize our industry require that we quickly implement new processes and components with respect to our products. Often with respect to recently developed processes and components, a degree of uncertainty exists as to who may rightfully claim ownership rights in such processes and components. Uncertainty of this type increases the risk that claims alleging that such components or processes infringe upon third party rights may be brought against us. If our products or manufacturing processes are found to infringe upon third party rights, we may be subject to significant liabilities and be required to change our manufacturing processes or be prohibited from manufacturing certain products, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We may be required to defend against charges of infringement of patent or other proprietary rights of third parties. Although patent and other intellectual property disputes in our industry have often been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, such defense could require us to incur substantial expense and to divert significant resources of our technical and management personnel, and could result in our loss of rights to develop or make certain products or require us to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that the necessary licenses would be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling certain of our products. Any such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversions of our resources, either of which could adversely affect our business. In December 2006, LG Display filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware against Chi Mei Optoelectronics Corp. and AU Optronics Corp. claiming infringement of patents related to liquid crystal displays and the manufacturing processes for TFT-LCDs and seeking, among other things, monetary damages for past infringement and an injunction against future infringement. In March 2007, AU Optronics filed a counter-claim against LG Display and its U.S. subsidiary, LG Display America, in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin for alleged infringement of patents related to the manufacturing processes for TFT-LCDs, but the suit was transferred to the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware in May 2007. In May 2007, Chi Mei Optoelectronics filed a counter-claim against LG Display and LG Display America for patent infringement in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, but the suit was transferred to the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware in March 2008. The U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware bifurcated the trial between AU Optronics and Chi Mei Optoelectronics, holding the first trial against AU Optronics in June 2009. Although LG Display had a total of nine patents to be tried and AU Optronics had a total of seven patents to be tried in the first trial against AU Optronics, the trial was further bifurcated so that only four patents from each side were tried. In February 2010, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware found that the four AU Optronics patents were valid and were infringed by LG Display and LG Display America, and in April 2010, the court further found that LG Display’s four patents were valid but were not infringed by AU Optronics. In October and November 2010, LG Display filed a motion for a new trial and to amend certain findings on the AU Optronics patents and LG Display’s patents, respectively. In September 2011, LG Display and AU Optronics filed a stipulation for dismissal of the case and amicably settled all claims and counterclaims as between the parties. The stay of the Chi Mei Optoelectronics case was lifted on January 31, 2012, and the parties filed a joint status report with the court on March 23, 2012. A trial date has been set for November 5, 2012. 18 Table of Contents In February 2007, Anvik Corporation filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against LG Display and LG Display America, along with other TFT-LCD manufacturing companies, for alleged patent infringement in connection with the use of photo-masking equipment manufactured by Nikon Corporation. The court granted Nikon Corporation’s motion for summary judgment of invalidity of the patents-in-suit and entered a judgment in favor of Nikon Corporation, LG Display and LG Display America and the other TFT-LCD manufacturing companies, dismissing the case on April 5, 2012. On April 6, 2012, Anvik Corporation appealed the court’s decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On February 7, 2012, the United States International Trade Commission, or USITC, granted a motion by Industrial Technology Research Institute, or ITRI, to add LG Display and LG Display America as additional respondents in a Section 337 investigation pending before the USITC. ITRI is seeking an exclusion order prohibiting the importation of televisions and monitors incorporating LG Display’s products into the United States for alleged patent infringement. We rely on technology provided by third parties and our business will suffer if we are unable to renew our licensing arrangements with them. From time to time, we have obtained licenses for patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to process and device technologies used in the production of our display panels. We have entered into key licensing arrangements with third parties, for which we have made, and continue to make, periodic license fee payments. In addition, we also have cross-license agreements with certain other third parties. These agreements terminate upon the expiration of the respective terms of the patents. If we are unable to renew our technology licensing arrangements on acceptable terms, we may lose the legal protection to use certain of the processes we employ to manufacture our products and be prohibited from using those processes, which may prevent us from manufacturing and selling certain of our products, including our key products. In addition, we could be at a disadvantage if our competitors obtain licenses for protected technologies on more favorable terms than we do. In the future, we may also need to obtain additional patent licenses for new or existing technologies. We cannot provide assurance that these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms or at all, and if not, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We rely upon trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary know-how to maintain our competitive position in the display panel industry and any loss of our rights to, or unauthorized disclosure of, our trade secrets or other unpatented proprietary know-how could negatively affect our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and information, as well as continuing technological innovation in our business. The information we rely upon includes price forecasts, core technology and key customer information. We enter into confidentiality agreements with each of our employees and consultants upon the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship. These agreements generally provide that all inventions, ideas, discoveries, improvements and copyrightable material made or conceived by the individual arising out of the employment or consulting relationship and all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the term of the relationship is our exclusive property. We cannot provide assurance that these types of agreements will be fully enforceable, or that they will not be breached. We also cannot be certain that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. The disclosure of our trade secrets or other know-how as a result of such a breach could adversely affect our business. Also, our competitors may come to know about or determine our trade secrets and other proprietary information through a variety of methods. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of our confidentiality agreements, and there can be no assurance that any such disputes would be resolved in our favor. Further, others may acquire or independently develop similar technology, or if patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain information pertinent to such research as proprietary technology or trade secrets and that could have an adverse effect on our competitive position within the display panel industry. We rely on key researchers and engineers, senior management and production facility operators, and the loss of the services of any such personnel or the inability to attract and retain them may negatively affect our business. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our research and development and engineering personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified researchers and engineers, especially during periods of rapid growth. In particular, our focus on leading the market in introducing new products and advanced manufacturing processes has meant that we must aggressively recruit research and development personnel and engineers with expertise in cutting-edge technologies. 19 Table of Contents We also depend on the services of experienced key senior management, and if we lose their services, it would be difficult to find and integrate replacement personnel in a timely manner, if at all. We also employ highly skilled line operators at our various production facilities. The loss of the services of any of our key research and development and engineering personnel, senior management or skilled operators without adequate replacement, or the inability to attract new qualified personnel, would have a material adverse effect on our operations. The interests of LG Electronics, our largest shareholder, and any directors or officers nominated by it, may differ from or conflict with those of us or our other shareholders. When exercising its rights as our largest shareholder, LG Electronics may take into account not only our interests but also its interests and the interests of its affiliates. The interests of display businesses of LG Electronics may at times conflict with ours since the growth of our business depends, in part, on successful competition with other display technologies. These conflicts may result in alternative display technologies gaining wider market acceptance than TFT-LCDs or a decision by our largest shareholder to sell products using other display technologies. Various other conflicts of interest between LG Electronics and us may arise in the future in a number of areas relating to our business, including potential acquisitions of businesses or properties, incurrence of indebtedness, financial commitments, sales and marketing functions, indemnity arrangements, service arrangements and the exercise by LG Electronics of control over our management and affairs. See “Item 6.A. Directors and Senior Management” for a description of the composition of our current board of directors and senior management. Labor unrest may disrupt our operations. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 75% of our total employees, including those of our subsidiaries, were union members, and production employees accounted for substantially all of these members. We have a collective bargaining arrangement with our labor union, which is negotiated once a year. Any deterioration in our relationship with our employees or labor unrest resulting in a work stoppage or strike may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to strict environmental regulations and we may be subject to fines or restrictions that could cause our operations to be interrupted. Our manufacturing processes generate chemical waste, waste water and other industrial waste at various stages in the manufacturing process, and we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of such chemical by-products and waste substances. We have installed various types of anti-pollution equipment, consistent with industry standards, for the treatment of chemical waste and equipment for the recycling of treated waste water at our various facilities. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview—Environmental Matters” for a description of the anti-pollution equipment that we have installed in our various facilities. However, we cannot provide assurance that environmental claims will not be brought against us or that the local or national governments will not take steps toward adopting more stringent environmental standards. Any failure on our part to comply with any present or future environmental regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us, suspension of production or a cessation of operations. In addition, environmental regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant compliance expenses that may materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to our American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, or our Common Stock Future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market may depress our stock price and make it difficult for you to recover the full value of your investment in our common stock or our ADSs. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of our common stock for sale will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. Our largest shareholder, LG Electronics, currently owns approximately 37.9% of our voting stock. There is no assurance that LG Electronics will not sell all or a part of its ownership interest in us. 20 Table of Contents Any future sales by LG Electronics or any future issuance by us of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that any of these events may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease or to be lower than it might be in the absence of these events or perceptions. Our public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by the laws governing Korean corporations. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders and members of our board of directors under Korean law may be different from those that apply to shareholders and directors of a U.S. corporation. For example, minority shareholder rights afforded under Korean law often require the minority shareholder to meet minimum shareholding requirements in order to exercise certain rights. In the case of public companies, a shareholder must own, individually or collectively with other shareholders, at least 0.01% of our common stock for at least six consecutive months in order to file a derivative suit on our behalf. While the facts and circumstances of each case will differ, the duty of care required of a director under Korean law may not be the same as the fiduciary duty of a director of a U.S. corporation. Holders of our common stock or our ADSs may have more difficulty protecting their interests against actions of our management, members of our board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. You may be limited in your ability to deposit or withdraw the common stock underlying the ADSs, which may adversely affect the value of your investment. Under the terms of our deposit agreement, holders of common stock may deposit such common stock with the depositary’s custodian in Korea and obtain ADSs, and holders of ADSs may surrender ADSs to the depositary and receive common stock. However, to the extent that a deposit of common stock exceeds the difference between: • the aggregate number of shares of common stock we have consented to allow to be deposited for the issuance of ADSs (including deposits in connection with offerings of ADSs and stock dividends or other distributions relating to ADSs); and • the number of shares of common stock on deposit with the custodian for the benefit of the depositary at the time of such proposed deposit, such common stock will not be accepted for deposit unless (1) our consent, subject to governmental authorization, with respect to such deposit has been obtained or (2) such consent is no longer required under Korean laws and regulations. Under the terms of the deposit agreement, no consent is required if the shares of common stock are obtained through a dividend, free distribution, rights offering or reclassification of such stock. The current limit on the number of shares that may be deposited into our ADR facility is 68,095,700 as of April 27, 2012. The number of shares issued or sold in any subsequent offering by us or our major shareholders, subject to government authorization, raises the limit on the number of shares that may be deposited into the ADR facility, except to the extent such deposit is prohibited by applicable laws or violates our articles of incorporation, or we determine with the ADR depositary to limit the number of shares of common stock so offered that would be eligible for deposit under the deposit agreement in order to maintain liquidity for the shares in Korea as may be requested by the relevant Korean authorities. We might not consent to the deposit of any additional shares of common stock. As a result, if a holder surrenders ADSs and withdraws common stock, it may not be able to deposit the common stock again to obtain ADSs. Holders of ADSs will not have preemptive rights in some circumstances. The Korean Commercial Code of 1962, as amended, and our articles of incorporation require us, with some exceptions, to offer shareholders the right to subscribe for new shares of our common stock in proportion to their existing shareholding ratio whenever new shares are issued, except under certain circumstances as provided in our articles of incorporation. Accordingly, if we issue new shares to non-shareholders based on such exception, a holder of our ADSs may experience dilution in its holdings. Furthermore, if we offer any right to subscribe for additional shares of our common stock or any rights of any other nature to existing shareholders subject to their preemptive rights, the depositary, after consultation with us, may make the rights available to holders of our ADSs or use reasonable efforts to dispose of the rights on behalf of such holders and make the net proceeds available to such holders. The depositary, however, is not required to make available to holders any rights to purchase any additional shares of our common stock unless it deems that doing so is lawful and feasible and; 21 Table of Contents • a registration statement filed by us under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is in effect with respect to those shares; or • the offering and sale of those shares is exempt from or is not subject to the registration requirements of the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file any registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, a holder of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in its holdings. If a registration statement is required for a holder of our ADSs to exercise preemptive rights but is not filed by us or is not declared effective, the holder will not be able to exercise its preemptive rights for additional ADSs and it will suffer dilution of its equity interest in us. If the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or feasible, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case the holder will receive no value for these rights. Holders of ADSs will not be able to exercise dissent and appraisal rights unless they have withdrawn the underlying shares of our common stock and become our direct shareholders. In some limited circumstances, including the transfer of the whole or any significant part of our business and our merger or consolidation with another company, dissenting shareholders have the right to require us to purchase their shares under Korean law. However, a holder of our ADSs will not be able to exercise such dissent and appraisal rights if the depositary refuses to do so on their behalf. Our deposit agreement does not require the depositary to take any action in respect of exercising dissent and appraisal rights. In such a situation, holders of our ADSs must initiate the withdrawal of the underlying common stock from the ADS facility (and incur charges relating to that withdrawal) by the day immediately following the date of public disclosure of our board of directors’ resolution of a merger or other events triggering appraisal rights and become our direct shareholder prior to the record date of the shareholders’ meeting at which the relevant transaction is to be approved, in order to exercise dissent and appraisal rights. Dividend payments and the amount you may realize upon a sale of our common stock or ADSs that you hold will be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Korean Won. Cash dividends, if any, in respect of the shares represented by our ADSs will be paid to the depositary in Korean Won and then converted by the depositary into U.S. dollars, subject to certain conditions. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Korean Won and the U.S. dollar will affect, among other things, the amounts a holder will receive from the depositary in respect of dividends, the U.S. dollar value of the proceeds that a holder would receive upon sale in Korea of the shares of our common stock obtained upon surrender of ADSs and the secondary market price of ADSs. Such fluctuations will also affect the U.S. dollar value of dividends and sales proceeds received by holders of our common stock. Risks Relating to Korea If economic conditions in Korea deteriorate, our current business and future growth could be materially and adversely affected. In recent years, adverse conditions and volatility in the worldwide financial markets, fluctuations in oil and commodity prices and the general weakness of the U.S. and global economy have contributed to the uncertainty of global economic prospects in general and have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the Korean economy. From the second half of 2008 to the first half of 2010, the value of the Won relative to major foreign currencies in general and the U.S. dollar in particular fluctuated widely. While such fluctuations generally stabilized in the second half of 2010 and into 2011, there has been increased volatility in the value of the Won in recent months reflecting the general volatility in the global financial markets. There is no guarantee that such levels of currency fluctuation will not occur again in the future. See “Item 3A. Selected Financial Data—Exchange Rates.” A depreciation of the Won increases the cost of imported goods and services and the Won revenue needed by Korean companies to service foreign currency denominated debt. An appreciation of the Won, on the other hand, causes export products of Korean companies to be less competitive by raising their prices in terms of the relevant foreign currency and reduces the Won value of such export sales. Furthermore, as a result of adverse global and Korean economic conditions, there has been an overall decline and continuing volatility in the stock prices of Korean companies. The Korea Composite Stock Price Index (known as the “KOSPI”) declined from 1,897.1 on December 31, 2007 to 938.8 on October 24, 2008. While the KOSPI has recovered to a significant extent since 2008, there has been increased volatility and substantial declines in the KOSPI in recent months, particularly following the downgrading by Standard & Poor’s Rating Services of the long-term sovereign credit rating of the United States to “AA+” from “AAA” in August 2011 and in light of the financial difficulties affecting many other governments worldwide, in particular Greece, Portugal, Spain, Italy and other countries in Europe. There is no guarantee that the stock prices of Korean companies will not decline again in the future. On April 27, 2012, the KOSPI closed at 1,975.35. Future declines in the KOSPI and large amounts of sales of Korean securities by foreign investors and subsequent repatriation of the proceeds of such sales may continue to adversely affect the value of the Won, the foreign currency reserves held by financial institutions in Korea, and the ability of Korean companies to raise capital. Any future deterioration of the Korean or global economy could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Developments that could have an adverse impact on Korea’s economy in the future include: • difficulties in the housing and financial sectors in the United States and elsewhere and increased sovereign default risks in selected countries and the resulting adverse effects on the global financial markets; • adverse changes or volatility in foreign currency reserve levels, commodity prices (including oil prices), exchange rates (including fluctuation of the U.S. dollar or Japanese Yen exchange rates or revaluation of the Chinese Renminbi), interest rates, inflation rates or stock markets; • continuing adverse conditions in the economies of countries that are important export markets for Korea, such as the United States, Japan and China, or in emerging market economies in Asia or elsewhere; • substantial decreases in the market prices of Korean real estate; • increasing delinquencies and credit defaults by consumer and small- and medium-sized enterprise borrowers; • declines in consumer confidence and a slowdown in consumer spending; • the continued emergence of the Chinese economy, to the extent its benefits (such as increased exports to China) are outweighed by its costs (such as competition in export markets or for foreign investment and the relocation of the manufacturing base from Korea to China); • social and labor unrest; • a decrease in tax revenues and a substantial increase in the Korean government’s expenditures for fiscal stimulus measures, unemployment compensation and other economic and social programs that, together, would lead to an increased Korean government budget deficit; • financial problems or lack of progress in the restructuring of large troubled companies, their suppliers or the financial sector; • loss of investor confidence arising from corporate accounting irregularities or corporate governance issues at certain Korean companies; • the economic impact of the free trade agreements with the United States and the European Union and any pending or future free trade agreements; • geo-political uncertainty and risk of further attacks by terrorist groups around the world; • the occurrence of severe health epidemics in Korea or other parts of the world; • deterioration in economic or diplomatic relations between Korea and its trading partners or allies, including deterioration resulting from trade disputes or disagreements in foreign policy; • political uncertainty or increasing strife among or within political parties in Korea; • the occurrence of severe earthquakes, tsunamis or other natural disasters in Korea or other parts of the world, particularly in trading partners (such as the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, which also resulted in the release of radioactive materials from a nuclear plant that had been damaged by the earthquake); • hostilities or political or social tensions involving oil producing countries in the Middle East or North Africa and any material disruption in the supply of oil or increase in the price of oil; and • an increase in the level of tensions or an outbreak of hostilities between North Korea and Korea or the United States. 23 Table of Contents Escalations in tensions with North Korea could have an adverse effect on us and the market value of our common stock. Relations between Korea and North Korea have been tense throughout Korea’s modern history. The level of tension between the two Koreas has fluctuated and may increase abruptly as a result of current and future events. In particular, since the death of the North Korean ruler, Kim Jong-il, in December 2011, there has been increased uncertainty with respect to the future of North Korea’s political leadership and concern regarding its implications for political and economic stability in the region. Although before his death, Kim Jong-il designated his third son, Kim Jong-eun, as his successor and also named him as the vice chairman of the Central Military Commission and a general of the North Korean army, the eventual outcome of such leadership transition remains uncertain. Furthermore, as only limited information is available outside of North Korea about Kim Jong-eun, who is reported to be in his late twenties, and it is unclear which individuals or factions, if any, will share political power with Kim Jong-eun or assume the leadership if the transition is not successful, there is significant uncertainty regarding the policies, actions and initiatives that North Korea might pursue in the future. In addition, in recent years, there have been heightened security concerns stemming from North Korea’s nuclear weapons and long-range missile programs and increased uncertainty regarding North Korea’s actions and possible responses from the international community. In January 2003, North Korea renounced its obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Since the renouncement, Korea, the United States, North Korea, China, Japan and Russia have held numerous rounds of six party multi-lateral talks in an effort to resolve issues relating to North Korea’s nuclear weapons program. North Korea announced in October 2006 that it had successfully conducted a nuclear test, which increased tensions in the region and elicited strong objections worldwide. In May 2009, North Korea announced that it had successfully conducted a second nuclear test and test-fired three short-range surface-to-air missiles. In response, the United Nations Security Council unanimously passed a resolution in June 2009 that condemned North Korea for the nuclear test and decided to expand and tighten sanctions against North Korea. In March 2010, a Korean warship was destroyed by an underwater explosion, killing many of the crewmen on board. The Korean government formally accused North Korea of causing the sinking, while North Korea has denied responsibility for the sinking and has threatened retaliation for any attempt to punish it for the act. In November 2010, North Korean forces reportedly fired more than one hundred artillery shells targeting Yeonpyeong Island located near the Northern Limit Line, which acts as the de facto maritime boundary between Korea and North Korea on the west coast of the Korean peninsula, killing two Korean soldiers and two civilians as well as causing substantial property damage. Korea responded by firing approximately 80 artillery shells and putting the military on its highest alert level. The Korean government condemned North Korea for the act and vowed stern retaliation should there be further provocation. In February 2012, North Korea agreed with the United States to suspend its uranium enrichment activities, place a moratorium on nuclear and long-range missile tests and allow United Nations’ International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors to monitor activities at its main nuclear complex in exchange for food aid. However, in April 2012, North Korea failed in its attempt to launch a satellite using a long-range rocket, despite concerns in the international community that such a launch would be in violation of the recent agreement with the United States as well as United Nations Security Council resolutions that prohibit North Korea from conducting launches that use ballistic missile technology. North Korea’s economy also faces severe challenges. For example, in November 2009, the North Korean government redenominated its currency at a ratio of 100 to 1 as part of a currency reform undertaken in an attempt to control inflation and reduce income gaps. In tandem with the currency redenomination, the North Korean government banned the use or possession of foreign currency by its residents and closed down privately run markets, which led to severe inflation and food shortages. Such developments may further aggravate social and political tensions within North Korea. Reunification of Korea and North Korea could occur in the future. Reunification may entail a significant economic commitment by Korea. In a national address in August 2010, Korean President Lee Myung Bak suggested the possible adoption of a reunification tax in order to prepare for the long-term economic burden associated with reunification. Such discussions on reunification are very preliminary, and it has not been decided whether or when such tax would be implemented. If a reunification tax is implemented, it may lead to a decrease in domestic consumption, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on the Korean economy. In addition, there can be no assurance that the level of tension on the Korean peninsula will not escalate in the future. Any further increase in tension, which may occur, for example, if North Korea experiences a leadership crisis, high-level contacts between Korea and North Korea break down or military hostilities occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market value of our common stock. If the Korean government deems that emergency circumstances are likely to occur, it may restrict holders of our ADSs and the depositary from converting and remitting dividends and other amounts in U.S. dollars. Under the Korean Foreign Exchange Transaction Law, if the Korean government deems that certain emergency circumstances, including sudden fluctuations in interest rates or exchange rates, extreme difficulty in stabilizing the balance of payments or substantial disturbance in the Korean financial and capital markets, are likely to occur, it may impose any necessary restrictions as requiring Korean or foreign investors to obtain prior approval from the Minister of Strategy and Finance for the acquisition of Korean securities or the repatriation of interest, dividends or sales proceeds arising from disposition of such securities or other transactions involving foreign exchange. See “Item 10.D. Exchange Controls.” 24 Table of Contents 