Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. Risks Relating to Our Industry Our industry continues to experience steady declines in the average selling prices of display panels irrespective of cyclical fluctuations in the industry, and our margins would be adversely impacted if prices decrease faster than we are able to reduce our costs. The average selling prices of display panels have declined in general and are expected to continually decline with time irrespective of industry-wide cyclical fluctuations as a result of, among other factors, technological advancements and cost reductions. Although we may be able to take advantage of the higher selling prices typically associated with new products and technologies when they are first introduced in the market, such prices decline over time, and in certain cases, very rapidly, as a result of market competition or otherwise. If we are unable to effectively anticipate and counter the price erosion that accompanies our products, or if the average selling prices of our display panels decrease faster than the speed at which we are able to reduce our manufacturing costs, our gross margins would decrease and our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive environment and we may not be able to sustain our current market position. The TFT-LCD industry is highly competitive. We have experienced pressure on the prices and margins of our major products due largely to additional industry capacity from panel makers in Korea, Taiwan, China and Japan. Our main competitors in the industry include Samsung Electronics, Infovision, BOE-Hydis, AU Optronics, Chi Mei Optoelectronics, Chunghwa Picture Tubes, HannStar, Innolux, SVA-NEC, BOE-OT, Sharp, Hitachi, TMDisplay, Mitsubishi, Sony and IPS-Alpha. Some of our competitors may currently, or at some point in the future, have greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, research and development or technological resources than we do. In addition, our competitors may be able to manufacture panels on a larger scale or with greater cost efficiencies than we do and we anticipate increases in production capacity in the near future by other TFT-LCD manufacturers. Any price erosion resulting from strong global competition or additional industry capacity may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We and our competitors each seek to establish our own products as the industry standards. For example, in the growing large-sized television panel market, we currently manufacture 32-inch, 37-inch, 42-inch, 47-inch, 52-inch and 55-inch television panels. Other TFT-LCD manufacturers produce competitive large-sized television panels in slightly different dimensions. If our competitors’ panels become the standard market size, we may lose market share, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to compete successfully also depends on factors both within and outside our control, including product pricing, performance and reliability, successful and timely investment and product development, success or failure of our end-brand customers in marketing their brands and products, component and raw material supply costs, and general economic and industry conditions. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors on these fronts and, as a result, we may be unable to sustain our current market position. 7 Our industry is subject to cyclical fluctuations, including recurring periods of capacity increases, that may adversely affect our operating results. TFT-LCD manufacturers are vulnerable to cyclical market conditions. Intense competition and demand growth expectations may result in panel manufacturers investing in manufacturing capacity on similar schedules, resulting in a surge in capacity when production is ramped up at new fabrication facilities. During such surges in capacity growth, our customers can exert and have exerted strong downward pricing pressure, resulting in sharp declines in average selling prices and significant fluctuations in our gross margins. Conversely, demand surges and fluctuations in the supply chain can lead to price increases. For example, the overall average selling price of our display panels (including small panel applications) per panel, which is derived by dividing total sales revenues by total number of panels sold, decreased by 15.7% from (Won)101,958 per panel in 2005 to (Won)85,966 in 2006 and further decreased by 20.0% to (Won)68,739 in 2007. The overall average selling price of our display panels (including small panel applications) per square meter of net display area, which is derived by dividing total sales revenues by total square meters of net display area shipped, decreased by 25.8% from US$2,097 per square meter of net display area in 2005 to US$1,555 in 2006 and further decreased by 14.9% to US$1,323 in 2007. Our gross margins have also fluctuated from period to period, from 10.0% in 2005 to (2.7)% in 2006 to 15.9% in 2007. Principal factors affecting our gross margins include declines in the average selling prices of our display panels, as well as our ability to maintain or increase unit sales volume and market share, minimize the impact of fluctuations in prices and foreign exchange rates and the supply and demand for principal components and raw materials, reduce unit manufacturing costs and introduce new products with higher margins in a timely manner. We anticipate continued capacity expansion in the TFT-LCD industry due to scheduled ramp-up of new fabrication facilities, and any large increases in capacity that this may create could further drive down the average selling prices of our panels, which would affect our gross margins. Any decline in prices may be further compounded by a seasonal weakening in demand growth for personal computer products, consumer electronics products and our other application products. We cannot assure you that any future downturns resulting from any large increases in capacity or other factors affecting the industry would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results fluctuate from period to period, so you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons to predict our future performance. The TFT-LCD industry is affected by market conditions that are often outside the control of manufacturers. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to a number of factors, including seasonal variations in consumer demand, capacity ramp-up by competitors, industry-wide technological changes, the loss of a key customer and the postponement, rescheduling or cancellation of large orders by a key customer. As a result of these factors and other risks discussed in this section, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons to predict our future performance. Risks Relating to Our Company Our financial condition may be adversely affected if we cannot introduce new products to adapt to rapidly evolving customer needs on a timely basis. New products are developed in anticipation of future demand. Our success will depend greatly on our ability to respond quickly to emerging customer requirements and to develop new products in anticipation of future demand. Any delay in our development of commercially successful products with reliable quality and advanced features may adversely affect our business. Success of a new product also depends on other factors such as close cooperation with our customers to gain insights into their product needs and to understand general trends in the market. When developing new products, we often work with equipment suppliers to design equipment that will make our production processes for such 8 new products more efficient. If we are unable to work together with our customers and equipment suppliers, or to sufficiently understand their respective needs and capabilities, we may not be able to introduce new products in a timely manner, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial situation. We plan to continue to expand our operations to meet the growing demand for new applications in consumer electronics and other markets. Because these products, such as televisions and mobile phones, are expected to be marketed to a diverse group of end users with different specifications, functions and prices, we have developed different sales and marketing strategies to promote our panels for these products. We cannot provide assurance that our expansion strategy for these panels will be successful. Problems with product quality, including defects, in our TFT-LCD panels could result in a decrease in customers and sales, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. Our products are manufactured using advanced and often new technology and must meet stringent quality requirements. Products manufactured using advanced and new technology such as ours may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced. For example, our TFT-LCD panels may contain defects that are not detected until after they are shipped or installed because we cannot test for all possible scenarios. Such defects could cause us to incur significant re-designing costs, divert the attention of our technology personnel from product development efforts and significantly affect our customer relations and business reputation. In addition, future product failures could cause us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products. If we deliver TFT-LCD panels with errors or defects, or if there is a perception that our TFT-LCD panels contain errors or defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed. Widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. We sell our products to a select group of key customers, including our two major shareholders, who may no longer rely on us as a strategic supplier of TFT-LCD products, and any significant decrease in their order levels will negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our sales is attributable to a limited group of end-brand customers and their designated system integrators. Sales attributed to our end-brand customers are for their end-brand products and do not include sales to these customers for their system integration activities for other end-brand products, if any. Our top ten end-brand customers, including our two major shareholders, together accounted for 73.0% of our sales in 2005, 71.3% in 2006 and 73.7% in 2007. Our top three end-brand customers together accounted for 40.1% of our sales in 2005, 42.0% in 2006 and 41.8% in 2007. In 2007, two end-brand customers, LG Electronics (excluding its purchases made as a system integrator) and Philips Electronics, each contributed to 10% or more of our sales. We benefit from the strong collaborative relationships we maintain with our end-brand customers by participating in the development of their products and gaining insights about levels of future demand for our products and other industry trends. Customers look to us for a dependable supply of quality products, even during downturns in the industry, and we benefit from the brand recognition of our customers’ end products. The loss of these end-brand customers, as a result of customers entering into strategic supplier arrangements with our competitors or otherwise, would thus result not only in reduced sales, but also in the loss of these benefits. We cannot provide assurance that these customers, including our two major shareholders, will continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods, or at all. 9 Any material deterioration in the financial condition of our key end-brand customers, their system integrators or our affiliated trading company will have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our top ten end-brand customers accounted for 73.0% of our sales in 2005, 71.3% in 2006 and 73.7% in 2007, on an aggregate basis. Although we negotiate directly with our end-brand customers concerning the price and quantity of the sales, we typically invoice their designated system integrators. In addition, a portion of our sales to end-brand customers and their system integrators located in certain regions are sold through our affiliated trading company, LG International Corp. and its subsidiaries. As a result of our significant dependence on a concentrated group of end-brand customers and their designated system integrators, as well as the sales we make to our affiliated trading company and its subsidiaries, we are exposed to credit risks associated with these entities. Changes at our end-brand customers could cause sales of our products to decline. Mergers, acquisitions, divestments or consolidations involving our end-brand customers can present risks to our business, as management at the new entity may change the way they do business, including their transactions with us, or may decide not to use us as one of their suppliers of TFT-LCD products. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that a combined entity resulting from a merger, acquisition or consolidation will continue to purchase TFT-LCD panels from us at the same level as each entity purchased in the aggregate when they were separate companies or that a divested company will purchase panels from us at all. Our results of operations depend on our ability to keep pace with changes in technology. Advances in technology typically lead to rapid declines in sales volumes for products made with older technologies and may lead to these products becoming less competitive in the marketplace, or even obsolete. As a result, we will likely be required to make significant expenditures to develop or acquire new process and product technologies. Also, our ability to manufacture our products by utilizing advanced process technologies to increase production yields at low production cost will be critical to our sustained competitiveness. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to successfully develop new products through our research and development efforts or through obtaining technology licenses, or that we will keep pace with technological changes in the marketplace. Our revenues depend on continuing demand for televisions, notebook computers, desktop monitors and other application products with TFT-LCD panels. Our sales may not grow at the rate we expect if consumers do not purchase these products. Currently, our total sales are derived principally from customers using our products in televisions, notebook computers, desktop monitors and other application products with display devices. In particular, a substantial percentage of our sales is increasingly derived from end-brand customers, or their designated system integrators, who use our panels in their televisions, which accounted for 27.8%, 46.5% and 47.7% of our total sales revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. A substantial portion of our sales is also derived from end-brand customers, or their designated system integrators, who use our TFT-LCD panels in their desktop monitors, which accounted for 47.0%, 27.4% and 25.8% of our total sales revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively, and those who use our panels in their notebook computers, which accounted for 21.0%, 20.4% and 21.5% of our total sales revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. We will continue to be dependent on the growth in the television industry as well as the personal computer industry for a substantial portion of our sales, and any downturn in the television and personal computer industry would result in reduced demand for our products, reduced revenues, lower average selling prices and/or reduced margins. In addition, we anticipate that there will be increasing migration from conventional cathode ray tube, or CRT, televisions to TFT-LCD televisions. We have installed, and we expect to continue to install, capacity in anticipation of increased television demand generated by this trend. However, we may be unable to successfully execute our strategy or sustain our growth and profitability if this migration to TFT-LCD televisions does not 10 take place as we anticipated. Moreover, we can offer no assurance that threats from competing technologies will not significantly affect and alter our strategy for and competitive position in the television market. If our current strategy to address the expected growth in the television market, in part by increasing our production capacity, fails, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. The introduction of alternative display panel technologies, including those currently under development by our competitors and us, may erode future sales of TFT-LCD panels, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. New display technologies being developed by other panel makers, such as organic light emitting diode, or OLED, and flexible display, which are technologies that we are also developing, may gain wider market acceptance than TFT-LCD technology for use in certain products, such as mobile phones, electronic paper and wall displays. In addition, alternative display technologies, such as plasma display panel, or PDP, may gain wider market acceptance than TFT-LCD technology for use in certain products, such as in televisions, which generally command higher prices due to their larger panel sizes. If consumers do not purchase products utilizing TFT-LCD panels as we expect, or if TFT-LCD technology itself is rendered obsolete, this would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations to the extent we cannot offset such loss in demand for TFT-LCD products by selling products using other display technologies. We will have significant capital requirements in connection with our business strategy and if capital resources are not available we may not be able to implement our strategy and future plans. In connection with our strategy to expand the diversity and capacity of our TFT-LCD production, we estimate that we will incur significant expenditures for the expansion of existing production lines, construction of new facilities and strategic investments, such as the development of our Paju Display Cluster. In Paju, we built our seventh fabrication facility, or P7, in 2005 and commenced mass production at P7 in January 2006. P7 reached an initial design capacity of 90,000 input sheets of glass substrate per month in April 2007 and an expanded average capacity of 136,000 input sheets of glass substrate per month during the fourth quarter of 2007. The total cost of the construction and build-out of P7 was approximately (Won)5.0 trillion. Our total capital expenditure for 2007 on a delivery basis, or capital expenditures accounted for at the time of delivery of property, plant and equipment, was approximately (Won)1.0 trillion (US$1.1 billion), of which approximately (Won)0.2 trillion was attributable to capital expenditure for P7. In addition, we built a new module production plant in Wroclaw, Poland, which commenced mass production in March 2007 and reached an initial production capacity of 3 million modules per year in July 2007. In December 2007, we also commenced mass production at a new module production plant in Guangzhou, China, our second such module production site in China. We are currently constructing our eighth fabrication facility, or P8, in our Paju Display Cluster. We expect our capital expenditures for construction of P8 on a delivery basis to be approximately (Won)2.0 trillion in 2008. Such amount is subject to periodic assessment, and we cannot provide any assurance that such amount may not change materially after assessment. We estimate our total capital expenditures on a delivery basis to be approximately (Won)3.0 trillion and our cash outflows for capital expenditures to be approximately (Won)2.5 trillion in 2008. We estimate our capital expenditure for research on, and development of production lines for, OLED, on a delivery basis to be approximately (Won)11.1 billion in 2008. These capital expenditures will be made well in advance of any additional sales that will be generated from these expenditures. However, in the event of adverse market conditions, or if our actual expenditures far exceed our planned expenditures, our external financing activities combined with our internal sources of liquidity may not be sufficient to effect our current and future operational plans, and we may decide not to expand the capacity of certain of our facilities or to continue construction of P8. Our ability to obtain additional financing will depend upon several factors outside of our control, including general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other considerations. 11 The failure to obtain sufficient financing on commercially reasonable terms to complete our expansion plans could delay or derail our ability to pursue our business strategy, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our manufacturing processes are complex and periodic improvements to increase efficiency can expose us to potential disruptions in operations. The manufacturing process for TFT-LCD products is highly complex, requiring sophisticated and costly equipment that is periodically modified and updated to improve manufacturing yields and product performance, and reduce unit manufacturing costs. These updates expose us to the risk that from time to time production difficulties will arise that could cause delivery delays, reduced output or both. We cannot provide assurance that we will not experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable output, product delivery delays or both as a result of, among other factors, construction delays, difficulties in upgrading or modifying existing production lines or ramping up new plants, difficulties in changing manufacturing line technologies or delays in equipment deliveries, any of which could constrain our capacity and adversely affect our results of operations. We may be unable to successfully execute our expansion strategy or manage and sustain our growth on a timely basis, if at all, and, as a result, our business may be harmed. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, rapid growth in the scope and complexity of our operations. For example, we expanded our capacity by commencing mass production at our third fabrication facility, P3, in July 2000, our fourth fabrication facility, P4, in March 2002, our fifth fabrication facility, P5, in May 2003, our sixth fabrication facility, P6, in August 2004 and at our seventh fabrication facility, P7, in January 2006. We also commenced production at our new module assembly facility in Nanjing, China, in May 2003, at our new module production plant in Wroclaw, Poland, in March 2007 and at our new module production plant in Guangzhou, China, in December 2007. In addition, we are currently constructing our eighth fabrication facility, or P8, in our Paju Display Cluster. See “—We will have significant capital requirements in connection with our business strategy and if capital resources are not available we may not be able to implement our strategy and future plans” above. This sustained growth may strain our managerial, financial, manufacturing and other resources. We may experience manufacturing difficulties in starting new production lines, upgrading existing facilities or ramping up new plants, including P8, as a result of cost overruns, construction delays or shortages of, or quality problems with, materials, labor or equipment, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues. In addition, failure to keep up with our competitors in future investments in next generation fabrication facilities or in the manufacturing capacity of existing facilities would impair our ability to effectively compete within the TFT-LCD industry. Failure to obtain intended economic benefits from expansion projects could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under Korean law, the construction of factories exceeding a certain size is prohibited in designated areas around Seoul, such as Paju. Prior to October 10, 2007, we were able to construct the facilities in our Paju complex pursuant to an exemption available to companies whose “foreign equity interest” equals or exceeds 30%. Foreign equity interest includes any equity invested by a foreigner pursuant to the Foreign Investment Promotion Act, and Philips Electronics’ equity interest in us, before it began reducing its equity ownership interest in us on October 10, 2007, qualified for this purpose. On October 10, 2007, Philips Electronics sold 46.4 million shares of our common stock to financial institutions and reduced its ownership interest in us from 32.9% as of December 31, 2006 to 19.9% as of December 31, 2007. On March 12, 2008, Philips Electronics sold 24.0 million shares of our common stock to institutional investors and further reduced its ownership interest in us to 13.2%. Following such reduction in Philips Electronics’ equity interest in us, it is no longer possible to determine whether the aggregate equity interest held by Philips Electronics or other qualifying foreign investors equals or exceeds 30%. Our current permit to construct the facilities at our Paju complex extends to the land on which we are currently constructing P8 and further allows us to make certain additional expansions. However, 12 although the risk of such happening is remote, under Korean law, the City of Paju may review our permit and prohibit us from constructing additional facilities, including P8, at our Paju complex upon confirmation that the aggregate equity held by qualifying foreign investors has fallen below 30%. Moreover, unless the relevant requirements for the exemption are relaxed, we are no longer able to rely on this exemption with regard to any future production lines not covered by our current permit. If we cannot maintain high capacity utilization rates, our profitability will be adversely affected. The production of TFT-LCD panels entails high fixed costs resulting from considerable expenditures for the construction of complex fabrication and assembly facilities and the purchase of costly equipment. We aim to maintain high capacity utilization rates so that we can allocate these fixed costs over a greater number of panels produced and realize higher gross margins. However, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to sustain our capacity utilization rates in the future. We depend on a limited number of third party suppliers for key raw materials, components and manufacturing equipment, and any disruption in their supply will negatively affect our business. Our production operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of quality raw materials and components on a timely basis. As a result, it is important for us to control our component and raw material costs and reduce the effects of fluctuations in price and availability. In general, we source most of our raw materials as well as key components of TFT-LCD products, such as backlight units, glass substrates, driver integrated circuits and polarizers, from two or more suppliers for each key component. We may experience shortages in the supply of these and other components or raw materials as a result of, among other things, anticipated capacity expansion in the TFT-LCD industry. Our results of operations would be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain adequate supplies of high-quality raw materials or components in a timely manner or make alternative arrangements for such supplies, or if there were significant increases in the costs of raw materials or components that we could not pass on to our customers. In addition, we have purchased, and expect to purchase, a substantial portion of our equipment from a limited number of qualified foreign and local suppliers. From time to time, increased demand for new equipment may cause lead times to extend beyond those normally required by the equipment vendors. The unavailability of equipment, delays in the delivery of equipment, or the delivery of equipment that does not meet our specifications, could delay implementation of our expansion plans and impair our ability to meet customer orders. This could result in a loss of revenues and cause financial stress on our operations. Purchase orders from our customers, which are placed generally one month in advance of delivery, vary in volume from period to period, and we operate with a modest inventory, which may make it difficult for us to efficiently allocate capacity on a timely basis in response to changes in demand. Our major customers and their designated system integrators provide us with three- to six-month rolling forecasts of their product requirements. However, firm orders are not placed until one month before delivery when negotiations on purchase prices are also finalized. Firm orders may be less than anticipated based on these three- to six-month forecasts. Due to the cyclicality of the TFT-LCD industry, purchase order levels from our customers have varied from period to period. Although we typically operate with a two- to four-week inventory, it may be difficult for us to adjust production costs or to allocate production capacity in a timely manner to compensate for any such volatility in order volumes. Our inability to respond quickly to changes in overall demand for TFT-LCD products as well as changes in product mix and specifications may result in lost revenues, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We may experience losses on inventories. Frequent new product introductions in the computer and consumer electronics industries can result in a decline in the average selling prices of our TFT-LCD panels and the obsolescence of our existing TFT-LCD 13 panel inventory. This can result in a decrease in the stated value of our TFT-LCD panel inventory, which we value at the lower of cost or market value. We manage our inventory based on our customers’ and our own forecasts. Although adjustments are regularly made based on market conditions, we typically deliver our goods to the customers one month after a firm order has been placed. While we maintain open channels of communication with our major customers to avoid unexpected decreases in firm orders or subsequent changes to placed orders, and try to minimize our inventory levels, such actions by our customers may have an adverse effect on our inventory management. Sanctions against us and other TFT-LCD panel producers for possible anti-competitive activities may have a direct and indirect material impact on our operations. In December 2006, we received notice that we were under investigation by the Korean Fair Trade Commission, the Japanese Fair Trade Commission, the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice, the European Commission and regulatory bodies of other competitive markets with respect to possible anti-competitive activities in the TFT-LCD industry. We are cooperating fully with the investigations, which are ongoing. Subsequent to the commencement of the U.S. Department of Justice investigation, a number of purported class action lawsuits were filed against us and other TFT-LCD panel manufacturers in various federal district courts, alleging violation of U.S. antitrust laws and other related laws. In addition, purported class action lawsuits have been brought against us, and certain of our officers and directors, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in 2007, alleging, among other things, that we and certain of our officers and directors violated the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, in connection with possible anti-competitive activities in the TFT-LCD industry. While we intend to defend these suits vigorously, it is too early in the proceedings to evaluate the probability of a favorable or unfavorable outcome of the actions, or to estimate the potential loss, if any. An adverse final resolution of the U.S. Department of Justice or other regulators’ investigations or the civil claims described above would result in significant financial liability to, and other adverse effects upon, us, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, irrespective of the validity or the successful assertion of the above-referenced claims, we could incur significant costs with respect to defending against or settling such claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition or cash flows. See “Item 8.A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings” for a description of these matters. We need to observe certain financial and other covenants under the terms of our debt instruments, the failure to comply with which would put us in default under those instruments. Certain of our debt instruments contain financial and other covenants with which we are required to comply on an annual and semi-annual basis. The financial covenants include, but are not limited to, maintenance of credit ratings and debt-to-equity ratios. The documentation for such debt also contains negative pledges as well as cross-default and cross-acceleration clauses, which give related creditors the right to accelerate the amounts due under such debt if an event of default or acceleration has occurred with respect to our existing or future indebtedness, or if any material part of our indebtedness or indebtedness of our subsidiaries is capable of being declared payable before the stated maturity date. In addition, such covenants restrict our ability to raise future debt financing. If we breach our financial or other covenants, our financial condition will be adversely affected to the extent we are not able to cure such breaches or repay the relevant debt. 14 Our results of operations are subject to exchange rate fluctuations. There has been considerable volatility in foreign exchange rates in recent years, including rates between the Won and the U.S. dollar. To the extent that we incur costs in one currency and make sales in another, our profit margins may be affected by changes in the exchange rates between the two currencies. Our sales of display panels are denominated mainly in U.S. dollars and Euros, whereas our purchases of raw materials are denominated mainly in U.S. dollars and Japanese Yen. Our expenditures on capital equipment are denominated principally in Korean Won, U.S. dollars, Japanese Yen and Euros. In 2007, 92.9% of our sales were denominated in U.S. dollars and 5.5% in Euros. During the same period, 61.1% of our purchases of raw materials were denominated in U.S. dollars and 36.1% in Japanese Yen. In addition, 52.6%, 13.7%, 11.5% and 11.1% of our equipment purchases and construction costs, which represented almost all of our total capital expenditures in 2007, were denominated in Korean Won, U.S. dollars, Japanese Yen and Euros, respectively. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates, in particular between the U.S. dollar and the Korean Won, affect our gross profits and pre-tax income. In general, an appreciation in the Korean Won against the U.S. dollar has a net negative impact on such results, although it causes a foreign currency translation gain on our foreign currency debt and currency forward contracts. In recent years, the value of the Korean Won has generally appreciated against the value of the U.S. dollar, although the Korean Won has depreciated sharply against the U.S. dollar in recent months. See “Item 3.A. Selected Financial Data–Exchange Rates.” Further appreciation of the Korean Won may materially and adversely affect the results of our operations because, among other things, it reduces the Korean Won value of our export sales or causes our export products to be less competitive by raising our prices in U.S. dollar terms. Although the impact of exchange rate fluctuations has in the past been partially mitigated by the natural offset of our foreign currency receivables with our payables, our foreign-currency debt and our use of foreign exchange forward contracts, under our current operating and capital structure, an appreciation of the Korean Won on balance generally has a negative impact on our results of operations and we cannot provide assurance that such offsets and hedges will reduce the overall impact of any exchange rate fluctuations in the future. We will lose a portion of the income tax exemption currently available to us under the foreign direct investment laws of Korea if Philips Electronics reduces its ownership in us. Philips Electronics’ investment in us upon the formation of the joint venture was characterized as a foreign direct investment under the Foreign Investment Promotion Act of Korea. Accordingly, we are entitled to an exemption from income taxes on income generated from our TFT-LCD business pursuant to the Special Tax Treatment Control Law of Korea in an amount proportional to the percentage of foreign direct equity investment in us for the first seven taxable years following the registration of such investment, which for us was in August 1999, and at one-half of that percentage for the subsequent three taxable years. In 2007, we received a tax benefit of (Won)23.6 billion (US$25.2 million), or 1.5% of income before income taxes, as a result of Philips Electronics’ 30.1% weighted average ownership in us in 2007. In 2008, we will lose 0.1375% of the tax exemption benefit in respect of net income generated from our TFT-LCD business for each 1% reduction in Philips Electronics’ ownership in us, assuming that the income tax rate applicable to us is the same as that in 2007. After 2008, we will no longer be eligible to receive this income tax exemption. Losses of portions of this tax exemption could negatively affect our results of operations. Our business relies on patent rights and our patent rights may be narrowed in scope or found to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable. Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to obtain and enforce our patent rights both in Korea and worldwide. The coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before a patent is issued, either in Korea or abroad. Consequently, we cannot provide assurance that any of our pending or future 15 patent applications will result in the issuance of patents. Patents issued to us may be subjected to further proceedings limiting their scope and may not provide significant proprietary protection or competitive advantage. Our patents also may be challenged, circumvented, invalidated or deemed unenforceable. In addition, because patent applications in certain countries generally are not published until more than 18 months after they are first filed, because we currently monitor patent applications filed only by other parties in Korea, Japan and the United States, and because publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were, or any of our licensors was, the first creator of inventions covered by pending patent applications, that we or any of our licensors will be entitled to any rights in purported inventions claimed in pending or future patent applications, or that we were, or any of our licensors was, the first to file patent applications on such inventions. Furthermore, pending patent applications or patents already issued to us or our licensors may become subject to dispute, and any dispute could be resolved against us. For example, we may become involved in re-examination, reissue or interference proceedings and the result of these proceedings could be the invalidation or substantial narrowing of our patent claims. We also could be subject to court proceedings that could find our patents invalid or unenforceable or could substantially narrow the scope of our patent claims. In addition, depending on the jurisdiction, statutory differences in patentable subject matter may limit the protection we can obtain on some of our inventions. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could impair our competitiveness and harm our business and future prospects. We believe that developing new products and technologies that can be differentiated from those of our competitors is critical to the success of our business. We take active measures to obtain international protection of our intellectual property by obtaining patents and undertaking monitoring activities in our major markets. However, we cannot assure you that the measures we are taking will effectively deter competitors from improper use of our proprietary technologies. Our competitors may misappropriate our intellectual property, disputes as to ownership of intellectual property may arise and our intellectual property may otherwise become known or independently developed by our competitors. On August 29, 2002, we filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Central District of California against Chunghwa Picture Tubes, Tatung Company and Tatung Co. of America, Inc. claiming patent infringement on our United States patents relating to liquid crystal displays and the manufacturing processes for thin film transistors and liquid crystal displays. On November 21, 2006, we were awarded US$53.5 million in damages in a trial by jury. On September 12, 2007, the court granted our request for enhanced damages, interest on damages, and additional damages for continuing infringement and legal fees. On September 17, 2007, the same court granted our request for permanent injunction against Chunghwa Picture Tubes to stop it from selling or importing the infringing products in the United States. On May 27, 2004, we filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Tatung Company and ViewSonic Corp. claiming patent infringement on two of our United States patents relating to rear-mountable liquid crystal display devices. On May 13, 2005, we filed a separate complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Chunghwa Picture Tubes, Tatung Company, Tatung Co. of America and ViewSonic Corp. claiming infringement of our patents relating to the design and manufacture of liquid crystal display modules. On July 27, 2006, we were awarded US$52.4 million in damages in a trial by jury. On January 10, 2005, Chunghwa Picture Tubes filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Central District of California against LG Electronics and us for alleged infringement of one of its U.S. patents relating to flat panel display mounting systems. On March 29, 2007, after the parties stipulated to the dismissal of 16 Chunghwa Picture Tubes’ infringement claim as well as the dismissal of all pending claims and counterclaims against each other, the same court dismissed the case without prejudice. On November 26, 2007, Chunghwa Picture Tubes and we signed a settlement agreement providing for dismissal of all pending claims and counterclaims, and a cross-licensing agreement allowing the companies to share patented technology. As part of the settlement, Chunghwa Picture Tubes agreed to make a settlement payment to us as compensation. On December 1, 2006, we filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Chi Mei Optoelectronics Corp., AU Optronics Corp., Tatung Company, ViewSonic Corp. and others claiming infringement of patents related to liquid crystal displays and the manufacturing processes for TFT-LCDs. We are seeking, among other things, monetary damages for past infringement and an injunction against future infringement. On March 8, 2007, AU Optronics Corp. filed a counter-claim against us in the United States District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin for alleged infringement of patents related to the manufacturing processes for TFT-LCDs but the suit was transferred to the United States District Court for the District of Delaware pursuant to our motion to transfer. On May 4, 2007, Chi Mei Optoelectronics Corp. filed a counter-claim against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, but the suit was transferred to the United States District Court for the District of Delaware on March 31, 2008 pursuant to our motion to transfer. On December 6, 2007, Tatung Company and we signed a settlement agreement providing for dismissal of all pending claims and counterclaims against each other. On January 19, 2008, ViewSonic Corp. and we signed a settlement agreement providing for dismissal of all pending claims and counterclaims against each other. On January 9, 2006, New Medium Technology LLC, AV Technologies LLC, IP Innovation LLC and Technology Licensing Corporation filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against us for alleged patent infringement. In the complaint, IP Innovation LLC and Technology Licensing Corporation sought, among other things, monetary damages for past infringement. On June 28, 2007, we settled with IP Innovation LLC and Technology Licensing Corporation their claims, and the case was dismissed on July 6, 2007. On April 14, 2006, Positive Technologies, Inc. filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against, among others, several of our customers, including BenQ America Corp., Hitachi America Ltd., Panasonic Corp. of North America, Philips Electronics North America Corp. and Toshiba America, Inc., for alleged infringement of two of its patents relating to LCD displays. Positive Technologies, Inc. is seeking, among other things, damages for past infringement. On March 7, 2007, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas granted our motion to intervene in the patent infringement case brought by Positive Technologies, Inc. On February 2, 2007, Anvik Corporation filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against us, along with other TFT-LCD manufacturing companies, for alleged patent infringement in connection with the use of the photo-masking equipments manufactured by Nikon Corporation and the patented methods performed by such system in producing TFT-LCD panels. Anvik is seeking monetary damages for past infringement and an injunction against future infringement. Any failure to protect our intellectual property could impair our competitiveness and harm our business and future prospects. Our rapid introduction of new technologies and products may increase the likelihood that third parties will assert claims that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights. Although we take and will continue to take steps to ensure that our new products do not infringe upon third party rights, the rapid technological changes that characterize our industry require that we quickly implement new processes and components with respect to our products. Often with respect to recently developed processes and components, a degree of uncertainty exists as to who may rightfully claim ownership rights in such processes 17 and components. Uncertainty of this type increases the risk that claims alleging that such components or processes infringe upon third party rights may be brought against us. If our products or manufacturing processes are found to infringe upon third party rights, we may be subject to significant liabilities and be required to change our manufacturing processes or be prohibited from manufacturing certain products, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We may be required to defend against charges of infringement of patent or other proprietary rights of third parties. Although patent and other intellectual property disputes in our industry have often been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, such defense could require us to incur substantial expense and to divert significant resources of our technical and management personnel, and could result in our loss of rights to develop or make certain products or require us to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that the necessary licenses would be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling certain of our products. Any such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversions of our resources, either of which could adversely affect our business. We rely on technology provided by third parties and our business will suffer if we are unable to renew our licensing arrangements with them. From time to time, we have obtained licenses for patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to process and device technologies used in the production of our display panels. We have entered into key licensing arrangements with third parties, for which we have made, and continue to make, periodic license fee payments. In addition, we also have cross-license agreements with certain other third parties. These agreements terminate upon the expiration of the respective terms of the patents. If we are unable to renew our technology licensing arrangements on acceptable terms, we may lose the legal protection to use certain of the processes we employ to manufacture our products and be prohibited from using those processes, which may prevent us from manufacturing and selling certain of our products, including our key products. In addition, we could be at a disadvantage if our competitors obtain licenses for protected technologies on more favorable terms than we do. In the future, we may also need to obtain additional patent licenses for new or existing technologies. We cannot provide assurance that these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms or at all, and if not, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We rely upon trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary know-how to maintain our competitive position in the TFT-LCD industry and any loss of our rights to, or unauthorized disclosure of, our trade secrets or other unpatented proprietary know-how could negatively affect our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and information, as well as continuing technological innovation in our business. The information we rely upon includes price forecasts, core technology and key customer information. We enter into confidentiality agreements with each of our employees and consultants upon the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship. These agreements generally provide that all inventions, ideas, discoveries, improvements and copyrightable material made or conceived by the individual arising out of the employment or consulting relationship and all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the term of the relationship is our exclusive property. We cannot assure the enforceability of these types of agreements, or that they will not be breached. We also cannot be certain that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. The disclosure of our trade secrets or other know-how as a result of such a breach could adversely affect our business. Also, our competitors may come to know about or determine our trade secrets and other proprietary information through a variety of methods. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of our 18 confidentiality agreements, and there can be no assurance that any such disputes would be resolved in our favor. Further, others may acquire or independently develop similar technology, or if patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain information pertinent to such research as proprietary technology or trade secrets and that could have an adverse effect on our competitive position within the TFT-LCD industry. We rely on key researchers and engineers, senior management and production facility operators, and the loss of the services of any such personnel or the inability to attract and retain them may negatively affect our business. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our research and development and engineering personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified researchers and engineers, especially during periods of rapid growth. In particular, our focus on leading the market in introducing new products and advanced manufacturing processes has meant that we must aggressively recruit engineers with expertise in cutting-edge technologies. In addition, as a joint venture between LG Electronics and Philips Electronics, we have in the past relied on our affiliation with LG Electronics and Philips Electronics to recruit and retain important research and development personnel. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to realize these advantages if our affiliation with LG Electronics and Philips Electronics is significantly reduced in the future. On October 10, 2007, Philips Electronics sold 46.4 million shares of our common stock to financial institutions and reduced its ownership interest in us from 32.9% as of December 31, 2006 to 19.9% as of December 31, 2007. On March 12, 2008, Philips Electronics sold 24.0 million shares of our common stock to institutional investors and further reduced its ownership interest in us to 13.2%. Philips Electronics may further reduce its ownership interest in us in the future, which may compromise our ability to take advantage of our affiliation with Philips Electronics. We also depend on the services of experienced key senior management, and if we lose their services, it would be difficult to find and integrate replacement personnel in a timely manner, or at all. We also employ highly skilled line operators at our various production facilities. The loss of the services of any of our key research and development and engineering personnel, senior management or skilled operators without adequate replacement, or the inability to attract new qualified personnel, would have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our two major shareholders, LG Electronics and Philips Electronics, which together currently own approximately 51.1% of our voting stock, have significant influence over corporate decisions. LG Electronics and Philips Electronics together have control of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including electing certain of our directors, amending our articles of incorporation and approving changes of control that may impact you as a minority shareholder. The directors elected by these shareholders are able to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue additional capital stock, implement stock repurchase programs and incur indebtedness. In addition, we engage in a variety of related party transactions with our two major shareholders and their respective affiliates: • Purchases from LG Electronics and its affiliates—purchases, including purchases of materials, supplies and services, from LG Electronics and its affiliates, excluding LG International and its subsidiaries, amounted to 13.7%, 16.5% and 23.6% of our total purchases in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. • Sales to LG Electronics—sales to LG Electronics (including its overseas subsidiaries) on an invoiced basis, which include sales to LG Electronics both as an end-brand customer and a system integrator, amounted to 18.1%, 16.3% and 17.5% of our sales in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. 19 • Sales to Philips Electronics and its affiliates—sales to Philips Electronics and its affiliates on an invoiced basis, which include sales to Philips Electronics both as an end-brand customer and a system integrator, amounted to 13.1%, 12.5% and 11.9% of our sales in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. • Purchases from LG International—purchases, including purchases of materials, supplies and services, from LG International and its subsidiaries amounted to 14.5%, 10.7% and 5.2% of our total purchases in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. • Sales to LG International—sales to LG International and its subsidiaries on an aggregate basis amounted to 7.4%, 9.0% and 8.3% of our sales in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. • Purchases from Philips Electronics—purchases of materials, including backlight units and driver integrated circuits, from Philips Electronics amounted to 0.6%, 0.8% and 0.2% (including purchases from Philips Electronics’ semiconductor division until September 2006, which, as of October 2006, is no longer a division of Philips Electronics) of our total purchases in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Pursuant to our articles of incorporation and the terms of a shareholders’ agreement entered into between LG Electronics and Philips Electronics in July 2004, we currently have a nine-member board of directors which is composed of three non-outside directors selected by LG Electronics, one non-outside director selected by Philips Electronics and five outside directors. In March 2005, we established the Outside Director Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee which will nominate our future outside directors. The right to nominate the four non-outside directors depends on the respective ownership interest in us of each of LG Electronics and Philips Electronics. The two shareholders have also agreed to a co-voting arrangement under which each party is obligated to vote in favor of the non-outside director candidates selected by the other party as well as the outside candidate jointly selected by the two shareholders. On October 10, 2007, Philips Electronics sold 46.4 million shares of our common stock to financial institutions in a capital markets transaction, which represented approximately 13.0% of our issued share capital, and reduced Philips Electronics’ ownership interest in us to 19.9%. On March 12, 2008, Philips Electronics sold 24.0 million shares of our common stock to institutional investors and further reduced its ownership interest in us to 13.2%. Pursuant to the terms of the shareholders’ agreement and the minimum shareholding requirements thereunder, Philips Electronics is thereafter no longer entitled to nominate any non-outside directors, while LG Electronics is entitled to nominate four non-outside directors. In addition, LG Electronics has the right to nominate our representative director and both LG Electronics and Philips Electronics must vote their shares for the removal of the director nominated by Philips Electronics at the next annual general meeting of shareholders. See “Item 6.A. Directors and Senior Management” for a description of the composition of our board and the representative director system under Korean law, and “Item 7.A. Major Shareholders” for a more detailed discussion of the shareholding structure and arrangements between our two major shareholders. Until the next annual general meeting of shareholders, persons with ties to LG Electronics and Philips Electronics may account for as many as four directors on our board and will continue to exert substantial influence over the operation of our business. Following the next annual general meeting of shareholders, persons with ties to LG Electronics may account for as many as four directors on our board. The interests of LG Electronics and Philips Electronics, and the directors and officers nominated by them, may differ from or conflict with those of us or our other shareholders. When exercising their rights as our shareholders, either alone or in concert, LG Electronics and Philips Electronics may take into account not only our interests but also their interests and the interests of their affiliates. The interests of display businesses of LG Electronics and Philips Electronics may at times conflict with ours since the growth of our business depends, in part, on successful competition with other display technologies. For example, LG Electronics manufactures plasma display panels, or PDPs, which is an alternative display technology to TFT-LCDs, and it has invested in a PDP production facility in Gumi, Korea, as well as overseas PDP module plants in Mexico, Poland and China. These conflicts may result in alternative display technologies gaining wider market acceptance than TFT-LCDs or a decision by our major shareholders to sell products using other display technologies. 20 Various other conflicts of interest between our two major shareholders and us may arise in the future in a number of areas relating to our business and relationships, including potential acquisitions of businesses or properties, incurrence of indebtedness, financial commitments, sales and marketing functions, indemnity arrangements, service arrangements and the exercise by LG Electronics and Philips Electronics of control over our management and affairs. See “—Our two major shareholders, LG Electronics and Philips Electronics, which together currently own approximately 51.1% of our voting stock, have significant influence over corporate decisions” above and “Item 6.A. Directors and Senior Management” for a description of the composition of our current board of directors. Labor unrest may disrupt our operations. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 47% of our total employees, including those of our subsidiaries, were union members, and production employees accounted for substantially all of these members. We have a collective bargaining arrangement with our labor union, which is negotiated once a year. If our relationship with our employees deteriorates and there is labor unrest resulting in a work stoppage or strike, our production facilities will not be able to continue operations and this will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to strict environmental regulations and we may be subject to fines or restrictions that could cause our operations to be interrupted. Our manufacturing processes generate chemical waste, waste water and other industrial waste at various stages in the manufacturing process, and we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of such chemical by-products and waste substances. We have installed various types of anti-pollution equipment, consistent with industry standards, for the treatment of chemical waste and equipment for the recycling of treated waste water at our various facilities. However, we cannot provide assurance that environmental claims will not be brought against us or that the local or national governments will not take steps toward adopting more stringent environmental standards. Any failure on our part to comply with any present or future environmental regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us, suspension of production or a cessation of operations. In addition, environmental regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant compliance expenses that may materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to our American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, or our Common Stock Future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market may depress our stock price and make it difficult for you to recover the full value of your investment in our common stock or our ADSs. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of our common stock for sale will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. Our two major shareholders, LG Electronics and Philips Electronics together currently own approximately 51.1% of our voting stock. On October 10, 2007, Philips Electronics sold 46.4 million shares of our common stock to financial institutions in a capital markets transaction, which represented approximately 13.0% of our issued share capital, and reduced Philips Electronics’ ownership interest in us from 32.9% as of December 31, 2006 to 19.9% as of December 31, 2007. On March 12, 2008, Philips Electronics sold 24.0 million shares of our common stock to institutional investors and further reduced its ownership interest in us to 13.2%. There is no assurance that Philips Electronics will not further sell a portion of its ownership interest in us. Any future sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market by us or by either of our current major shareholders, LG Electronics and Philips Electronics, or the perception that these events may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease or to be lower than it might be in the absence of these events or perceptions. 21 Our public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by the laws governing Korean corporations. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders and members of our board of directors under Korean law may be different from those that apply to shareholders and directors of a U.S. corporation. For example, minority shareholder rights afforded under Korean law often require the minority shareholder to meet minimum shareholding requirements in order to exercise certain rights. In the case of public companies, a shareholder must own, individually or collectively with other shareholders, at least 0.01% of our common stock for at least six months in order to file a derivative suit on behalf of us. While the facts and circumstances of each case will differ, the duty of care required of a director under Korean law may not be the same as the fiduciary duty of a director of a U.S. corporation. Holders of our common stock or our ADSs may have more difficulty protecting their interests against actions of our management, members of our board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. You may be limited in your ability to deposit or withdraw the common stock underlying the ADSs, which may adversely affect the value of your investment. Under the terms of our deposit agreement, holders of common stock may deposit such common stock with the depositary’s custodian in Korea and obtain ADSs, and holders of ADSs may surrender ADSs to the depositary and receive common stock. However, to the extent that a deposit of common stock exceeds the difference between: • the aggregate number of shares of common stock we have consented to allow to be deposited for the issuance of ADSs (including deposits in connection with offerings of ADSs and stock dividends or other distributions relating to ADSs); and • the number of shares of common stock on deposit with the custodian for the benefit of the depositary at the time of such proposed deposit, such common stock will not be accepted for deposit unless (1) our consent, subject to governmental authorization, with respect to such deposit has been obtained or (2) such consent is no longer required under Korean laws and regulations. Under the terms of the deposit agreement, no consent is required if the shares of common stock are obtained through a dividend, free distribution, rights offering or reclassification of such stock. The current limit on the number of shares that may be deposited into our ADR facility is 68,095,700 as of April 15, 2008. The number of shares issued or sold in any subsequent offering by us or our major shareholders, subject to government authorization, raises the limit on the number of shares that may be deposited into the ADR facility, except to the extent such deposit is prohibited by applicable laws or violates our articles of incorporation, or we determine with the ADR depositary to limit the number of shares of common stock so offered that would be eligible for deposit under the deposit agreement in order to maintain liquidity for the shares in Korea as may be requested by the relevant Korean authorities. We might not consent to the deposit of any additional common stock. As a result, if a holder surrenders ADSs and withdraws common stock, it may not be able to deposit the common stock again to obtain ADSs. Holders of ADSs will not have preemptive rights in some circumstances. The Korean Commercial Code of 1962, as amended, and our articles of incorporation require us, with some exceptions, to offer shareholders the right to subscribe for new shares of our common stock in proportion to their existing shareholding ratio whenever new shares are issued, except under certain circumstances as provided in our articles of incorporation. Accordingly, if we issue new shares to non-shareholders based on such exception, a holder of our ADSs may experience dilution in its holdings. Furthermore, if we offer any right to subscribe for additional shares of our common stock or any rights of any other nature to existing shareholders subject to their preemptive rights, the depositary, after consultation with us, may make the rights available to holders of our 22 ADSs or use reasonable efforts to dispose of the rights on behalf of such holders and make the net proceeds available to such holders. The depositary, however, is not required to make available to holders any rights to purchase any additional shares of our common stock unless it deems that doing so is lawful and feasible and; • a registration statement filed by us under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is in effect with respect to those shares; or • the offering and sale of those shares is exempt from or is not subject to the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Other than our registration rights agreement with each of LG Electronics and Philips Electronics as described in “Item 7.A. Major Shareholders,” we are under no obligation to file any registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, a holder of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in its holdings. If a registration statement is required for a holder of our ADSs to exercise preemptive rights but is not filed by us or is not declared effective, the holder will not be able to exercise its preemptive rights for additional ADSs and it will suffer dilution of its equity interest in us. If the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or feasible, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case the holder will receive no value for these rights. Holders of ADSs will not be able to exercise dissent and appraisal rights unless they have withdrawn the underlying shares of our common stock and become our direct shareholders. In some limited circumstances, including the transfer of the whole or any significant part of our business and our merger or consolidation with another company, dissenting shareholders have the right to require us to purchase their shares under Korean law. However, a holder of our ADSs will not be able to exercise such dissent and appraisal rights if the depositary refuses to do so on their behalf. Our deposit agreement does not require the depositary to take any action in respect of exercising dissent and appraisal rights. In such a situation, holders of our ADSs must withdraw the underlying common stock from the ADS facility (and incur charges relating to that withdrawal) and become our direct shareholder prior to the record date of the shareholders’ meeting at which the relevant transaction is to be approved, in order to exercise dissent and appraisal rights. Dividend payments and the amount you may realize upon a sale of our common stock or ADSs that you hold will be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Korean Won. Cash dividends, if any, in respect of the shares represented by our ADSs will be paid to the depositary in Korean Won and then converted by the depositary into U.S. dollars, subject to certain conditions. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Korean Won and the U.S. dollar will affect, among other things, the amounts a holder will receive from the depositary in respect of dividends, the U.S. dollar value of the proceeds that a holder would receive upon sale in Korea of the shares of our common stock obtained upon surrender of ADSs and the secondary market price of ADSs. Such fluctuations will also affect the U.S. dollar value of dividends and sales proceeds received by holders of our common stock. Risks Relating to Korea If economic conditions in Korea deteriorate, our current business and future growth could be materially and adversely affected. We are incorporated in Korea, and a significant portion of our operations and assets are located in Korea. As a result, we are subject to political, economic, legal and regulatory risks specific to Korea. The economic indicators in Korea in recent years have shown mixed signs, and future growth of the Korean economy is subject to many factors beyond our control. Recent developments in the Middle East, including the war in Iraq and its aftermath, higher oil prices, the general weakness of the global economy due in part to problems in the U.S. mortgage and housing markets and the reduced availability of credit have increased the uncertainty of global 23 economic prospects and may continue to adversely affect the Korean economy. Any future deterioration of the Korean and global economy could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Developments that could have an adverse impact on Korea’s economy include: • a slowdown in consumer spending and the overall economy; • adverse changes or volatility in foreign currency reserve levels, commodity prices (including an increase in oil prices), exchange rates (including fluctuation of the U.S. dollar or Japanese Yen or revaluation of the Chinese RMB), interest rates or stock markets; • deterioration of economic or market conditions in other emerging markets; • adverse developments in the economies of countries that are important export and import markets for Korea, such as the United States, Japan and China, or in emerging market economies in Asia, including the recent volatility and uncertainty of the credit market due to the problems facing the U.S. housing and mortgage markets; • the continued emergence of the Chinese economy, to the extent its benefits (such as increased exports to China) are outweighed by its costs (such as competition in export markets or for foreign investment and the relocation of the manufacturing base from Korea to China); • the economic impact of any pending or future free trade agreements, including the Free Trade Agreement recently negotiated with the United States; • social and labor unrest; • substantial decreases in the market prices of Korean real estate; • a decrease in tax revenues and a substantial increase in the Korean government’s expenditures for unemployment compensation and other social programs that, together, would lead to an increased government budget deficit; • financial problems or lack of progress in restructuring of Korean conglomerates, other large troubled companies, their suppliers or the financial sector; • loss of investor confidence arising from corporate accounting irregularities and corporate governance issues at certain Korean conglomerates; • geo-political uncertainty and risk of further attacks by terrorist groups around the world; • the recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome or an outbreak of avian flu in Asia and other parts of the world; • deterioration in economic or diplomatic relations between Korea and its trading partners or allies, including deterioration resulting from trade disputes or disagreements in foreign policy; • political uncertainty or increasing strife among or within political parties in Korea; • hostilities involving oil producing countries in the Middle East and any material disruption in the supply of oil or increase in the price of oil; and • an increase in the level of tension or an outbreak of hostilities between North Korea and Korea or the United States. Escalations in tensions with North Korea could have an adverse effect on us and the market value of our common stock. Relations between Korea and North Korea have been tense throughout Korea’s modern history. The level of tension between the two Koreas has fluctuated and may increase abruptly as a result of current and future events. In recent years, there have been heightened security concerns stemming from North Korea’s nuclear weapons and long-range missile programs and increased uncertainty regarding North Korea’s actions and possible 24 responses from the international community. In December 2002, North Korea removed the seals and surveillance equipment from its Yongbyon nuclear power plant and evicted inspectors from the United Nations International Atomic Energy Agency. In January 2003, North Korea renounced its obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Since the renouncement, Korea, the United States, North Korea, China, Japan and Russia have held numerous rounds of six party multi-lateral talks in an effort to resolve issues relating to North Korea’s nuclear weapons program. In addition to conducting test flights of long-range missiles, North Korea announced in October 2006 that it had successfully conducted a nuclear test, which increased tensions in the region and elicited strong objections worldwide. In response, the United Nations Security Council passed a resolution that prohibits any United Nations member state from conducting transactions with North Korea in connection with any large scale arms and material or technology related to missile development or weapons of mass destruction and from providing luxury goods to North Korea, imposes an asset freeze and travel ban on persons associated with North Korea’s weapons program, and calls upon all United Nations member states to take cooperative action, including through inspection of cargo to or from North Korea. In response, North Korea agreed in February 2007 at the six-party talks to shut down and seal the Yongbyon nuclear facility, including the reprocessing facility, and readmit international inspectors to conduct all necessary monitoring and verifications. In October 2007, Korea and North Korea held a summit meeting to discuss easing tensions and fostering peace on the Korean peninsula. Mr. Lee Myung Bak, who became the President of Korea in February 2008, has announced that no further summit meetings will be held until North Korea discontinues its nuclear weapons program. There can be no assurance that the level of tension on the Korean peninsula will not escalate in the future. Any further increase in tension, including a breakdown of high-level contacts between Korea and North Korea or occurrence of military hostilities, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and the market value of our common stock. Financial instability in other countries, particularly emerging market countries in Asia, could adversely impact the Korean economy and our business and cause the price of our securities to go down. The Korean market and the Korean economy are influenced by economic and market conditions in other countries, particularly emerging market countries in Asia, including China. Financial turmoil in Asia, Russia and elsewhere in the world in recent years has adversely affected the Korean economy. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to developments in one country can have adverse effects on the securities of companies in other countries, including Korea. A loss of investor confidence in the financial systems of emerging and other markets may cause increased volatility in Korean financial markets. We cannot be certain that financial events of the type that occurred in emerging markets in Asia in 1997 and 1998 will not happen again in Asia or in other markets in which we may invest, or that such events will not have an adverse effect on our business or the market value of our common stock and ADSs. If the Korean government deems that emergency circumstances are likely to occur, it may restrict holders of our ADSs and the depositary from converting and remitting dividends and other amounts in U.S. dollars. Under the Korean Foreign Exchange Transaction Law, if the Korean government deems that certain emergency circumstances, including sudden fluctuations in interest rates or exchange rates, extreme difficulty in stabilizing the balance of payments or substantial disturbance in the Korean financial and capital markets, are likely to occur, it may impose any necessary restrictions as requiring Korean or foreign investors to obtain prior approval from the Minister of Strategy and Finance for the acquisition of Korean securities or the repatriation of interest, dividends or sales proceeds arising from Korean securities or from disposition of such securities or other transactions involving foreign exchange. See “Item 10.D. Exchange Controls.” 25 