ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in the Company, investors should consider, among other factors, the following: Changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. The operations of financial institutions such as the Company are dependent to a large degree on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from loans and investments and interest expense on deposits and borrowings. An institution’s net interest income is significantly affected by market rates of interest that in turn are affected by prevailing economic conditions, by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and by the policies of various regulatory agencies. The Federal Reserve Board (FRB) regulates the national money supply in order to manage recessionary and inflationary pressures. In doing so, the FRB may use techniques such as engaging in open market transactions of U.S. Government securities, changing the discount rate and changing reserve requirements against bank deposits. The use of these techniques may also affect interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The interest rate environment, which includes both the level of interest rates and the shape of the U.S. Treasury yield curve, has a significant impact on net interest income. Like all financial institutions, the Company’s balance sheet is affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Volatility in interest rates can also result in disintermediation, which is the flow of deposits away from financial institutions into direct investments, such as US Government and corporate securities and other investment vehicles, including mutual funds, which, because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements, generally pay higher rates of return than bank deposit products. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk”. Changes in economic conditions and the composition of the Company’s loan portfolio could lead to an increase in the allowance for loan losses, which could decrease earnings. The Company has established an allowance for loan losses which management believes to be adequate to offset probable losses on the Company’s existing loans. However, there is no precise method of estimating loan losses. There can be no assurance that any future declines in real estate market conditions, general economic conditions or changes in regulatory policies will not require the Company to increase its allowance for loan losses, which could reduce earnings. Furthermore, an increase in unemployment could cause an increase in loan charge-offs. Declines in value may adversely impact the investment portfolio. We have not realized any non-cash, other-than-temporary impairment charges during 2008 as a result of reductions in fair value below original cost of any investments in our investment portfolio. However, we could be required to record future impairment charges on our investment securities if they suffer any declines in value that are considered other-than-temporary. Considerations used to determine other-than-temporary impairment status to individual holdings include the length of time the stock has remained in an unrealized loss position, and the percentage of unrealized loss compared to the carrying cost of the stock, dividend reduction or suspension, market analyst reviews and expectations, and other pertinent news that would affect expectations for recovery or further decline. Recent negative developments in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our results of operations and our stock price. The recent national and global economic downturn has resulted in unprecedented levels of financial market volatility which may depress the market value of financial institutions, limit access to capital or have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of banking companies. In addition, the possible duration and severity of the adverse economic cycle is unknown and may exacerbate our exposure to credit risk. The United States Treasury and the FDIC have initiated programs to address economic stabilization, yet the effectiveness of these 14 programs in stabilizing the economy and the banking system at large are uncertain. Negative developments in the latter half of 2007 and 2008 in the subprime mortgage market and the securitization markets for such loans have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing through 2009. As a result of this “credit crunch,” commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly, due to liquidity concerns at many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. As a result, financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards identified in examinations, including issuing many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of potential new legislation and regulations in response to those developments could negatively impact our business by restricting our operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans or raise additional capital, and could adversely impact our financial performance and stock price. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. Recently, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in economic conditions and related uncertainties may have an adverse affect on the Company’s profitability. Commercial banking is affected, directly and indirectly, by local, domestic, and international economic and political conditions, and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, tight money supply, real estate values, international conflicts and other factors beyond the Company’s control may adversely affect the potential profitability of the Company. Any future rises in interest rates, while increasing the income yield on the Company’s earnings assets, may adversely affect loan demand and the cost of funds and, consequently, the profitability of the Company. Any future decreases in interest rates may adversely affect the Company’s profitability because such decreases may reduce the amounts that the Company may earn on its assets. A continued recessionary climate could result in the delinquency of outstanding loans. Management does not expect any one particular factor to have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations. However, downtrends in several areas, 15 including real estate, construction and consumer spending, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. Our results of operations are significantly affected by the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. Lending money is an essential part of the banking business. However, borrowers do not always repay their loans. The risk of non-payment is affected by credit risks of a particular borrower, changes in economic and industry conditions, the duration of the loan and in the case of a collateralized loan, uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral. The supervision and regulation to which the Company is subject can be a competitive disadvantage. The operations of the Company and the Bank are heavily regulated and will be affected by present and future legislation and by the policies established from time to time by various federal and state regulatory authorities. In particular, the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of banks in the past, and are expected to continue to do so in the future. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve to implement its objectives are changes in the discount rate charged on bank borrowings and changes in the reserve requirements on bank deposits. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to the monetary polices of the Federal Reserve or to existing federal and state legislation or the effect that such changes may have on the future business and earnings prospects of the Company. The Company is subject to changes in federal and state tax laws as well as changes in banking and credit regulations, accounting principles and governmental economic and monetary policies. During the past several years, significant legislative attention has been focused on the regulation and deregulation of the financial services industry. Non-bank financial institutions, such as securities brokerage firms, insurance companies and money market funds, have been permitted to engage in activities that compete directly with traditional bank business. The competition the Company faces is increasing and may reduce our customer base and negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. There is significant competition among banks in the market areas served by the Company. In addition, as a result of deregulation of the financial industry, the Bank also competes with other providers of financial services such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, securities firms, insurance companies, the mutual funds industry, full service brokerage firms and discount brokerage firms, some of which are subject to less extensive regulations than the Company with respect to the products and services they provide. Some of the Company’s competitors have greater resources than the Corporation and, as a result, may have higher lending limits and may offer other services not offered by our Company. See “Item 1: Business — Competition.” Our deposit insurance premium could be substantially higher in the future which would have an adverse effect on our future earnings. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured financial institutions, including Village Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, which may result in the FDIC making more payments from the Deposit Insurance Fund and, in connection therewith, raising deposit premiums. In February 2009, the FDIC finalized a rule that increases premiums paid by insured institutions and makes other changes to the assessment system. Additionally, the FDIC adopted an interim rule that imposes an emergency special assessment in the second quarter of 2009 and further gives the FDIC authority to impose additional emergency special assessments of up to 10 basis points in subsequent quarters. These significant 16 final and proposed increases will adversely affect our net income. Concern of customers over deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits. With the recent news about bank failures, customers are increasingly concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with us is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. The actions of the U.S. Government for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets, or market response to those actions, may not achieve the intended effect, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. In response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the U.S. Congress recently enacted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”). The EESA provides the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury with the authority to establish a Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) to purchase from financial institutions up to $700 billion of residential or commercial mortgages and any securities, obligations or other instruments that are based on or related to such mortgages, that in each case was originated or issued on or before March 14, 2008, as well as any other financial instrument that the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, after consultation with the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, determines the purchase of which is necessary to promote financial market stability. As part of the EESA, the Treasury Department has developed a Capital Purchase Program to purchase up to $250 billion in senior preferred stock from qualifying financial institutions. The Capital Purchase Program was designed to strengthen the capital and liquidity positions of viable institutions and to encourage banks and thrifts to increase lending to creditworthy borrowers. The EESA also increases the insurance coverage of deposit accounts to $250,000 per depositor. In a related action, the FDIC established a Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program under which the FDIC provides a guarantee for newly-issued senior unsecured debt and non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts at eligible insured institutions. For non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts, a 10 basis point annual rate surcharge will be applied to deposit amounts in excess of $250,000. We have applied for participation in the Capital Purchase Program and have opted to participate in the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program for the additional coverage for non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts, available until December 31, 2009. In February 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“the Stimulus Bill”) was enacted, which is intended to stabilize the financial markets and slow or reverse the downturn in the U.S. economy, and which revised certain provisions of the EESA. The U.S. Congress or federal banking regulatory agencies could adopt additional regulatory requirements or restrictions in response to the threats to the financial system and such changes may adversely affect our operations. There can be no assurance that the EESA and its implementing regulations, the Stimulus Bill, the FDIC programs, or any other governmental program will have a positive impact on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the Stimulus Bill, the FDIC programs, or any other actions of the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or the trading price of the Company’s common stock. Fluctuations in the stock market could negatively affect the value of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s common stock trades under the symbol “VBFC” on the Nasdaq Capital Market. There can be no assurance that a regular and active market for the Common Stock will develop in the foreseeable future. See “Item 5: Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.” Investors in the shares of common stock may, therefore, be required to assume the risk of their investment for an indefinite period of 17 time. Current lack of investor confidence in large banks may keep investors away from the banking sector as a whole, causing unjustified deterioration in the trading prices of well-capitalized community banks such as the Company. If the Company fails to maintain an effective system of internal controls, it may not be able to accurately report its financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which could harm its business and the trading price of its common stock. The Company has established a process to document and evaluate its internal controls over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations, which require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In this regard, management has dedicated internal resources, engaged outside consultants and adopted a detailed work plan to (i) assess and document the adequacy of internal controls over financial reporting, (ii) take steps to improve control processes, where appropriate, (iii) validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and (iv) implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. The Company’s efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding the Company’s assessment of its internal controls over financial reporting. The Company’s management and audit committee have given the Company’s compliance with Section 404 a high priority. The Company cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that the Company implements and maintains adequate controls over its financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm the Company’s operating results or cause the Company to fail to meet its reporting obligations. If the Company fails to correct any issues in the design or operating effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting or fails to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which could harm its business and the trading price of its common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 