Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are certain risk factors that could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. You should carefully read the following risk factors, together with the financial statements, related notes and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that contain risks and uncertainties. Please refer to the discussion of “Forward-Looking Statements” on page one of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in connection with your consideration of the risk factors and other important factors that may affect future results described below. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The highly cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry could adversely affect our operating results. Our business and operating results depend to a significant extent on capital expenditures by companies in the semiconductor industry that purchase our ATE. Historically, the semiconductor industry has been highly cyclical with recurring periods of over-supply. These cycles typically have a disproportionately negative impact on capital equipment manufacturers, including providers of test systems like Eagle Test. In most cases, the decrease in capital expenditures for test systems by our customers is more pronounced than the downturn in the overall semiconductor industry. We believe that semiconductor industry downturns will likely recur, and because they often occur very rapidly, we cannot adequately foresee their timing and extent, or their effect on customer orders and revenues. If we do not accurately predict the timing or extent of a downturn, we may not adequately reduce our operating expenses in light of decreased revenue, which will adversely affect our financial performance, and potentially our stock price. During downturns we experienced, and in the future we may experience: • decreased customer orders, test systems shipments and revenue; • decreases in backlog; • decreases in the average selling prices, or ASPs, of our test systems; • delays in order commitments; • lower operating margins; • increases in order cancellations and customer-requested shipment delays; • excess production capacity; • delays in collecting accounts receivable; and • excessive inventory levels. As a result of these and other factors, industry downturns are expected to negatively impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, such downturns, or the speculation about such downturns by investors or industry analysts, may have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period and this may cause our stock price to decline. In the past we have experienced, and in the future we expect to experience, fluctuations in revenues and results of operations from quarter to quarter. These fluctuations can be caused by a variety of factors including: • rapid shifts in demand for, or acceptance of, our products as a result of the cyclical nature of the semiconductor equipment industry or otherwise, often resulting in sharp reductions in equipment sales during industry downturns and increased equipment sales during periods of industry recovery; • the loss of a significant customer or reduced capital spending by a customer; • delays, cancellations or reschedulings, or other changes in the timing or terms of product shipments; 11 Table of Contents • acceleration or postponement of existing customer order delivery dates; • delays in acceptance of products as a result of our failure to meet customers’ specifications; • the timing of our new product introductions, and market acceptance of our new products and enhanced versions of our existing products; • our competitors’ announcements of new products, services or technological innovations, which can, among other things, render our products less competitive; • competitive pressures resulting in lower ASPs for our test systems; • lower gross margins in any period due to changes in our product mix or increased prices for components; • our inability to quickly reduce our fixed costs or management’s decision to maintain headcount notwithstanding decreased demand for our products; • disruptions in our manufacturing or in our supply of components, causing us to delay shipment of our products; and • write-offs of excess or obsolete inventory and accounts receivable that are not collectible. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from the sale of a relatively small number of test systems. Accordingly, a decline in the number, or change in the timing or terms, of the test systems we sell from quarter-to-quarter may also cause significant changes in our results of operations. This, in turn, would likely cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results are not necessarily meaningful or an accurate indicator of our future performance. Because of this difficulty in predicting future performance, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors in future quarters. Our failure to meet these expectations would likely cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of any of these customers will adversely affect our revenue. A small number of customers has accounted for a significant portion of our revenue in any particular period. We expect that we will continue to depend on a small number of customers to account for a significant percentage of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Our customers, including our most significant customers, are not obligated by long-term contracts to purchase our test systems, and may cancel orders with little regard for potential penalties. If any of our large customers reduces or cancels its purchases from us for any reason, it could have an adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. For additional information, see the section entitled “Business — Customers” in Part I, Item 1. in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We face difficulty in obtaining new customers because of the high cost of switching test equipment vendors in our markets. Semiconductor companies typically select one vendor’s systems for testing an entire product family of semiconductors, and make substantial investments to obtain test systems and ancillary equipment, and to develop related test program software. Once a semiconductor company has implemented a test system for a product family of semiconductors, it is often difficult and costly to switch to another vendor’s test system because the test system is often part of the product specifications for a newly developed device. Accordingly, unless our test systems offer substantial performance or cost advantages that materially outweigh a customer’s expense of switching to our test systems, it will be difficult for us to achieve significant sales to that customer once it has selected another vendor’s test system for an application. 12 Table of Contents Our sales cycle is long, requires significant investment, and may not result in additional sales. Our customers generally take considerable time to evaluate our test systems, and many people are involved in the evaluation and decision-making process. Our product sales cycle typically ranges from six to nine months. Sometimes our sales cycle can be much longer, particularly when the sales process involves developing new test programs for our customers or the introduction of new products. During the sales process, we commit substantial time and financial resources to our sales efforts prior to receiving any revenue. Despite these efforts, we may never receive any revenue from such potential customers. The length of time it takes for us to complete a sale and the extent of our investment depends on many factors, including: • the capital expenditure budgets and capital equipment needs of our customers; • the willingness and ability of customers to incur the expense of adopting new product platforms; • the internal technical capabilities and sophistication of our customers; • the efforts and effectiveness of our sales force; and • the need for and our success in demonstrating our technical and manufacturing capabilities to meet our customers’ requirements. In addition, if we do make a sale to a new customer, the customer may purchase only one of our test systems, or may evaluate a test system’s performance for a lengthy period of time before considering whether to purchase any additional test systems from us. Variations in the length of the period between purchases by new customers can cause our revenue and results of operations to vary widely from period to period. We face substantial competition that, among other things, may adversely affect our sales and may lead to price pressure. We face substantial competition in the ATE market throughout the world. Our principal competitors include Credence Systems Corporation, LTX Corporation and Teradyne, Inc. Some of these competitors have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or market developments by devoting greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, which could impair our revenue. Some of these competitors also have broader product offerings, larger installed customer bases and more extensive customer support capabilities than we do. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of and support for their current products and to introduce new products, technologies or services that could adversely affect sales of our current and future products. In addition, other test equipment companies that do not currently focus on our target markets could choose to do so. We may not be able to compete effectively with any new or current competitors, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. Our competitors may also elect to reduce the prices of their products in order to increase their market share or obtain new customers, leading to a reduction in test system ASPs throughout our industry. We may be required to react to these and other competitive dynamics. Any decrease in the prices of our test systems or any increase in the discounts granted to our customers could adversely impact our growth, revenue and results of operations. We rely on a few key employees and our success depends on our ability to hire and retain key personnel. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key executive officers, including Leonard Foxman, our founder and Chief Executive Officer, Theodore Foxman, our Chief Operating Officer, and Stephen J. Hawrysz, our Chief Financial Officer. Leonard Foxman has managed us since our inception and would be extremely difficult to replace. We are also dependent on the continued service of our key research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and sales personnel, each of whom possesses unique skills and experience. Although we have employment and non-competition agreements with each of our executive officers, these individuals or other key employees may nevertheless leave us. Because these employees would be difficult to replace, the loss of any of our key employees could have an adverse effect on our business, 13 Table of Contents financial condition and results of operations. Also, to support our current operations and future growth, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified employees. Competition for qualified personnel in the technology area is intense, and we operate in several geographic locations where labor markets are particularly competitive. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our management team to operate effectively, both individually and as a group. Our business may be harmed if we do not successfully allocate responsibilities among our management team or if some members of our management team do not succeed in their roles. If we fail to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, if we are unable to timely complete our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest to our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions and a loss of public confidence and the trading price of our stock could be negatively impacted. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively detect and prevent fraud. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, under currently published SEC rules, we will be required beginning with our fiscal year ending September 30, 2007 to include in our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, our registered independent public accounting firm will be required to report on our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and separately report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Under rules recently proposed by the SEC, we may not be required to complete this assessment until our fiscal year ending September 30, 2008. We have begun but have not yet completed our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to timely complete this assessment, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest to our assessment when required, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions and a loss of public confidence. Also, the lack of effective internal control over financial reporting may adversely impact our ability to prepare timely and accurate financial statements. We have grown rapidly and if we fail to manage our growth, our business will suffer. Although we commenced operations in 1976, over the past five years we have experienced, and continue to experience, rapid growth in our operations. This growth has included hiring key personnel, relocating our manufacturing facility, entering foreign markets and developing new customer relationships. We anticipate that further expansion of our operations will be required to address potential growth in our customer base and market opportunities. This expansion has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a substantial strain on our management, operational and financial resources. In order to manage future growth, we will be required to improve existing, and implement new, operating and management systems, procedures and controls. We also need to hire, train and manage additional qualified personnel. A significant factor in our growth has been a substantial increase in customer demand for our products. If we do not effectively manage our growth, including the addition and training of new personnel, we will not adequately satisfy such demand. In addition, the quality of our test systems or our ability to manufacture and ship our test systems on a timely basis could suffer. This could negatively impact our reputation, revenue and results of operations and lead to order cancellations or a decrease in order volume. If we are not successful in developing new and enhanced products, we will lose market share to our competitors and our operating results will suffer. We operate in an industry that is characterized by evolving industry standards and rapid technological advancements. To remain competitive, we must design, develop and introduce in a timely manner new test systems or improve our existing test systems in order to meet the performance and price demands of our 14 Table of Contents customers and prospective customers. Our success in this regard will depend on many factors, including our ability to: • successfully develop and commercialize innovative products that are differentiated from our competitors’ offerings; • properly and quickly identify customer needs and anticipate technological advances and industry trends; • quickly adjust to changing industry conditions and product announcements by competitors; and • establish manufacturing processes that will enable us to build and timely deliver new or enhanced products to specification in sufficient volumes. We must devote resources to research and development to remain innovative and competitive with rapidly evolving industry technologies and emerging trends. In light of the long product development cycles inherent in our industry, development of new products generally requires a substantial investment well before commercial viability or the prospect of deriving any revenue from new products. The future success of our new technologies, products and services also depends on broad acceptance among our customers. In addition, new methods of testing semiconductors may be developed. These developments may render our products uncompetitive or obsolete. If we fail to adequately predict our customers’ needs and technological advances, we may invest heavily in the research and development of products and services that do not lead to significant revenue, or we may fail to invest in research and development necessary to satisfy evolving customer demands. Products that do not meet customer specifications or that contain defects could cause us to lose customers and revenue. We must develop and deliver reliable customized hardware and software to meet our customers’ specific ATE requirements. The complexity and ongoing development of our products could lead to design or manufacturing problems. If any of our products fails to meet specifications, the customer may delay or reject acceptance of the test system and the recognition of revenue from these sales will be delayed or forfeited. Moreover, if any of our products has reliability or quality problems, we may be required to replace the test system or issue the customer an equipment credit in accordance with the customer’s warranty terms. If these quality problems occur, our reputation could be damaged significantly and customers might be reluctant to buy our products, which could result in a decline in revenue, an increase in product returns, the loss of existing customers and/or the failure to attract new customers. You should not rely on our level of backlog as an indication of our future revenues. Since customers typically cancel or delay their orders with little regard for potential penalties, and since new order volume may decrease very rapidly, our backlog, if any, at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of our future backlog or actual sales that may be generated for any succeeding period. Any change in our manufacturing capacity and the time it takes to ship our products will affect our level of backlog. Historically, our backlog levels have also fluctuated based on our customers’ ordering patterns and our inability to predict order trends in the semiconductor industry with any certainty. During an industry downturn, our backlog could be substantially reduced or eliminated. Accordingly, you should not rely on our level of backlog as an indication of our future revenues. For additional information, see the section entitled “Business — Backlog” in Part I, Item 1. in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We obtain some of the components and subassemblies included in our test systems from a limited number of suppliers and subcontractors, which may result in production delays, loss of revenue or increased costs. We obtain some of the components and subassemblies included in our test systems from a limited number of, or in some cases sole source, suppliers and subcontractors with whom we do not have long-term contracts. These suppliers and subcontractors are under no obligation to supply our requirements. This reliance gives us less control over the manufacturing process and exposes us to significant risks. Identifying and qualifying new 15 Table of Contents or alternative sources of these materials can be a lengthy and difficult process. From time to time, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of components or subassemblies. In addition, the lead time required for shipments of some of our components or subassemblies can be lengthy and such lead time may increase in periods of heightened demand. We may also experience increases in the prices of these components or subassemblies, delays in delivery and poor component or subassembly quality. If we are unable to accurately predict our component and subassembly needs, if our supply is disrupted or delayed, if any of the components or subassemblies on which we rely are discontinued due to obsolescence or otherwise, or if we otherwise experience any other adverse change in our relationships with these suppliers or subcontractors, we would experience a delay in shipments of our test systems, damage to our customer relationships, an increase in our production costs and/or a reduction in our sales, any of which could have an adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. If we cannot accurately plan the production of products to meet our customers’ demands, we could incur excess inventory or miss sales opportunities. Due to the volatile nature of our industry, we cannot predict with certainty future levels of purchase orders. In anticipation of future orders, we typically order components and subassemblies and build some inventory in advance of the receipt of actual purchase orders. If we do not obtain orders as we anticipate, or if orders are cancelled, we could have excess inventory for a specific product that we would not be able to return to our suppliers, potentially resulting in inventory write-offs, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Alternatively, if we underestimate our component and subassembly needs, we may not be able to meet the demand for our test systems on a timely basis and we may miss opportunities for additional sales of our test systems, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and customer relationships. Our manufacturing activities are conducted at a single facility, and any prolonged disruption in the operations of that facility could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Once we receive subassemblies and other components from our subcontractors and suppliers, we complete the production of all of our test systems in our manufacturing facility located in Buffalo Grove, Illinois. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of our manufacturing facility, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction or damage as a result of a fire or extreme weather conditions or any other reason, could seriously harm our ability to satisfy our customers’ order deadlines. If we cannot deliver our test systems in a timely manner, our reputation, revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have no experience with acquiring other companies and our future efforts to do so may subject us to significant costs without the realization of the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions. As a public company, we believe we have greater opportunities to make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, complementary companies, products or technologies, although no acquisitions or investments are currently pending or planned. This is due to the fact that we have additional available capital for these purposes, as well as a market-determined value for our common stock. To date, our management has had very little experience completing acquisitions or managing the integration of acquisitions. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully complete or integrate any business, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire or seek to acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could harm our business. Furthermore, any future acquisitions, if completed, would subject us to many risks, including: • difficulties in integrating the products, operations or personnel of acquired companies into our business; • diversion of our management’s attention from our ongoing operations; • additional expenses associated with amortization of acquired assets or impairment of acquired goodwill; • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • potential impairment of existing relationships with employees, suppliers and customers as a result of the difficulties in integration of new management personnel; and • dilution to our stockholders in the event we issue stock to finance an acquisition or increased leverage if we incur debt to finance an acquisition. 16 Table of Contents Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations, particularly in Asia, could adversely affect our revenue. Because our products and services are sold worldwide, we are subject to the risks associated with conducting business internationally. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Our international operations subject us to many risks, including: • economic and political instability; • compliance with foreign and domestic laws and regulations; • changes in foreign and domestic legal and regulatory requirements or policies resulting in burdensome government controls, tariffs, restrictions, embargoes or export license requirements; • longer payment cycles common in foreign markets; • difficulties in staffing and managing our international operations; • less favorable foreign intellectual property laws making it more difficult to protect our technology from appropriation by competitors; • potentially adverse tax treatment; • difficulties with distributors; • difficulties collecting our accounts receivable; and • natural disasters. In particular, the economies of Asia have been highly volatile in the past, resulting in significant fluctuations in local currencies and other instabilities. In recent years, many countries in Asia have experienced weakness in their currency, banking and equity markets as a result of certain events, including the occurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. These instabilities continue and may recur. Our exposure to the business risks presented by the economies of Asia will increase to the extent that we and our customers continue to expand operations in that region. Any instability in Malaysia or elsewhere in the Asia Pacific region, including those resulting from any additional outbreak of SARS or a potential outbreak of avian influenza, could delay customer acceptance of our products or prevent us from installing or servicing our products sold in the affected region. We could experience a decline in international sales due to currency fluctuations. All of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, if the U.S. dollar rises in relation to foreign currencies, our test systems will become more expensive to customers outside the U.S. and less competitive with systems produced by local competitors. These conditions could adversely impact our international sales volume or force us to lower our prices internationally. In the past, there have been, and in the future there may be, significant fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of countries in which we do business. In addition, competitive conditions in the future may require us to enter into purchase orders denominated in foreign currencies. While we have not entered into foreign currency hedging arrangements in the past, we may do so in the future. We cannot assure you that any hedging transactions we may enter into will be effective or will not result in foreign exchange hedging losses. Accounting for employee stock options using the fair value method could significantly reduce our net income. We have adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R — “Share-Based Payment” effective October 1, 2005, which requires us to expense stock options in the income statement based on option grant date fair value. We are using the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model to determine the fair value of stock options granted and will amortize this amount to compensation expense as options vest and have adopted the prospective method of transition as of the date of adoption. See Notes 2 and 12 of Notes to 17 Table of Contents Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed presentation of accounting for stock-based compensation plans. If we issue a significant option grant, or series of option grants, the stock-based compensation expense related to these grants may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we could be prevented from selling our products or services, or suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses, even if these claims have no merit. Our competitive position is driven in large part by our proprietary products, processes and services, such as SmartPintm and our floating resource architecture. Third parties, however, may claim that we or our products, systems or operations are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our assets, technology, products and services. Any litigation regarding patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights, even those without merit, could be costly and time consuming, and divert our management and key personnel from operating our business. The complexity of the technology involved and inherent uncertainty and cost of intellectual property litigation increases our risks. If any third party has a meritorious or successful claim that we are infringing its intellectual property rights, we may be forced to change our products, services or manufacturing processes, which may be costly or impractical. If we are unable to make such changes to avoid infringing third party intellectual property rights, we may be forced to enter into royalty or license agreements. However, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and we may therefore be required to cease the infringing aspect of our operations. This may require us to stop selling our products as currently engineered, which could harm our competitive position. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions that prevent the further development of certain of our products or services. Third parties may infringe or design around our intellectual property rights, and we may expend significant resources enforcing our rights or suffer competitive injury. Our success and competitive position depend in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property rights protecting our products and services. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. We may be required to spend significant resources to establish, monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to detect infringement and we may lose our competitive position in the market before we do so. If we fail to successfully protect our intellectual property rights, or competitors design around our technology or develop competing technologies, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our results of operations. We own two patents. These patents or any new patents may not be sufficient in scope or strength to provide us with a significant competitive advantage, and the validity or scope of the patents may be challenged by third parties. We may not be able to develop additional proprietary technology that is patentable. If we do file patent applications on additional technology, the applications may not be allowed. Moreover, the scope of our patents is limited, which could allow competitors to design around the scope of our patents. In addition to patent protection, we rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information and technology. We routinely enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and other third parties. However, in the event these agreements may be breached, we may not have adequate available remedies. Our confidential and proprietary information and technology might also be independently developed by or otherwise become known by third parties, which may damage our competitive position. We have filed federal trademark applications to help protect certain trademarks that we use in conjunction with our business, including EAGLE TEST SYSTEMS, EAGLE TEST SYSTEMS (& design), SMARTPIN, SIMULTEST, CHAMELEON, EAGLE VISION, PATTERN-BASED TESTING and our Eagle logo. Our pending applications may not be registered by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and third parties may challenge the validity or scope of the trademark applications or registrations. 18 Table of Contents Despite our proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that others will not develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our products. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may be less effective in some foreign countries where intellectual property rights are not as well protected as in the United States. We have not sought patent protection or registered our trademarks outside the U.S., which may impair our ability to use or protect our technology and brand in foreign jurisdictions. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the U.S. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their proprietary rights against copying or infringement in such countries, some of which are countries in which we have sold and continue to sell our systems. There is a risk that our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate in these countries. Our competitors in these countries may independently develop similar technology or duplicate our test systems, even if unauthorized, thus likely reducing our sales in these countries. Risks Related to our Common Stock and our Capital Structure There is a limited history of a trading market for our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may be highly volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. There has only been a public market for our common stock since the completion of our initial public offering in March 2006. The trading market in our common stock may be volatile. The market prices of the securities of newly public companies have been volatile, and have been known to decline rapidly. Broad market and industry conditions and trends may cause fluctuations in the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Future sales of our shares could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have only been a public company since March 2006. For the quarterly period ended September 30, 2006, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market has been less than 194,000 shares. On October 3, 2006, we completed a public offering of 5,500,000 shares of common stock, 2,000,000 of which were sold by us and 3,500,000 of which were sold by certain of our stockholders. In connection with this public offering, all directors, executive officers, and certain significant stockholders other than the Employee Stock Ownership Plan, entered into lock-up agreements with the underwriters of that offering. As a result of these lock-up agreements, 9,824,308 shares of our common stock are subject to contractual restrictions on resale, through December 26, 2006. The Employee Stock Ownership Plan is able to sell or distribute its shares of our common stock under certain circumstances. We currently anticipate that the Employee Stock Ownership Plan will distribute 834,565 shares of our common stock to employees, to be held in individual self-directed accounts. Other than this anticipated distribution, we have agreed not to cause the disposition of any shares of our common stock currently held by the Employee Stock Ownership Plan prior to December 26, 2006, without the prior written consent of the underwriters of our recent public offering. In addition, we have agreed not to cause the Employee Stock Ownership Plan to transfer investment control over 834,565 shares of our common stock to employees, or otherwise take any action that would result in a transfer of investment control to employees, until after December 1, 2006, thus preventing the sale of these shares prior to such date. After the date of such transfer of investment control to employees, and after the effective date of a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act which we expect to file prior to such date to register these shares, such shares will be generally available for resale in the public market, except for 73,009 shares of common stock held by executive officers that will be subject to the lock-up agreements described above. 19 Table of Contents After the expiration of the “lock-up” period described above, we will not be contractually prohibited from issuing and selling additional shares of our common stock. Any future sale by us or our current stockholders of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. Our directors and certain significant stockholders exercise significant control over Eagle Test. Our directors, and significant stockholders and their affiliates, including TA Associates, collectively control approximately 47.0% of our outstanding common stock. Investment funds affiliated with TA Associates hold an aggregate of 29.2% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, are able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Eagle Test and might affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may deter third parties from acquiring us. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including the following: • our board of directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • only our board of directors may call special meetings of our stockholders; • our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of our stockholders and not by written consent; • we have authorized undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval and may be used in connection with the adoption of a stockholder rights plan; • stockholder approval of amendments of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws require a vote of 75% of our outstanding shares; • vacancies on the board of directors may be filled only by the directors; • our directors may be removed only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of 75% of the votes that all stockholders would be entitled to cast in the election of directors; and • we require advance notice for stockholder proposals. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions that you desire. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may delay, defer or prevent a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder absent prior approval of our board of directors. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. 20 Table of Contents Our Website Our web site is www.eagletest.com. We make available, free of charge through our website, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, including exhibits, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We make these reports available through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after our electronic filing of such materials with, or the furnishing of them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained or incorporated on our web site is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 