Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. 6 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Industry We operate in a highly competitive environment and we may not be able to sustain our current market position. The TFT-LCD industry is highly competitive. We have experienced pressure on the prices and margins of our major products due largely to additional industry capacity from panel makers in Korea, Taiwan, China and Japan. Our main competitors in the industry include Samsung Electronics, BOE-Hydis, AU Optronics, Chi Mei Optoelectronics, Chunghwa Picture Tubes, HannStar, Quanta Display, SVA-NEC, BOE-OT, Sharp and Hitachi. Some of our competitors may currently, or at some point in the future, have greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, research and development or technological resources than we do. In addition, our competitors may be able to manufacture panels on a larger scale or with greater cost efficiencies than we do and we anticipate increases in production capacity in the near future by other TFT-LCD manufacturers. Any price erosion resulting from strong global competition or additional industry capacity may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We and our competitors each seek to establish our own products as the industry standards. For example, in the growing large-sized television panel market, we currently manufacture 32-inch, 37-inch, 42-inch and 47-inch television panels. Other TFT-LCD manufacturers produce competitive large-sized television panels in slightly different dimensions. If our competitors’ panels become the standard market size, we may lose market share, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to compete successfully also depends on factors both within and outside our control, including product pricing, performance and reliability, successful and timely investment and product development, success or failure of our end-brand customers in marketing their brands and products, component and raw material supply costs, and general economic and industry conditions. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors on these fronts and, as a result, we may be unable to sustain our current market position. Our industry is subject to cyclical fluctuations, including recurring periods of capacity increases, that may adversely affect our operating results. TFT-LCD manufacturers are vulnerable to cyclical market conditions. Intense competition and demand growth expectations may result in panel manufacturers investing in manufacturing capacity on similar schedules, resulting in a surge in capacity when production is ramped up at new fabrication facilities. During such surges in capacity growth, our customers can exert and have exerted strong downward pricing pressure, resulting in sharp declines in average selling prices and significant fluctuations in our gross margins. Conversely, demand surges and fluctuations in the supply chain can lead to price increases. For example, the overall average selling price of our display panels, including small panel applications, decreased by 28.4% from 2002 to 2003, by 29.6% from 2003 to 2004 and by 36.0% from 2004 to 2005. Our gross margins have also fluctuated from period to period, from 22.3% in 2003 to 25.0% in 2004 to 10.0% in 2005. Principal factors affecting our gross margins include our ability to maintain or increase unit sales volume and market share, minimize the impact of fluctuations in prices and foreign exchange rates and the supply and demand for principal components and raw materials, reduce unit manufacturing costs and introduce new products with higher margins in a timely manner. We anticipate continued capacity expansion in the TFT-LCD industry due to scheduled ramp up of new fabrication facilities, and any large increases in capacity that this may create may further drive down the average selling prices of our panels, which would affect our gross margins. Any decline in prices may be further compounded by a seasonal weakening in demand growth for personal computer products, consumer electronics products and our other application products. We cannot assure you that any future downturns resulting from any large increases in capacity or other factors affecting the industry would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents We may experience declines in the average selling prices of our display panels irrespective of cyclical fluctuations in the industry. The average selling prices of our display panels have declined in general and are expected to continually decline with time irrespective of industry-wide fluctuations as a result of, among other factors, technology advances and cost reductions. Although we may be able to take advantage of the higher selling prices typically associated with new products and technologies, we cannot provide assurance that we can maintain these prices in the face of market competition. For example, our gross margin declined from 25.0% in 2004 to 10.0% in 2005. If we are unable to effectively anticipate and counter the price erosion that accompanies our products, or if we are unable to reduce our manufacturing costs, our profit margins will be negatively affected. Our operating results fluctuate from period to period, so you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons to predict our future performance. The TFT-LCD industry is affected by market conditions that are often outside the control of manufacturers. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to a number of factors, including seasonal variations in consumer demand, capacity ramp up by competitors, industry-wide technological changes, the loss of a key customer and the postponement, rescheduling or cancellation of large orders by a key customer. As a result of these factors and other risks discussed in this section, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons to predict our future performance. Risks Relating to Our Company Our financial condition may be adversely affected if we cannot introduce new products to adapt to rapidly evolving customer needs on a timely basis. New products are developed in anticipation of future demand. Our success will depend greatly on our ability to respond quickly to emerging customer requirements and to develop new products in anticipation of future demand. Any delay in our development of commercially successful products with reliable quality and advanced features may adversely affect our business. Success of a new product also depends on other factors such as close cooperation with our customers to gain insights into their product needs and to understand general trends in the market. When developing new products, we often work with equipment suppliers to design equipment that will make our production processes for such new products more efficient. If we are unable to work together with our customers and equipment suppliers, or to sufficiently understand their respective needs and capabilities, we may not be able to introduce new products in a timely manner, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial situation. We plan to continue to expand our operations to meet the growing demand for new applications in consumer electronics and other markets. Because these products, such as televisions, mobile phones and personal digital assistants are expected to be marketed to a diverse group of end users with different specifications, functions and prices, we have developed different sales and marketing strategies to promote our panels for these products. We cannot provide assurance that our expansion strategy for these panels will be successful. Problems with product quality, including defects, in our TFT-LCD panels could result in a decrease in customers and sales, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. Our products are manufactured using advanced and often new technology and must meet stringent quality requirements. Products manufactured using advanced and new technology such as ours may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced. For example, our TFT-LCD panels may contain defects that are not detected until after they are shipped or are installed because we cannot test for all possible scenarios. 8 Table of Contents These defects could cause us to incur significant re-designing costs, divert the attention of our technology personnel from product development efforts and significantly affect our customer relations and business reputation. If we deliver TFT-LCD panels with errors or defects, or if there is a perception that our TFT-LCD panels contain errors or defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed. Future product failures could cause us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products. Furthermore, widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. We sell our products to a select group of key customers who may no longer rely on us as a strategic supplier of TFT-LCD products, and any significant decrease in their order levels will negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our sales is attributable to a limited group of end-brand customers and their designated system integrators. Sales attributed to our end-brand customers are for their end-brand products and do not include sales to these customers for their system integration activities for other end-brand products, if any. Our top ten end-brand customers, including our two principal shareholders, together accounted for 78.8% of our sales in 2003, 77.4% in 2004 and 73.0% in 2005. Our top three end-brand customers together accounted for 41.1% of our sales in 2003, 42.9% in 2004 and 40.1% in 2005. In 2005, three end-brand customers, LG Electronics (excluding its purchases made as a system integrator), Dell and Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V. (“Philips Electronics”), each contributed to 10% or more of our sales. We benefit from the strong collaborative relationships we maintain with our end-brand customers by participating in the development of their products and gaining insights about levels of future demand for our products and other industry trends. Customers look to us for a dependable supply of quality products, even during downturns in the industry, and we benefit from the brand recognition of our customers’ end products. The loss of these end-brand customers, as a result of customers entering into strategic supplier arrangements with our competitors or otherwise, would thus result not only in reduced sales, but also in the loss of these benefits. We cannot provide assurance that these customers will continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods, or at all. Any material deterioration in the financial condition of our key end-brand customers, their system integrators or our affiliated trading company will have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our top ten end-brand customers accounted for 78.8% of our sales in 2003, 77.4% in 2004 and 73.0% in 2005, on an aggregate basis. Although we negotiate directly with our end-brand customers concerning the price and quantity of the sales, we typically invoice their designated system integrators. In addition, a portion of our sales to end-brand customers and their system integrators located in certain regions are sold through our affiliated trading company, LG International Corp. and its subsidiaries. As a result of our significant dependence on a concentrated group of end-brand customers and their designated system integrators, as well as the sales we make to our affiliated trading company and its subsidiaries, we are exposed to credit risks associated with these entities. Changes at our end-brand customers could cause sales of our products to decline. Mergers, acquisitions, divestments or consolidations involving our end-brand customers can present risks to our business, as management at the new entity may change the way they do business, including their transactions with us, or may decide not to use us as one of their suppliers of TFT-LCD products. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that a combined entity resulting from a merger, acquisition or consolidation will continue to purchase TFT-LCD panels from us at the same level as each entity purchased in the aggregate when they were separate companies or that a divested company will purchase panels from us at all. 9 Table of Contents Our results of operations depend on our ability to keep pace with changes in technology. Advances in technology typically lead to rapid declines in sales volumes for products made with older technologies and may lead to these products becoming less competitive in the marketplace, or even obsolete. As a result, we will likely be required to make significant expenditures to develop or acquire new process and product technologies. Also, our ability to manufacture our products by utilizing advanced process technologies to increase production yields at low production cost will be critical to our sustained competitiveness. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to successfully develop new products through our research and development efforts or through obtaining technology licenses, or that we will keep pace with technological changes in the marketplace. Our revenues depend on continuing demand for notebook computers, desktop monitors, televisions and other application products with TFT-LCD panels. Our sales may not grow at the rate we expect if consumers do not purchase these products. Currently, our total sales are derived principally from customers using our products in notebook computers, desktop monitors, televisions and other application products with display devices. In particular, a substantial percentage of our sales is derived from end-brand customers, or their designated system integrators, who use our TFT-LCD panels in their desktop monitors, which accounted for 57.7% , 56.0% and 47.0% of our total sales based on revenue in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. A substantial portion of our sales is also derived from end-brand customers, or their designated system integrators, who use our panels in their notebook computers, which accounted for 28.5%, 25.5% and 21.0% of our total sales based on revenue in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. A significant portion of our sales is also increasingly derived from end-brand customers, or their designated system integrators, who use our panels in their televisions, which accounted for 11.2%, 14.0% and 27.8% of our total sales based on revenue in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. We will continue to be dependent on the personal computer industry as well as growth in the television industry for a significant portion of our sales, and any downturn in the personal computer and television industry may result in reduced demand for our products, lower average selling prices and/or reduced margins. In addition, we anticipate that there will be increasing migration from conventional cathode ray tube, or CRT, televisions to TFT-LCD televisions. We have installed, and we expect to continue to install, capacity in anticipation of increased television demand generated by this trend. However, we may be unable to successfully execute our strategy or sustain our growth and profitability if this migration to TFT-LCD televisions does not take place at the anticipated time, or at all. Moreover, we can offer no assurance that threats from competing technologies will not significantly affect and alter our strategy for and competitive position in the television market. If our current strategy to address the expected growth in the television market, in part by increasing our production capacity, fails, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. The introduction of alternative display panel technologies, including those currently under development by our competitors and us, may erode future sales of TFT-LCD panels, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. New display technologies being developed by other panel makers, such as organic light emitting diode, or OLED, which is a technology that we are also developing, may gain wider market acceptance than TFT-LCD technology for use in certain products, such as mobile phones. In addition, alternative display technologies, such as plasma display panel, or PDP, may gain wider market acceptance than TFT-LCD technology for use in certain products, such as in televisions, which generally command higher prices due to their larger panel sizes. If consumers do not purchase products utilizing TFT-LCD panels as we expect, or if TFT-LCD technology itself is rendered obsolete, this would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations to the extent we cannot offset such loss in demand for TFT-LCD products by selling products using other display technologies. 10 Table of Contents We will have significant capital requirements in connection with our business strategy and if capital resources are not available we may not be able to implement our strategy and future plans. In connection with our strategy to expand the diversity and capacity of our TFT-LCD production, we estimate that we will incur significant expenditures for the expansion of existing production lines, construction of new facilities and strategic investments, such as the development of our Paju Display Cluster and construction of a new module production plant in Wroclaw, Poland. In Paju, we built our seventh fabrication facility, or P7, in 2005. We commenced mass production at P7 in January 2006. By the second quarter of 2006, we expect that P7 will reach a production capacity of 45,000 glass sheets per month. By the end of 2006, P7 is expected to reach its initial design capacity of 90,000 input sheets per month. We currently estimate that the construction and build-out of P7, at a capacity of 90,000 sheets per month, will cost approximately (Won)5.3 trillion in total. Our total capital expenditure for 2005 was approximately (Won)4.4 trillion (US$4.4 billion), of which approximately (Won)3.2 trillion was attributable to capital expenditure for P7. We expect our capital expenditures for P7 to be approximately (Won)1.8 trillion in 2006. In addition, we are currently in the preliminary stage of constructing our eighth fabrication facility, or P8, in our Paju Display Cluster. Our estimated total capital expenditure for P8 remains undecided as we continue to evaluate appropriate production capacity targets for P8. We expect P8’s initial production capacity will depend on future growth trends in the TFT-LCD panel market. We also broke ground on the new module production plant in Wroclaw, Poland in June 2006. We expect production at the Polish plant to commence in the first half of 2007 at an initial production capacity of 3 million modules per year. We plan to invest a total of €429 million in the plant by 2011, at which time it is scheduled to reach its design capacity of 11 million units per year. We are currently expanding our module production plants in Nanjing, China. In May 2006, we also entered into an investment agreement with the Guangzhou Development District Administrative Committee to construct a module production plant in Guangzhou, a city in southern China. We estimate our total capital expenditures will be approximately (Won)4.2 trillion in 2006. These capital expenditures will be made well in advance of any additional sales that will be generated from these expenditures. However, in the event of adverse market conditions, or if our actual expenditures far exceed our planned expenditures, our external financing activities combined with our internal sources of liquidity may not be sufficient to effect our current and future operational plans, and we may decide not to expand the capacity of certain of our facilities, including P7, or to continue construction of P8 and the Polish plant. The failure to obtain sufficient financing on commercially reasonable terms to complete our expansion plans could delay or derail our ability to pursue our business strategy, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our manufacturing processes are complex and periodic improvements to increase efficiency can expose us to potential disruptions in operations. The manufacturing process for TFT-LCD products is highly complex, requiring sophisticated and costly equipment that is periodically modified and updated to improve manufacturing yields and product performance, and reduce unit manufacturing costs. These updates expose us to the risk that from time to time production difficulties will arise that could cause delivery delays, reduced output or both. We cannot provide assurance that we will not experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable output, product delivery delays or both as a result of, among other factors, construction delays, difficulties in upgrading or modifying existing production lines or ramping up new plants, difficulties in changing manufacturing line technologies or delays in equipment deliveries, any of which could constrain our capacity and adversely affect our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully execute our expansion strategy or manage and sustain our growth on a timely basis, if at all, and, as a result, our business may be harmed. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, rapid growth in the scope and complexity of our operations. For example, we expanded our capacity by commencing mass production at our third fabrication facility, P3, in July 2000, our fourth fabrication facility, P4, in March 2002, our fifth fabrication facility, P5, in May 2003 and at our sixth fabrication facility, P6, in August 2004. We also commenced production at a new module assembly facility in Nanjing, China, in May 2003. In addition, we are currently expanding existing production lines, including expansion of P7’s production capacity, and constructing new facilities, including P8 in Paju and a new module production plant in Wroclaw, Poland and a module production plant in Nanjing, China. In May 2006, we also entered into an investment agreement with the Guangzhou Development District Administrative Committee to construct a module production plant in Guangzhou, a city in southern China. See “—We will have significant capital requirements in connection with our business strategy and if capital resources are not available we may not be able to implement our strategy and future plans” above. This sustained growth may strain our managerial, financial, manufacturing and other resources. We may experience manufacturing difficulties in starting new production lines, upgrading existing facilities or ramping up new plants, including P7 and P8, which represents a new and relatively less proven glass size and equipment generation for the industry, as a result of cost overruns, construction delays or shortages of, or quality problems with, materials, labor or equipment, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues. In addition, failure to keep up with our competitors in future investments in manufacturing capacity would impair our ability to effectively compete within the TFT-LCD industry. Failure to obtain intended economic benefits from expansion projects could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under Korean law, the construction of factories exceeding a certain size is prohibited in designated areas around Seoul, such as Paju. We have been able to construct the facilities in our Paju complex pursuant to an exemption available to companies whose “foreign equity interest” equals or exceeds 30%. Foreign equity interest includes any equity invested by a foreigner pursuant to the Foreign Investment Promotion Law, and Philips Electronics’ equity interest in us qualifies for this purpose. If the aggregate equity interest held by Philips Electronics or other qualifying foreign investors were to fall below 30% and the relevant requirements for the exemption are not relaxed, we would no longer be eligible for this exemption. This may, in turn, have a material adverse affect on our ability to construct additional facilities in Paju. If we cannot maintain high capacity utilization rates, our profitability will be adversely affected. The production of TFT-LCD panels entails high fixed costs resulting from considerable expenditures for the construction of complex fabrication and assembly facilities and the purchase of costly equipment. We aim to maintain high capacity utilization rates so that we can allocate these fixed costs over a greater number of panels produced and realize higher gross margins. However, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to sustain our capacity utilization rates in the future. We depend on a limited number of third party suppliers for key raw materials, components and manufacturing equipment, and any disruption in their supply will negatively affect our business. Our production operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of quality raw materials and components on a timely basis. As a result, it is important for us to control our component and raw material costs and reduce the effects of fluctuations in price and availability. In general, we source most of our raw materials as well as key components of TFT-LCD products such as backlight units, driver integrated circuits and polarizers, from two or three suppliers for each key component. We may experience shortages in the supply of these and other components or raw materials as a result of, among other things, anticipated capacity expansion in the TFT-LCD industry. Our results of operations would be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain adequate supplies of high quality raw materials or components in a timely manner or make alternative arrangements for such supplies, 12 Table of Contents or if there were significant increases in the costs of raw materials or components that we could not pass on to our customers. In addition, we have purchased, and expect to purchase, a substantial portion of our equipment from a limited number of qualified foreign and local suppliers. From time to time, increased demand for new equipment may cause lead times to extend beyond those normally required by the equipment vendors. The unavailability of equipment, delays in the delivery of equipment, or the delivery of equipment that does not meet our specifications, could delay implementation of our expansion plans and impair our ability to meet customer orders. This could result in a loss of revenues and cause financial stress on our operations. Purchase orders from our customers, which are placed generally one month in advance of delivery, vary in volume from period to period, and we operate with a modest inventory, which may make it difficult for us to efficiently allocate capacity on a timely basis in response to changes in demand. Our major customers and their designated system integrators provide us with three- to six-month rolling forecasts of their product requirements. However, firm orders are not placed until one month before delivery when negotiations on purchase prices are also finalized. Firm orders may be less than anticipated based on these three- to six-month forecasts. Due to the cyclicality of the TFT-LCD industry, purchase order levels from our customers have varied from period to period. Although we typically operate with a two- to four-week inventory, it may be difficult for us to adjust production costs or to allocate production capacity in a timely manner to compensate for any such volatility in order volumes. Our inability to respond quickly to changes in overall demand for TFT-LCD products as well as changes in product mix and specifications may result in lost revenues, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We may experience losses on inventories. Frequent new product introductions in the computer and consumer electronics industries can result in a decline in the average selling prices of our TFT-LCD panels and the obsolescence of our existing TFT-LCD panel inventory. This can result in a decrease in the stated value of our TFT-LCD panel inventory, which we value at the lower of cost or market value. We manage our inventory based on our customers’ and our own forecasts. Although adjustments are regularly made based on market conditions, we typically deliver our goods to the customers one month after a firm order has been placed. While we maintain open channels of communication with our major customers to avoid unexpected decreases in firm orders or subsequent changes to placed orders, and try to minimize our inventory levels, such actions by our customers may have an adverse effect on our inventory management. We need to observe certain financial and other covenants under the terms of our debt instruments, the failure to comply with which would put us in default under those instruments. We have issued floating rate notes and debentures which contain financial and other covenants with which we are required to comply on an annual and semi-annual basis. The financial covenants include debt-to-equity ratios, debt-coverage ratios, interest-coverage ratios and total debt limits. The documentation for such debt also contains negative pledges as well as cross-default and cross-acceleration clauses, which give related creditors the right to accelerate the amounts due under such debt if an event of default or acceleration has occurred with respect to our existing or future indebtedness, or if any material part of our indebtedness or indebtedness of our subsidiaries is capable of being declared payable before the stated maturity date. In addition, such covenants restrict our ability to raise future debt financing. If we breach our financial or other covenants, our financial condition will be adversely affected to the extent we are not able to cure such breaches or repay the relevant debt. 13 Table of Contents Our results of operations are subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Our sales and purchases of raw materials and expenditures on capital equipment are denominated mainly in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen and Korean Won, and, in the case of our sales, also in Euros. In 2005, 90.4% of our sales were denominated in U.S. dollars, 4.3% in Euros, 3.6% in Japanese yen and 1.5% in Korean Won. During the same period, 40.6% of our purchases of raw materials were denominated in U.S. dollars, 36.7% in Japanese yen and 22.5% in Korean Won. In addition, 5.6%, 16.8% and 76.2% of our equipment purchases and construction costs, which represented almost all of our total capital expenditures in 2005, were denominated in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen and Korean Won, respectively. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates, in particular between the U.S. dollar and the Korean Won, affect our gross profit and pre-tax income. In general, an appreciation in the Korean Won against the U.S. dollar has a net negative impact on such results, although it causes a foreign currency translation gain on our foreign-currency debt and currency forward contracts. Although the impact of exchange rate fluctuations has in the past been partially mitigated by the natural offset of our foreign currency receivables with our payables, our foreign-currency debt and our use of foreign exchange forward contracts, we cannot provide assurance that these offsets and hedges will reduce the overall impact of any exchange rate fluctuations in the future. We will lose a portion of the income tax exemption currently available to us under the foreign direct investment laws of Korea if Philips Electronics reduces its ownership in us. Philips Electronics’ investment in us upon the formation of the joint venture was characterized as a foreign direct investment under the Foreign Investment Promotion Act of Korea. Accordingly, we are entitled to an exemption from income taxes on income generated from our TFT-LCD business pursuant to the Special Tax Treatment Control Law of Korea in an amount proportional to the percentage of foreign direct equity investment in us for the first seven taxable years following the registration of such investment, which for us was in August 1999, and at one-half of that percentage for the subsequent three taxable years. In 2005, we received a tax benefit of (Won)35.1 billion (US$34.7 million), or 8.7% of income before income taxes, as a result of Philips Electronics’ 41.33% weighted average ownership in us in 2005. Until 2008, we will lose 0.137% of the tax exemption benefit in respect of income generated from our TFT-LCD business for each 1% reduction in Philips Electronics’ ownership in us, assuming that the income tax rate applicable to us is the same as that in 2005. After 2008, we will no longer be eligible to receive this income tax exemption. Losses of portions of this tax exemption could negatively affect our results of operations. Our business relies on patent rights and our patent rights may be narrowed in scope or found to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable. Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to obtain and enforce our patent rights both in Korea and worldwide. The coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before a patent is issued, either in Korea or abroad. Consequently, we cannot provide assurance that any of our pending or future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents. Patents issued to us may be subjected to further proceedings limiting their scope and may not provide significant proprietary protection or competitive advantage. Our patents also may be challenged, circumvented, invalidated or deemed unenforceable. In addition, because patent applications in certain countries generally are not published until more than 18 months after they are first filed, because we currently monitor patent applications filed only by other parties in Korea, Japan and the United States, and because publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were, or any of our licensors was, the first creator of inventions covered by pending patent applications, that we or any of our licensors will be entitled to any rights in purported inventions claimed in pending or future patent applications, or that we were, or any of our licensors was, the first to file patent applications on such inventions. 14 Table of Contents Furthermore, pending patent applications or patents already issued to us or our licensors may become subject to dispute, and any dispute could be resolved against us. For example, we may become involved in re-examination, reissue or interference proceedings and the result of these proceedings could be the invalidation or substantial narrowing of our patent claims. We also could be subject to court proceedings that could find our patents invalid or unenforceable or could substantially narrow the scope of our patent claims. In addition, depending on the jurisdiction, statutory differences in patentable subject matter may limit the protection we can obtain on some of our inventions. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could impair our competitiveness and harm our business and future prospects. We believe that developing new products and technologies that can be differentiated from those of our competitors is critical to the success of our business. We take active measures to obtain international protection of our intellectual property by obtaining patents and undertaking monitoring activities in our major markets. However, we cannot assure you that the measures we are taking will effectively deter competitors from improper use of our proprietary technologies. Our competitors may misappropriate our intellectual property, disputes as to ownership of intellectual property may arise and our intellectual property may otherwise become known or independently developed by our competitors. On August 29, 2002, we filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Central District of California against Chunghwa Picture Tubes, Tatung Company and Tatung Co. of America, Inc. We believe that these companies have infringed on six of our United States patents relating to liquid crystal displays and the manufacturing processes for thin-film transistors and liquid crystal displays by selling TFT-LCD products into the United States covered by these patents. We are seeking, among other things, treble damages for past infringement of these patents and for an injunction against future infringement. The trial is scheduled to begin on October 3, 2006. We also filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Central District of California against customers of Chunghwa Picture Tubes, including ViewSonic Corp., Jean Co., Lite-On Technology Corp., Lite-On Technology International, Inc., TPV Technology and Invision Peripheral Inc. On May 24, 2004, we sought declaratory relief in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts to determine the inventorship of four of these patents. The case has been dismissed, and the inventorship issue is to be decided in the pending lawsuit before the Central District of California. On June 21, 2004, Chunghwa Picture Tubes filed a counter-claim against us in the United States District Court for the Central District of California for alleged infringement of Chunghwa Picture Tubes’ intellectual property and violation of U.S. antitrust laws. On August 3, 2004, we demanded arbitration of the counter-claims filed by Chunghwa Picture Tubes. The arbitration proceedings are currently in progress before the American Arbitration Association. On May 27, 2004, we filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Tatung Co. and ViewSonic Corp. claiming patent infringement on two of our United States patents relating to rear mountable liquid crystal display devices. We are seeking damages for past infringement and an injunction against future infringement. We also filed a parallel complaint with the Patents County Court in the United Kingdom claiming infringement on one of our U.K. patents relating to the same technology. Tatung Co. is a major shareholder in Chunghwa Picture Tubes. The Patents County Court ruled in favor of the defendants, and we appealed the ruling. The case is currently under review by the appellate court. On January 10, 2005, Chunghwa Picture Tubes filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Central District of California against LG Electronics and us for alleged infringement of one of its U.S. patents relating to flat panel display mounting systems. On April 25, 2005, we filed our answer to Chunghwa Picture Tubes’ infringement claim, together with a counter-claim in the United States District Court for the Central District of California for the correction of the legal title of the subject patent. The case is currently in the discovery phase. 15 Table of Contents On May 13, 2005, we filed a separate complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Chunghwa Picture Tubes, Tatung Company, Tatung Co. of America and ViewSonic Corporation claiming infringement of our patents relating to the design and manufacture of liquid crystal display modules. We are seeking, among other things, monetary damages for past infringement and an injunction against future infringement. Any failure to protect our intellectual property could impair our competitiveness and harm our business and future prospects. Our rapid introduction of new technologies and products may increase the likelihood that third parties will assert claims that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights. Although we take and will continue to take steps to ensure that our new products do not infringe upon third party rights, the rapid technological changes that characterize our industry require that we quickly implement new processes and components with respect to our products. Often with respect to recently developed processes and components, a degree of uncertainty exists as to who may rightfully claim ownership rights in such processes and components. Uncertainty of this type increases the risk that claims alleging that such components or processes infringe upon third party rights may be brought against us. If our products or manufacturing processes are found to infringe upon third party rights, we may be subject to significant liabilities and be required to change our manufacturing processes or be prohibited from manufacturing certain products, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We may be required to defend against charges of infringement of patent or other proprietary rights of third parties. Although patent and other intellectual property disputes in our industry have often been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, such defense could require us to incur substantial expense and to divert significant resources of our technical and management personnel, and could result in our loss of rights to develop or make certain products or require us to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that the necessary licenses would be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling certain of our products. Any such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversions of our resources, either of which could adversely affect our business. We rely on technology provided by third parties and our business will suffer if we are unable to renew our licensing arrangements with them. From time to time, we have obtained licenses for patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to process and device technologies used in the production of our display panels. We have entered into key licensing arrangements with third parties, for which we have made, and continue to make, periodic license fee payments. In addition, we also have cross-license agreements with certain other third parties. These agreements terminate upon the expiration of the respective terms of the patents. If we are unable to renew our technology licensing arrangements on acceptable terms, we may lose the legal protection to use certain of the processes we employ to manufacture our products and be prohibited from using those processes, which may prevent us from manufacturing and selling certain of our products, including our key products. In addition, we could be at a disadvantage if our competitors obtain licenses for protected technologies on more favorable terms than we do. In the future, we may also need to obtain additional patent licenses for new or existing technologies. We cannot provide assurance that these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms or at all, and if not, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents We rely upon trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary know-how to maintain our competitive position in the TFT-LCD industry and any loss of our rights to, or unauthorized disclosure of, our trade secrets or other unpatented proprietary know-how could negatively affect our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and information, as well as continuing technological innovation in our business. The information we rely upon includes price forecasts, core technology and key customer information. We enter into confidentiality agreements with each of our employees and consultants upon the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship. These agreements generally provide that all inventions, ideas, discoveries, improvements and copyrightable material made or conceived by the individual arising out of the employment or consulting relationship and all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the term of the relationship is our exclusive property. We cannot assure the enforceability of these types of agreements, or that they will not be breached. We also cannot be certain that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. The disclosure of our trade secrets or other know-how as a result of such a breach could adversely affect our business. Also, our competitors may come to know about or determine our trade secrets and other proprietary information through a variety of methods. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of our confidentiality agreements, and there can be no assurance that any such disputes would be resolved in our favor. Further, others may acquire or independently develop similar technology, or if patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain information pertinent to such research as proprietary technology or trade secrets and that could have an adverse effect on our competitive position within the TFT-LCD industry. We rely on key researchers and engineers, senior management and production facility operators, and the loss of the services of any such personnel or the inability to attract and retain them may negatively affect our business. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our research and development and engineering personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified researchers and engineers, especially during periods of rapid growth. In particular, our focus on leading the market in introducing new products and advanced manufacturing processes has meant that we must aggressively recruit engineers with expertise in cutting-edge technologies. In addition, as a joint venture between LG Electronics and Philips Electronics, we have in the past relied on our affiliation with LG Electronics and Philips Electronics to recruit and retain important research and development personnel. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to realize these advantages if our affiliation with LG Electronics and Philips Electronics is significantly reduced in the future. We also depend on the services of experienced key senior management, and if we lose their services, it would be difficult to find and integrate replacement personnel in a timely manner, or at all. We also employ highly skilled line operators at our various production facilities. The loss of the services of any of our key research and development and engineering personnel, senior management or skilled operators without adequate replacement, or the inability to attract new qualified personnel, would have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our two principal shareholders, LG Electronics and Philips Electronics, which together currently own approximately 70.8% of our voting stock, have significant influence over corporate decisions. LG Electronics and Philips Electronics together have control of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including electing certain of our directors, amending our articles of incorporation and approving changes of control that may impact you as a minority shareholder. The directors elected by these shareholders are 17 Table of Contents able to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue additional capital stock, implement stock repurchase programs and incur indebtedness. In addition, we engage in a variety of related party transactions with our two principal shareholders and their respective affiliates: • Purchases from LG Electronics and its affiliates – purchases of materials, equipment, components and services from LG Electronics and its affiliates, excluding LG International and its subsidiaries, amounted to 28.4%, 21.2% and 13.7% (excluding services purchased from GS Engineering & Construction which, as of January 2005, is no longer an affiliated company of the LG Group) of our total purchases of materials, equipment, components and services in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. • Sales to LG Electronics – sales to LG Electronics (including its overseas subsidiaries) on an invoiced basis, which include sales to LG Electronics as an end-brand customer and system integrator, including sales through Serveone (formerly LG MRO Co., Ltd.), amounted to 25.1%, 19.3% and 18.1% of our sales in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. • Sales to Philips Electronics and its affiliates – sales to Philips Electronics and its affiliates on an invoiced basis, which include sales to Philips Electronics as an end-brand customer and system integrator, amounted to 9.9%,14.5% and 13.1% of our sales in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. • Purchases from LG International – purchases of materials, equipment and components from LG International and its subsidiaries amounted to 17.5%, 22.4% and 16.7% of our total material, equipment and component purchases in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. • Sales to LG International – sales to LG International and its subsidiaries on an aggregate basis amounted to 10.0%, 5.5% and 7.4% of our sales in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. • Purchases from Philips Electronics – purchases of driver integrated circuits from Philips Electronics’ semiconductor division amounted to 0.8%, 0.6% and 0.6% of our total purchases of materials, equipment, components and services in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Pursuant to our articles of incorporation and the terms of a shareholders’ agreement entered into between LG Electronics and Philips Electronics in July 2004, we have a nine-member board of directors which is composed of two outside directors selected by each of LG Electronics and Philips Electronics, one outside director jointly selected by them and four non-outside directors. In March 2005, we established the Outside Director Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee which will nominate our future outside directors. The right to nominate the four non-outside directors of our board depends on the respective ownership interest in us of each of LG Electronics and Philips Electronics. The two shareholders have also agreed to a co-voting arrangement under which each party is obligated to vote in favor of the non-outside director candidates selected by the other party as well as the non-outside candidate jointly selected by the two shareholders. Subject to minimum shareholding requirements, LG Electronics and Philips Electronics are able to nominate our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, respectively, who as our two joint representative directors, must act in concert in order for their actions to bind us. See “Item 6A. Directors and Senior Management” for a description of the composition of our board and the joint representative director system under Korean law. As a result, persons with ties to LG Electronics and Philips Electronics may account for as many as four directors on our board and will continue to exert substantial influence over the operation of our business. The interests of LG Electronics and Philips Electronics, and the directors and officers nominated by them, may differ from or conflict with those of us or our other shareholders. When exercising their rights as our shareholders, either alone or in concert, LG Electronics and Philips Electronics may take into account not only our interests but also their interests and the interests of their affiliates or other joint venture companies in competing display businesses. For example, LG Electronics and Philips 18 Table of Contents Electronics merged their respective cathode ray tube businesses into a joint venture company named LG.Philips Displays in 2001. The interests of LG.Philips Displays and other display businesses of LG Electronics and Philips Electronics may at times conflict with ours since the growth of our business depends, in part, on successful competition with other display technologies. These conflicts may result in lost corporate opportunities for us, including opportunities to enter into lines of business that may overlap with those pursued by other display businesses of LG Electronics and Philips Electronics. Various other conflicts of interest between our two shareholders and us may arise in the future in a number of areas relating to our business and relationships, including potential acquisitions of businesses or properties, incurrence of indebtedness, financial commitments, sales and marketing functions, indemnity arrangements, service arrangements and the exercise by LG Electronics and Philips Electronics of control over our management and affairs. Our board is currently composed of directors and officers who have been selected by our two shareholders and certain of our directors continue to hold positions at LG Electronics or Philips Electronics. See “—Our two principal shareholders, LG Electronics and Philips Electronics, which together currently own approximately 70.8% of our voting stock, have, and will continue to have significant influence over corporate decisions” above and “Item 6A. Directors and Senior Management” for a description of the composition of our current board of directors. Labor unrest may disrupt our operations. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 68% of our total employees, including those of our subsidiaries, were union members, and production employees accounted for substantially all of these members. We have a collective bargaining arrangement with our labor union, which is negotiated once a year. If our relationship with our employees deteriorates and there is labor unrest resulting in a work stoppage or strike, our production facilities will not be able to continue operations and this will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to strict environmental regulations and we may be subject to fines or restrictions that could cause our operations to be interrupted. Our manufacturing processes generate chemical waste, waste water and other industrial waste at various stages in the manufacturing process, and we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of such chemical by-products and waste substances. We have installed various types of anti-pollution equipment, consistent with industry standards, for the treatment of chemical waste and equipment for the recycling of treated waste water at our various facilities. However, we cannot provide assurance that environmental claims will not be brought against us or that the local or national governments will not take steps toward adopting more stringent environmental standards. Any failure on our part to comply with any present or future environmental regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us, suspension of production or a cessation of operations. In addition, environmental regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant compliance expenses that may materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to our American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, or our Common Stock Future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market may depress our stock price and make it difficult for you to recover the full value of your investment in our common stock or our ADSs. If our current principal shareholders, LG Electronics and Philips Electronics, sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public principal market, or if there is a perception that these sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could decline. 19 Table of Contents Our public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by the laws governing Korean corporations. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders and members of our board of directors under Korean law may be different from those that apply to shareholders and directors of a U.S. corporation. For example, minority shareholder rights afforded under Korean law often require the minority shareholder to meet minimum shareholding requirements in order to exercise certain rights. In the case of public companies, a shareholder must own, individually or collectively with other shareholders, at least 0.01% of our common stock for at least six months in order to file a derivative suit on behalf of us. While the facts and circumstances of each case will differ, the duty of care required of a director under Korean law may not be the same as the fiduciary duty of a director of a U.S. corporation. Holders of our common stock or our ADSs may have more difficulty protecting their interests against actions of our management, members of our board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. You may be limited in your ability to deposit or withdraw the common stock underlying the ADSs, which may adversely affect the value of your investment. Under the terms of our deposit agreement, holders of common stock may deposit such common stock with the depositary’s custodian in Korea and obtain ADSs, and holders of ADSs may surrender ADSs to the depositary and receive common stock. However, to the extent that a deposit of common stock exceeds the difference between: • the aggregate number of common shares we have consented to allow to be deposited for the issuance of ADSs (including deposits in connection with offerings of ADSs and stock dividends or other distributions relating to ADSs); and • the number of shares of common stock on deposit with the custodian for the benefit of the depositary at the time of such proposed deposit, such common stock will not be accepted for deposit unless (1) our consent, subject to governmental authorization, with respect to such deposit has been obtained or (2) such consent is no longer required under Korean laws and regulations. Under the terms of the deposit agreement, no consent is required if the shares of common stock are obtained through a dividend, free distribution, rights offering or reclassification of such stock. The current limit on the number of shares that may be deposited into our ADR facility is 68,095,700 as of June 21, 2006. The number of shares issued or sold in any subsequent offering by us or our principal shareholders, subject to government authorization, raises the limit on the number of shares that may be deposited into the ADR facility, except to the extent such deposit is prohibited by applicable laws or violates our articles of incorporation, or we determine with the ADR depositary to limit the number of shares of common stock so offered that would be eligible for deposit under the deposit agreement in order to maintain liquidity for the shares in Korea as may be requested by the relevant Korean authorities. We might not consent to the deposit of any additional common stock. As a result, if a holder surrenders ADSs and withdraws common stock, it may not be able to deposit the common stock again to obtain ADSs. Holders of ADSs will not have preemptive rights in some circumstances. The Korean Commercial Code of 1962, as amended, and our articles of incorporation require us, with some exceptions, to offer shareholders the right to subscribe for new shares of our common stock in proportion to their existing shareholding ratio whenever new shares are issued, except under certain circumstances as provided in our articles of incorporation. Accordingly, if we issue new shares to non-shareholders based on such exception, a holder of our ADSs may experience dilution in its holdings. Furthermore, if we offer any right to subscribe for 20 Table of Contents additional shares of our common stock or any rights of any other nature to existing shareholders subject to their preemptive rights, the depositary, after consultation with us, may make the rights available to holders of our ADSs or use reasonable efforts to dispose of the rights on behalf of such holders and make the net proceeds available to such holders. The depositary, however, is not required to make available to holders any rights to purchase any additional shares of our common stock unless it deems that doing so is lawful and feasible and; • a registration statement filed by us under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is in effect with respect to those shares; or • the offering and sale of those shares is exempt from or is not subject to the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Other than our registration rights agreement with each of LG Electronics and Philips Electronics as described in “Item 7A. Major Stockholders,” we are under no obligation to file any registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, a holder of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in its holdings. If a registration statement is required for a holder of our ADSs to exercise preemptive rights but is not filed by us or is not declared effective, the holder will not be able to exercise its preemptive rights for additional ADSs and it will suffer dilution of its equity interest in us. If the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or feasible, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case the holder will receive no value for these rights. Holders of ADSs will not be able to exercise dissenter’s rights unless they have withdrawn the underlying shares of common stock and become our direct shareholders. In some limited circumstances, including the transfer of the whole or any significant part of our business and our merger or consolidation with another company, dissenting shareholders have the right to require us to purchase their shares under Korean law. A holder of ADSs will not be able to exercise dissenter’s rights unless such holder has withdrawn the underlying common stock and become our direct shareholder. Dividend payments and the amount you may realize upon a sale of our common stock or ADSs that you hold will be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Korean Won. Cash dividends, if any, in respect of the shares represented by our ADSs will be paid to the depositary in Korean Won and then converted by the depositary into U.S. dollars, subject to certain conditions. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Korean Won and the U.S. dollar will affect, among other things, the amounts a holder will receive from the depositary in respect of dividends, the U.S. dollar value of the proceeds that a holder would receive upon sale in Korea of the shares of our common stock obtained upon surrender of ADSs and the secondary market price of ADSs. Such fluctuations will also affect the U.S. dollar value of dividends and sales proceeds received by holders of our common stock. Risks Relating to Korea If economic conditions in Korea deteriorate, our current business and future growth could be materially and adversely affected. We are incorporated in Korea, and substantially all of our operations and assets are located in Korea. As a result, we are subject to political, economic, legal and regulatory risks specific to Korea. From early 1997 until 1999, Korea experienced a significant financial and economic downturn, from which it is widely believed the country has now recovered to a large extent. 21 Table of Contents The economic indicators in 2003, 2004 and 2005 have shown mixed signs of recovery and uncertainty, and future recovery or growth of the economy is subject to many factors beyond our control. Events related to the terrorist attacks in the United States that took place on September 11, 2001, recent developments in the Middle East, including the war in Iraq, higher oil prices, the general weakness of the global economy and the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, in Asia and other parts of the world have increased the uncertainty of global economic prospects in general and may continue to adversely affect the Korean economy for some time. Any future deterioration of the Korean and global economy could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Developments that could hurt Korea’s economy in the future include: • financial problems relating to chaebols (Korean conglomerates), or their suppliers, and their potential adverse impact on the Korean economy, including as a result of recent investigations relating to unlawful political contributions by chaebols; • failure or lack of progress in restructuring of chaebols, the financial industry, including credit card companies, and other large troubled companies; • loss of investor confidence arising from corporate accounting irregularities and corporate governance issues at certain chaebols; • a slowdown in consumer spending and the overall economy; • adverse changes or volatility in foreign currency reserve levels, commodity prices (including an increase in oil prices), exchange rates (including fluctuation of the U.S. dollar or Japanese yen or revaluation of the Chinese RMB), interest rates and stock markets; • deterioration of economic or market conditions in other emerging markets; • adverse developments in the economies of countries that are important export markets for Korea, such as the United States, Japan and China, or in emerging market economies in Asia or elsewhere that could result in a loss of confidence in the Korean economy; • the continued emergence of China, to the extent its benefits (such as increased exports to China) are outweighed by its costs (such as competition in export markets or for foreign investment and the relocation of the manufacturing base from Korea to China); • social and labor unrest; • a decrease in tax revenues and a substantial increase in the Korean government’s expenditures for unemployment compensation and other social programs that, together, would lead to an increased government budget deficit; • geo-political uncertainty and risk of further attacks by terrorist groups around the world; • the recurrence of SARS or avian flu in Asia and other parts of the world; • deterioration in economic or diplomatic relations between Korea and its trading partners or allies, including such deterioration resulting from trade disputes or disagreements in foreign policy; • political uncertainty or increasing strife among or within political parties in Korea; • hostilities involving oil producing countries in the Middle East and any material disruption in the supply of oil or increase in the price of oil resulting from those hostilities; and • an increase in the level of tensions or an outbreak of hostilities between North Korea and Korea and/or the United States. 22 Table of Contents Escalations in tensions with North Korea could have an adverse effect on us and the market value of our common stock. Relations between Korea and North Korea have been tense throughout Korea’s modern history. The level of tension between the two Koreas has fluctuated and may increase or change abruptly as a result of current and future events, including ongoing contacts at the highest levels of the governments of Korea and North Korea. In December 2002, North Korea removed the seals and surveillance equipment from its Yongbyon nuclear power plant and evicted inspectors from the United Nations International Atomic Energy Agency. In January 2003, North Korea renounced its obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. In August 2003, representatives of Korea, the United States, North Korea, China, Japan and Russia held multi-lateral talks in an effort to resolve issues relating to North Korea’s nuclear weapons program. While the talks concluded without resolution, participants in the August meeting indicated that further negotiations may take place in the future and, in February 2004, six-party talks resumed in Beijing, China. A third round of talks were held in June 2004 with an agreement to hold further talks in September, which were postponed. In February 2005, North Korea announced that it possesses nuclear weapons and pulled out of six-party disarmament talks. A two-phased fourth round of six-party talks was held in Beijing, China during the summer and fall of 2005. In September 2005, North Korea agreed in principle to end its nuclear weapons program and the six participating nations signed a draft preliminary accord pursuant to which North Korea agreed to dismantle its existing nuclear weapons, abandon efforts to produce new weapons and readmit international inspectors to its nuclear facilities. Representatives of the six nations reconvened in Beijing in November 2005 for the first phase of the fifth-round of six-party talks, which concluded without further progress being made with respect to the implementation of the draft preliminary accord. In addition, in October 2004, the United States and Korea agreed to a three-phase withdrawal of approximately one-third of the 37,500 troops stationed in Korea by the end of 2008. By the end of 2004, 5,000 U.S. troops departed Korea in the first phase of such withdrawal. According to the plan’s second phase, the United States would remove 5,000 troops by the end of 2006. In the final phase, another 2,500 U.S. troops would be redeployed by the end of 2008. Any further increase in tensions, which may occur, for example, if high-level contacts break down or military hostilities occur, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and the market value of our common stock. Financial instability in other countries, particularly emerging market countries in Asia, could adversely impact the Korean economy and our business and cause the price of our securities to go down. The Korean market and the Korean economy are influenced by economic and market conditions in other countries, particularly emerging market countries in Asia. Financial turmoil in Asia, Russia and elsewhere in the world in recent years has adversely affected the Korean economy. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to developments in one country can have adverse effects on the securities of companies in other countries, including Korea. A loss of investor confidence in the financial systems of emerging and other markets may cause increased volatility in Korean financial markets. We cannot be certain that financial events of the type that occurred in emerging markets in Asia in 1997 and 1998 will not happen again or will not have an adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. 23 Table of Contents 