Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—We may not use our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term investments effectively.” On May 16, 2011, we received net proceeds of approximately US$125.6 million from the issuance and sale of our ordinary shares and high-vote ordinary shares to TCH Sapphire and the issuance and sale of our ordinary shares to Expedia Asia Pacific. Accordingly, as of May 31, 2011, we held total cash and cash equivalents of RMB1,086.0 million (US$167.6 million), restricted cash of RMB61.4 million (US$9.5 million) and short-term investments of RMB691.6 million (US$106.8 million). The increase in our total cash may lead to larger fluctuations in our interest income and exchange rate risk in future years, than the discussion above which is with respect to our cash balance as of December 31, 2010. For additional information on the May 16, 2011 transactions, see “Item 7: Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions—May 2011 Share Issuance and Sale to TCH Sapphire and Expedia Asia Pacific.” RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS For a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements, see “Note (2) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—(aa) Recently issued accounting pronouncements” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this annual report. - 43 - Table of Contents Item 6: Directors, Senior Management and Employees. Directors and Senior Management Our board of directors currently consists of eleven directors. Pursuant to our articles of association, the members of our board of directors were elected by our shareholders or appointed by our board of directors. Our shareholders, including holders of ordinary shares and high-vote ordinary shares, are entitled to vote together as a single class on all matters submitted to shareholder vote, including the election of our board of directors. Each ordinary share is entitled to one vote, and each high-vote ordinary share is entitled to 15 votes. As of May 31, 2011, Expedia, through its indirect subsidiary, Expedia Asia Pacific, is the beneficial owner of 28,550,704 high-vote ordinary shares and 8,952,839 ordinary shares, and thus controls approximately 81% of the voting power of all shares of our voting stock. Thus, Expedia has the ability to control the composition of our board of directors, including the ability to nominate new or replacement directors, to vote the Expedia Asia Pacific shares to elect such nominees, and to remove members of our board of directors. See “Item 7: Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Major Shareholders.” Each member of our board of directors is elected or appointed by our board of directors to hold office until the next annual general meeting of shareholders, until such director’s successor is elected and duly qualified, or until such director’s earlier bankruptcy, incapacity, resignation or removal. There are no family relationships among any of our directors or executive officers. Our executive officers report to our CEO and serve at the discretion of our board of directors. The names of our directors and executive officers, their ages and principal positions with eLong are as follows: Name Age Position Guangfu Cui 42 Chief Executive Officer & Director Mike Doyle 41 Chief Financial Officer Jason Xie 34 Chief Operating Officer Gary Ding 37 Vice President of Operations Sami Farhad 38 Vice President & General Counsel James Li 37 Vice President of Sales Jack Wang 37 Vice President of Partner Service Group Wei Xue 48 Vice President of Air Business Hongyong Zhan 40 Vice President & Chief Technology Officer Henrik Kjellberg(1)(3) 40 Chairman of the Board of Directors Fernando Gil de Bernabé(2) 46 Director Thomas Gurnee(2)(3) 60 Director Dara Khosrowshahi(1) 42 Director Dan Lynn(1) 30 Director Jens Parkitny(1) (3) 45 Director Cyril Ranque(1) 41 Director Michael Scown(2) 52 Director Johan Svanstrom(1) 39 Director Xiaoguang Wu(4) 35 Director (1) Nominated by Expedia Asia Pacific. Mr. Kjellberg is the Chairman of the Board of Directors. (2) Member of the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Mr. Gurnee is the Chairman of the Audit Committee. (3) Member of the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors. Mr. Kjellberg is Chairman of the Compensation Committee. (4) Nominated by TCH Sapphire, a subsidiary of Tencent. - 44 - Table of Contents Biographical Information Executive Officers Guangfu Cui, Chief Executive Officer and Director Guangfu Cui has served as our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) since October 8, 2007, and as a member of our Board of Directors since February 15, 2011. Prior to joining eLong, Mr. Cui was the Managing Director for FedEx Kinko’s China. During his four years at FedEx Kinko’s, Mr. Cui positioned the company as a market leader in the digital printing industry in China, with 16 centers and 300 employees. Prior to FedEx Kinko’s, Mr. Cui worked for Procter & Gamble for over 12 years, including two and half years working in the United States. He was instrumental in building Procter & Gamble’s China distribution network and retail coverage systems. Mr. Cui holds an MBA from Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, and a BA in Law from Peking University. Mike Doyle, Chief Financial Officer Mike Doyle has served as our Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) since April 1, 2009, and was a member of our board of directors from December 2004 to May 2009. Prior to becoming our CFO, Mr. Doyle was the Chief Financial Officer of Expedia Asia Pacific, a division of Expedia, based in Hong Kong. Previously, Mr. Doyle also served as corporate development director responsible for Expedia’s investment activities in Asia. Prior to Expedia, Mr. Doyle worked as Chief Financial Officer of Teledesic, a Seattle-based broadband communications company founded by Craig McCaw and Bill Gates. Mr. Doyle started his career as an investment banker at Morgan Stanley & Company in New York and Singapore. While in Singapore, he also worked for the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation, making private equity investments in Southeast Asia. Mr. Doyle holds a BA in Finance from Southern Methodist University and an MBA from Harvard Business School. Jason Xie, Chief Operating Officer Jason Xie has served as our Chief Operating Officer since May 15, 2011, and prior to this was our Vice President of Web & Business Development since January 1, 2008. Prior to joining eLong, Mr. Xie had several years of sales and management experience in multinational companies including Procter & Gamble, Citibank and FedEx. Mr. Xie received a MBA from China Europe International Business School and a BA in Economics from Nanjing University. Gary Ding, Vice President of Operations Gary Ding has served as our Vice President of Operations since May 1, 2011. Since joining eLong in April 2008, Mr. Ding has held a number of leadership positions, including Senior Director of Operations Support and Air Operations, and Director of After Sales and Support. Prior to joining eLong, Mr. Ding was Director of FedEx Kinko’s (China) and has experience in operation and supply chain management. Mr. Ding holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Engineering from Inner Mongolia University of Technology, and is currently completing an EMBA at Peking University. Sami Farhad, Vice President & General Counsel Sami Farhad has served as our Vice President and General Counsel since June 1, 2008, and was appointed to the additional role of Vice President of Human Resources on October 20, 2008. Prior to joining eLong, Mr. Farhad was legal counsel to GE Healthcare China. Before joining GE, Mr. Farhad was an associate in the New York, Beijing and Hong Kong offices of Sullivan & Cromwell LLP. He was also previously a law clerk to Judge Jerry Buchmeyer of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas. Mr. Farhad holds a JD from Columbia University School of Law and a BA from Harvard University. He is a member of the State Bar of New York. James Li, Vice President of Sales James Li has served as our Vice President of Sales since January 1, 2008, and previously was our Senior Director of Sales. Mr. Li joined eLong as Senior Sales Director for the North Division in March 2007 and was later promoted to Vice President of Sales due to his leadership and contributions to eLong. Prior to joining eLong, Mr. Li served as a sales leader in multinational companies including Procter & Gamble, Motorola and PepsiCo, and has significant sales management experience. Mr. Li graduated from Harbin Institute of Technology with a BA in Marketing. - 45 - Table of Contents Jack Wang, Vice President of Partner Service Group Jack Wang has served as Vice President of our Partner Service Group since December 2007. Prior to joining eLong, Mr. Wang worked for Proctor & Gamble for almost 10 years. Mr. Wang has significant experience in customer business development and trade marketing. Mr. Wang holds a dual-concentration BA in fluid mechanics and journalism from Tsinghua University. Wei Xue, Vice President of Air Business Wei Xue has served as Vice President of our Air Business since January 1, 2010. Mr. Xue joined eLong as Senior Director of our Air Partner Service Group in September 2006 and manages our air systems, Air Partner Service Group and international air department. Mr. Xue has substantial experience in the air and travel industries where he has worked since 1987. Prior to joining eLong, Mr. Xue managed the air departments of companies including Mangocity, China Travel Service (Hong Kong) and Beijing Merchant’s International Transportation. Mr. Xue holds a MBA from Fordham University, an EMBA from Peking University and a Bachelor’s Degree in Foreign Languages from Peking University. Hongyong Zhan, Vice President & Chief Technology Officer. Hongyong Zhan has served as our CTO since January 1, 2011. Since joining eLong in November 2005, Mr. Zhan has held a number of senior IT leadership positions, including Senior Director of Hotel Platform, Senior Architect, and Director of Data Management Office. Prior to joining eLong, Mr. Zhan was CTO of PriceSmart China and formerly worked as IT Vice-General Manager of Yunan Huitong Information Technology and as a Lecturer at the Computer Science Center of Yunan Agricultural University. He holds a Master’s Degree in Computer Science from Fudan University and a Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science from Southwest China Normal University. Directors Henrik Kjellberg, Chairman of the Board of Directors Henrik Kjellberg has been Chairman of the Board of Directors since March 10, 2007, a member of our Board of Directors since October 2005, and was our Interim CEO for a portion of 2007. Mr. Kjellberg is also President of Expedia Affiliate Network (“EAN”), a division of Expedia. Prior to assuming his responsibilities at EAN, Mr. Kjellberg was President of Expedia Asia Pacific, and was also formerly Expedia’s Senior Vice President of international lodging and destination services as well as Vice President and Managing Director, Supply Europe. Prior to joining Expedia, Mr. Kjellberg worked for Procter & Gamble and Scandinavian Internet portal Spray. Mr. Kjellberg holds a Master’s of Science in economics from the Stockholm School of Economics. Fernando Gil de Bernabé, Director Fernando Gil de Bernabé has been a member of our Board of Directors and our Audit Committee since December 30, 2009. Mr. Gil de Bernabé was previously the Managing Director of the Internet Business Solutions Group for the telecom business of Cisco in Europe, and joined the company in 1999. Prior to Cisco, Mr. Gil de Bernabé was an equity partner for the TME and Strategy practices of Arthur D. Little, a management consultancy, and in 1994 was a founding member of its Global Technology Ventures office in Palo Alto. Before that he worked in two software startups in Barcelona, Spain. Mr. Gil de Bernabé holds an MBA and a certificate in Management of Technology from the Haas School of Business and the College of Engineering at the University of California Berkeley, and a Higher Telecom Engineering degree from the Polytechnic University of Catalonia, Spain. - 46 - Table of Contents Thomas Gurnee, Director Thomas Gurnee has served as a member of our Board of Directors and our Audit Committee since November 2, 2004. Mr. Gurnee is Chief Financial Officer of Xinyuan Real Estate (NYSE: Xin), a US-listed real estate company. Previously he was Chief Financial Officer of GEM Services, Inc., a privately held semiconductor manufacturer. His other prior positions include President and Chief Operating Officer of GlobiTech Inc. and Chief Financial Officer of Sohu.com Inc. Prior to joining Sohu, Mr. Gurnee held a number of senior positions with Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd., including Vice President for Business Development, President (North America), Chief Operating Officer (Singapore) and Chief Financial Officer (Singapore). Previously, Mr. Gurnee spent 13 years at Schlumberger Ltd. as finance director of various divisions in France, Singapore and the United States. From November 2000 until June 2006, Mr. Gurnee was a member of the Sohu Board of Directors. He is currently a member of the Board of Directors of Longtop Financial Technologies (NYSE: LFT) and Xinyuan Real Estate. Mr. Gurnee received a BA degree from Stanford University and an MBA degree from the University of Santa Clara. Dara Khosrowshahi, Director Dara Khosrowshahi has served as a member of our Board of Directors since June 10, 2011, and has served as a director and the Chief Executive Officer of Expedia, Inc., the world’s largest online travel company, since Expedia’s spin-off from IAC/InterActiveCorp in August 2005. Prior to the spin-off, Mr. Khosrowshahi served in a number of leadership capacities at IAC, including as Chief Executive Officer of IAC Travel, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of IAC, Executive Vice President of Operations and Strategic Planning of IAC, and President of USA Networks Interactive, a division of IAC. Mr. Khosrowshahi joined IAC in 1998 as Vice President of Strategic Planning. Prior to joining IAC, Mr. Khosrowshahi served as Vice President at Allen & Company LLC. Mr. Khosrowshahi holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Engineering from Brown University. Dan Lynn, Director Dan Lynn has served as a member of our Board of Directors since February 15, 2011, and is the Managing Director and Vice President APAC of Expedia. Mr. Lynn leads Expedia’s business in the Asia Pacific, including current business and expansion into new markets. Prior to his current role, Mr. Lynn held a variety of positions at Expedia, including Vice Present of Global Paid Search Marketing, Director of Strategy and Consumer Insights, and Business Development Manager. Before joining Expedia, Mr. Lynn worked in London as an Investment Analyst for Smedvig Capital, and also previously as an analyst for McKinsey & Company. He holds a BA in Economics and Management from Oxford University. Jens Parkitny, Director Jens Parkitny has been a member of our Board of Directors since May 13, 2009. Mr. Parkitny is Managing Director (Asia Pacific) of the Expedia Affiliate Network, responsible for all white label and co-branded affiliate partnerships in the Asia Pacific region. Prior to this role, Mr. Parkitny was Vice President & Managing Director of Expedia.com for Germany and Austria for two years, and previously held other senior roles at Expedia in Germany, including Manager of Product & Business Development, Site & Content Manager and Senior Producer (Travel). He also previously worked in journalism and publishing, among others as a deputy editor for the German publishing group Jaeger Verlag. Mr. Parkitny holds a degree in Business Administration, Travel and Transport Management from the Technical University of Rhineland-Palatinate. Cyril Ranque, Director Cyril Ranque has been a member of our Board of Directors since December 22, 2008. Mr. Ranque is Senior Vice President, Global Lodging of Expedia, overseeing Expedia’s relationships with hotel supply partners across the Americas and the EMEA regions. Previously, he managed Expedia’s relationships with airlines, lodging and rental car partners in the Asia Pacific as Vice President, Partner Services Group Asia Pacific. Prior to joining Expedia in 2006, Mr. Ranque was Vice President of Marketing & Distribution for Louvre Hotels, a leading European hotel group. He was also previously a Director in charge of the French Customer Relationship Management (CRM) Practice at AT Kearney, and a CRM consultant at Accenture. Prior to Accenture, Mr. Ranque was a financial analyst with Morgan Stanley in London, and also worked at LVMH in Tokyo. Mr. Ranque holds a Master’s degree from Essec Graduate School of Business in Paris. - 47 - Table of Contents Michael Scown, Director Michael Scown has been a member of our Board of Directors and our Audit Committee since December 2007. Mr. Scown is the Asia Managing Director, Treasury, for Intel Capital. From 1999 to 2006 he served as Intel Capital’s Asia Regional Counsel. Before joining Intel he practiced law as an associate and partner with Russin & Vecchi in the firm’s San Francisco and Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam offices and worked in hotel development as Asia Assistant Regional Counsel for Marriott International, Inc. Prior to commencing his legal practice, Mr. Scown served as a Foreign Service Officer with the U.S. Department of State. He holds a BA from U.C. Berkeley, a JD from the University of San Francisco School of Law and is a member of the State Bar of California. Johan Svanstrom, Director Johan Svanstrom has served as a member of our Board of Directors since February 2006. Mr. Svanstrom is Managing Director (Asia Pacific) of Hotels.com, a division of Expedia, in which role he is responsible for building the Hotels.com business across the Asia Pacific region. Prior to joining Expedia, Mr. Svanstrom was in charge of the Digital Innovations Group at McDonald’s Corporation for three years. Prior to that, Mr. Svanstrom was CEO of Freefund NV, a company providing online grant search capabilities for university students in four different European countries. From 1999 to 2002, Mr. Svanstrom served as Vice President of Business Development at Glocalnet AB, a voice-over-IP telecom company, which he helped take public and which is listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. Mr. Svanstrom holds a Master’s of Science in economics from the Stockholm School of Economics. Xiaoguang Wu, Director Xiaoguang Wu has served as a member of our Board of Directors since June 10, 2011. Mr. Wu is Senior Executive Vice President and President of Internet Services of Tencent. Mr. Wu joined Tencent in 1998, led the development and product planning for Tencent’s core product, the QQ IM client software and has served as the Project Manager for the research and development team of QQ, the General Manager for IM product and the General Manager for the Internet business division. Currently, Mr. Wu is in charge of the Company’s various Internet services including community, community value-added services and e-commerce. Mr. Wu has accumulated rich experience in Internet product research and development, design planning, operations and marketing. He received his Bachelor of Science Degree in Weather Dynamics from Nanjing University in 1996 and an EMBA from the China Europe International Business School (CEIBS) in 2008. Board Practices Between January 1, 2010 and May 31, 2011, we have not entered into any service contracts or other arrangements providing for benefits upon termination with our directors, provided, however, that generally any non-vested options or performance units granted to Mr. Gil de Bernabé, Mr. Gurnee or Mr. Scown (our current directors who are not employees of eLong, Expedia or Tencent, “non-employee directors”) shall vest in full in the event that Expedia effects a going private transaction of us and, provided further, that upon a termination during the one-year period following a change in control, such non-employee directors incur a termination other than by reason of death, disability or cause, the non-employee directors are entitled to an additional 12 months of vesting on their unvested options. In addition, we have entered into certain related party agreements with our former director, Justin Tang, which are described in “Item 7: Major Shareholders—Related Party Transactions—Agreements with Justin Tang.” - 48 - Table of Contents Committees of the Board of Directors Audit Committee Thomas Gurnee (who serves as chairman), Fernando Gil de Bernabé and Michael Scown are currently the members of our audit committee. Our board of directors has adopted a written audit committee charter pursuant to which the audit committee is responsible for the appointment of our independent public accountants and reports to our board of directors regarding the scope and results of our annual audits, compliance with our accounting and financial policies and management’s procedures and policies concerning the adequacy of our internal accounting controls. Audit committee pre-approval is required for all non-audit services to be performed by our independent auditors. For additional information on our Audit Committee, see “Item 16A: Audit Committee Financial Expert,” and “Item 16C: Principal Accountant Fees and Services.” Compensation Committee The compensation committee of our board of directors reviews and makes recommendations to our full board of directors regarding compensation policies and compensation to be provided to our executive officers and directors. In addition, the compensation committee approves bonus and stock compensation arrangements for all of our employees. Henrik Kjellberg (who serves as chairman), Thomas Gurnee and Jens Parkitny are currently the members of our compensation committee. Mr. Kjellberg and Mr. Parkitny were appointed by Expedia under an Investors Agreement with Expedia Asia Pacific and certain other shareholders dated July 23, 2004. Under the Investors Agreement, Expedia has the right to appoint two directors to the compensation committee, and the compensation committee does not have the authority to approve the issuance of stock options unless two directors nominated by Expedia are on the compensation committee. Duties of Directors Under Cayman Islands law, each of our directors has a duty of loyalty to act honestly, in good faith and with a view to the best interests of our company and for a proper purpose. Our directors also have a duty to exercise the skills that they actually possess and such care and diligence that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. Our directors must ensure compliance with our company’s memorandum of association and articles of association. A shareholder may have the right to seek damages on behalf of our company if a duty owed by our directors to our company is breached. Limitation on Liability and Other Indemnification Matters Cayman Islands law does not limit the extent to which a company’s articles of association may provide for indemnification of officers and directors, except to the extent any such provision may be held by the Cayman Islands courts to be contrary to public policy, such as to provide indemnification against civil fraud or the consequences of committing a crime. Our articles of association provide for indemnification of officers and directors for losses, damages, costs and expenses incurred in their capacities as such, but the indemnity does not extend to any matter in respect of any willful neglect or intentional malfeasance which may be attached to such person. Compensation of Senior Management and Directors Compensation Arrangements with Directors. We paid aggregate cash compensation (including directors’ fees, meeting fees, travel expenses and stock-based compensation settled in cash) during 2010 to our current non-employee directors equal to US$0.2 million. Our non-employee directors are reimbursed for travel and related expenses incurred in connection with each board of directors or board committee meeting. We do not compensate directors who are employees of Expedia (or its affiliates) for service on our board of directors or committees of our board of directors. Our CEO, Mr. Guangfu Cui, became a member of our board of directors in February 2011, and his compensation is discussed below under the heading “Compensation Arrangements with Senior Executive Officers.” Pursuant to our non-employee director compensation policy, a recurring annual grant will be made annually on December 1st to each of our non-employee directors. On December 1, 2010, we granted Fernando Gil de Bernabé, Tom Gurnee and Michael Scown 5,224 performance units which will vest annually over a 3-year period and which upon vesting will be settled in cash. Compensation Arrangements with Senior Executive Officers. Compensation arrangements with our senior executive officers consist of (i) cash compensation, which includes an annual salary and the opportunity to earn an annual bonus, (ii) equity compensation in the form of stock options and performance units, and/or (iii) other benefits in the form of vacation days and premiums paid for health insurance. We paid aggregate cash compensation in 2010 to our current senior executive officers equal to RMB11.4 million (US$1.7 million). In 2010 and 2011, we granted equity compensation in the form of stock options to each of our current senior executive officers. Information on our equity grants to our senior executive officers is contained in the section below entitled “Share Ownership.” - 49 - Table of Contents Employment Agreements with Executive Officers Employment agreement with Guangfu Cui. We entered into an employment agreement with Guangfu Cui, our Chief Executive Officer, effective October 8, 2007. The employment agreement, as amended, provides an annual base salary of RMB1.7 million (US$0.3 million), and an annual discretionary bonus of up to RMB1.9 million (US$0.3 million). Pursuant to the agreement, Mr. Cui was granted 111,112 performance units under our 2004 Plan, 20% of which vest on each of the first, second, third, fourth and fifth year anniversaries of Mr. Cui’s employment start date. In addition, Mr. Cui was granted an option to purchase 111,112 of our ordinary shares, with an exercise price of US$4.50 per share, and the same vesting schedule as the performance units. Mr. Cui also entered into non-competition, non-solicitation, confidential information and work product assignment agreements with us and with our subsidiary eLong Information. The terms of such agreements are set forth below under “Non-Competition Agreements with Our Senior Executive Officers.” For information on subsequent stock option grants made to Mr. Cui in May 2009, March 2010 and December 2010, see the section below entitled “Equity Compensation Plan and Grants.” Employment agreements with other senior executive officers. We have entered into our standard form English or Chinese language employment agreements with our other senior executive officers. As discussed below, each of the agreements requires that the relevant employee enter into non-competition agreements with us and/or with our subsidiary eLong Information. In addition to the standard arrangements for our senior executive officers, our agreement with Mike Doyle, as amended, is for a term of four years and two months expiring on May 31, 2013, provides for use of a company van, and contains severance provisions whereby Mr. Doyle will be entitled to a payment of one half of his annual base salary if he is terminated by eLong without cause during the term of his contract, or his annual base salary if such termination occurs within 90 days after the completion of a transaction which results in Expedia (or any affiliate or party acting in concert with Expedia) no longer possessing or otherwise able to direct or control the majority of our voting power. Non-competition agreements with our senior executive officers. We and/or our subsidiary eLong Information are parties to non-competition agreements with each of our current senior executive officers. These agreements generally provide that during each executive’s employment and for one year after the termination of such executive’s employment, the executive will not compete with us or our subsidiaries or affiliates. The non-competition period of the agreement with Mr. Doyle extends until the earlier of (1) 12 months after the termination of his employment and (2) three years after the effective date of his employment agreement. Share Ownership Please refer to “Item 7: Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions” and to “Equity Compensation Plans and Grants” below for a description of the share ownership of our directors and senior executive officers. Equity Compensation Plans and Grants We have adopted three equity compensation plans: the eLong, Inc. Stock Option Plan, adopted in April 2001 (the “2001 Plan”), the eLong, Inc. Stock and Annual Incentive Plan, adopted in July 2004 (the “2004 Plan”), and the eLong, Inc. 2009 Share and Annual Incentive Plan (the “2009 Plan”). Each equity compensation plan is discussed in additional detail below. 2001 Plan Under the 2001 Plan, we have granted options to purchase our ordinary shares, of which 24,852 options granted to our current employees are outstanding, and have not been exercised, as of May 31, 2011. These options were granted on January 1, 2004, have an exercise price of $1.53 per ordinary share option and expire on December 31, 2013. All options outstanding under the 2001 Plan are fully vested and exercisable. We currently do not intend to issue any additional options under the 2001 Plan. In addition, Purple Mountain Holding, Ltd. (“Purple Mountain”) and certain former employees hold a total of 161,350 options to purchase our ordinary shares under the 2001 Plan. Purple Mountain holds 156,250 options which were granted to Justin Tang, our former CEO and former Board Member in 2003 and subsequently transferred to Purple Mountain. The options are fully vested, have an exercise price of $1.53 per ordinary share option and, in the case of Purple Mountain, expire on August 10, 2011, which is 60 days after the date on which Mr. Tang ceased to be a member of our Board of Directors. The 5,100 other options held by former employees expire 60 days after the date of each employee’s termination of employment with us. - 50 - Table of Contents 2004 Plan We have reserved an aggregate of 4,000,000 of our ordinary shares for issuance under the 2004 Plan. Under the 2004 Plan, we have granted stock options and performance units to our officers, key employees, directors and non-employee consultants, as discussed below. Stock Options Granted under the 2004 Plan As of May 31, 2011, 950,864 stock options were granted, outstanding, and have not been exercised under the 2004 Plan. The following table summarizes, as of May 31, 2011, the outstanding options granted under the 2004 Plan to our current employees and directors. Unless otherwise noted below, grants under the 2004 Plan expire ten years after the grant date. Ordinary shares underlying outstanding options Exercise Price Option Holder granted (US$) Date of grant Thomas Gurnee 30,000 (1) 6.75 November 2, 2004 Guangfu Cui 91,112 (2) 4.50 September 4, 2007 400,000 (3) 8.82 December 6, 2010 Michael Scown 30,000 (1) 3.935 January 9, 2008 Mike Doyle 125,984 (4) 3.175 May 29, 2009 Other employees 273,768 From 4.95 to 10.46 From July 23, 2004 to April 12, 2011 Total 950,864 (1) These options are fully vested and exercisable. (2) Vests over a five year period with 20% of the option vesting on each of the first, second, third, fourth and fifth anniversary of the start date of the employee’s employment with us. (3) Vests over a four year period with 25% of the option vesting on each of the first, second, third and fourth anniversary of the grant date. (4) Vests over a three year period with 30% of the option vesting on each of the first and second anniversaries of the grant date, and 40% of the option vesting on the third anniversary of the grant date. The option expires on the fifth anniversary of the grant date. The option immediately vests upon the occurrence of a change of control as defined in the 2009 Plan. - 51 - Table of Contents In addition, Justin Tang, our former CEO and former Board Member, holds 306,250 options to purchase our ordinary shares under the 2004 Plan. These options were granted to Mr. Tang on July 23, 2004, are fully-vested, have an exercise price of $5.25 per ordinary share option and expire on August 10, 2011, which is 60 days after the date on which Mr. Tang ceased to be a member of our Board of Directors. Performance Units Granted under the 2004 Plan Performance units are awards in the form of units that are denominated in a hypothetical equivalent number of our ordinary shares, which number of units are determined based on the fair market value of our ordinary shares which, when vested, are settled, in either ordinary shares or cash. At the time of grant, our board of directors or the compensation committee determines if we will settle the performance units in cash, stock or both. Settlement terms of performance units, once established, may only be changed by approval of our board of directors or the compensation committee. Except for the performance units granted to our non-employee directors which are to be settled in cash (and are not reflected in the table below), performance units granted to our employees are settled in ordinary shares. The performance units granted during 2010 to our non-employee directors are to be settled upon vesting in cash in an amount equal to the number of the vested performance units multiplied by the fair market value of our ordinary shares on the applicable vesting date. The fair market value of the performance units is determined based upon the fair value of the underlying ordinary shares on the date immediately preceding the grant date. Our performance units are subject to service-based vesting where a specific period of continued employment must pass before an award vests. Typically, a portion of the performance units granted vest periodically over the term of the grant. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the 2004 Plan, unless otherwise determined by our board of directors, if, during the one-year period following a change in control, the performance unit holder incurs a termination of employment by us other than by reason of death, disability or cause or the performance unit holder resigns for good reason, such holder shall be entitled as of the termination of employment to an additional 12 months of vesting of the performance unit to the extent unvested as of the termination of employment. The following table summarizes, as of May 31, 2011, the unvested and outstanding performance units granted to our current employees and directors under the 2004 Plan. Ordinary Shares underlying Outstanding Performance Unit Holder Performance Units Date of grant Thomas Gurnee 4,612 (1) December 1, 2008 5,650 (1) December 1, 2009 5,224 (1) December 1, 2010 Michael Scown 4,612 (1) December 1, 2008 5,650 (1) December 1, 2009 5,224 (1) December 1, 2010 Fernando Gil de Bernabé 5,224 (1) December 1, 2010 Guangfu Cui 44,444 (2) September 4, 2007 Mike Doyle 78,949 (2) May 29, 2009 Sami Farhad 44,500 (2) May 22, 2008 Jason Xie 28,986 (2) January 9, 2008 Other employees 327,113 from October 2, 2006 to May 9, 2011 Total 560,188 - 52 - Table of Contents (1) The performance units vest 33% each year on the anniversary of December 1 of the grant date and are settled in cash. A recurring annual grant is made to each of our non-employee directors. (2) Twenty percent of the performance units granted vest on the first, second, third, fourth and fifth year anniversaries of the start date of the employee’s employment with us. 2009 Plan We have reserved an aggregate of 6,000,000 of our ordinary shares for issuance under the 2009 Plan. The 2009 Plan was adopted by our Board of Directors on May 13, 2009, was amended to allow grants to our Directors and adopted by our shareholders on December 30, 2009, and was amended by our Board of Directors on March 17, 2011 to increase the total number of authorized shares from 3,000,000 to 6,000,000. Under the 2009 Plan, as amended, the Compensation Committee or Board of Directors may grant stock options, share appreciation rights, restricted shares or performance units to our employees, directors, officers or consultants. The terms of the 2009 Plan differ from those of the 2004 Plan in some respects, including but not limited to, the following: • Upon the occurrence of a “change in control,” the 2009 Plan provides for immediate vesting of the then outstanding options or other equity grants under the 2009 Plan to employees with the rank of Vice President or above; and • Within two years following the date of a change of control, if the employment of a recipient of an award under the 2009 Plan is terminated or resigns for “good reason” (as defined under the 2009 Plan), such employee’s options and other equity grants would vest. Change of control is defined in the 2009 Plan to include (i) the acquisition or control of the majority of our voting power by a person or group other than Barry Diller, Liberty Media, Expedia and their respective affiliates; (ii) announcement by a person of a going private transaction or other transaction which will result in our ordinary shares or ADSs no longer being publicly listed; and (iii) certain other types of business combinations or sales or dispositions of the majority of our assets. Our board of directors adopted the 2009 Plan on May 13, 2009 and amended the 2009 Plan on March 17, 2011 without seeking prior shareholder approval, as permitted under our articles of association and the law of the Cayman Islands. We have notified the Nasdaq stock market of the Company’s decision to use home country practice with respect to the adoption of employee equity incentive plans such as the 2009 Plan. See “Item 16G: Corporate Governance.” On December 30, 2009, at our annual general meeting of shareholders, our shareholders amended the 2009 Plan to allow grants to members of our Board of Directors and approved the 2009 Plan as so amended. The specific terms of each grant made to an employee are contained in a stock option agreement which we enter into with the employee. Under the terms of the relevant stock option agreements, the grants we made to our employees on March 9, 2010 and March 7, 2011 do not immediately vest upon the announcement by a person of a going private transaction or other transaction which will result in our ordinary shares or ADSs no longer being publicly listed. - 53 - Table of Contents As of May 31, 2011, we had granted 3,984,210 stock options to our current employees which were outstanding and have not been exercised under the 2009 Plan. The following table provides additional information on grants made under the 2009 Plan to our current employees which were outstanding and unexercised as of May 31, 2011. The grants made in 2009 and 2010 under the 2009 Plan vest over three years, with 30% of the option vesting on each of the first and second anniversaries of the grant date, and 40% vesting on the third anniversary of the grant date. The grants made in March 2011 under the 2009 Plan vest over four years, with 25% of the option vesting on each of the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of the grant date. All grants which have been made under the 2009 Plan expire on the fifth anniversary of the grant date. Ordinary Shares Underlying Outstanding Exercise Price Option Holder Options Granted (US$) Date of grant Guangfu Cui 83,779 3.175 May 29 2009 110,000 5.695 March 9, 2010 Mike Doyle 80,000 5.695 March 9, 2010 288,000 6.815 March 7, 2011 Sami Farhad 47,439 3.175 May 29 2009 55,000 5.695 March 9, 2010 120,000 6.815 March 7, 2011 Jason Xie 53,543 3.175 May 29, 2009 53,000 5.695 March 9, 2010 130,000 6.815 March 7, 2011 Other employees 2,963,449 3.175 to 6.815 May 29, 2009 to March 7, 2011 Total 3,984,210 In addition, certain former employees hold a total of 73,940 options to purchase our ordinary shares under the 2009 Plan. The options held by each former employee are fully-vested and expire 90 days after the date of such employee’s termination of employment with us. Options Granted to Expedia Asia Pacific In August 2004, we granted to Expedia Asia Pacific an option to purchase 711,429 ordinary shares at an exercise price of US$5.25 per share. The option mirrors the terms and conditions of the 1.66 million options granted to certain of our employees and officers on July 23, 2004 under our 2004 Plan. The option becomes exercisable by Expedia Asia Pacific each time any such officer or employee exercises any of such 1.66 million options. In connection with each exercise by an employee or officer, Expedia Asia Pacific is entitled to exercise a portion of its option such that Expedia Asia Pacific would receive (if Expedia Asia Pacific exercises to the fullest extent in connection with such employee or officer exercise) 30% of the aggregate ordinary shares issued to such employee or officer and Expedia Asia Pacific in connection with such employee or officer exercise. To the extent that any such officer’s or employee’s options terminate or expire without being exercised, an amount of Expedia Asia Pacific’s option equal to 30% of (i) such officer’s or employee’s terminated or expired options divided by (ii) 0.70, will likewise terminate or expire. As of May 31, 2011, 575,893 options granted to Expedia Asia Pacific had been exercised, forfeited or expired as a result of the exercise, forfeiture or expiration of the options of the relevant eLong employees. As of May 31, 2011, Expedia Asia Pacific held an option to purchase up to 135,536 ordinary shares, of which 131,250 are exercisable upon the exercise by Justin Tang of 306,250 options granted to him under the 2004 Plan. Mr. Tang’s options are fully-vested and expire on August 10, 2011. - 54 - Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 1,860 employees. We believe we have good relationships with our employees, including any represented by works councils or other organizations. The following table sets forth the number of our employees categorized by function as of the dates indicated. As of December 31, 2008 2009 2010 General and administrative 198 176 164 Cost of services 1,030 905 1,024 Sales and marketing 365 248 171 Service development 328 436 501 Total 1,921 1,765 1,860 The data above includes part time workers and student interns, but excludes staffing personnel who are employed by outsourcing firms. In 2010, the number of employees in our general and administrative, sales and marketing decreased as we made efficiency gains and focused our business online. At the same time, our cost of services and service development employees increased as our business volumes and technology investments grew. A substantial majority of our employees are based at our headquarters office in Beijing, China. Item 7: Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions Major Shareholders Our shareholding structure consists of ordinary shares, each of which is entitled to one vote, and high-vote ordinary shares, each of which is entitled to fifteen votes. Our high-vote ordinary shares and our ordinary shares vote together as a single class on all matters submitted to a shareholder vote, including the election of the members of our board of directors. Unless otherwise noted, the information below with respect to our major shareholders is as of May 31, 2011. As of May 31, 2011, 33,982,882 of our ordinary shares and 33,589,204 of our high-vote ordinary shares were outstanding, excluding shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and shares issuable upon the settlement of performance units. On that date, a total of 9,890,307 of our ADSs (equivalent to 19,780,614 of our ordinary shares) were outstanding. We are not aware of any arrangement that may, at a subsequent date, result in a change in control of our company. Expedia, through Expedia Asia Pacific, is the beneficial owner of 28,550,704 of our high-vote ordinary shares and 8,952,839 of our ordinary shares, together representing approximately 55.7% of our total outstanding shares (including both ordinary shares and high-vote ordinary shares). As a result of the shareholding of Expedia Asia Pacific, Expedia controls approximately 81% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of our stock. Accordingly, Expedia generally is able to exercise control over all matters requiring approval by our board of directors or our shareholders. Tencent, through TCH Sapphire, is the beneficial owner of 5,038,500 of our high-vote ordinary shares and 6,031,500 of our ordinary shares, together representing approximately 16.4% of our total outstanding shares (including both ordinary shares and high-vote ordinary shares). As a result of the shareholding of TCH Sapphire, Tencent controls approximately 15.2% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of our voting stock. - 55 - Table of Contents Oak Pacific Interactive (“OPI”), a Cayman Islands corporation, stated in a Schedule 13D (Amendment No. 4) filed with the SEC on June 24, 2009, that OPI had purchased an aggregate of 6,257,382 of our ordinary shares for an aggregate purchase price of approximately US$21.4 million. Based on this filing, we understand that OPI holds approximately 18.4% of our ordinary shares, representing 9.3% of our total outstanding shares (including both ordinary shares and high-vote ordinary shares), and approximately 1.2% of our total voting power. Lawrence Auriana stated in a Schedule 13G, filed with the SEC on February 14, 2011, that Mr. Auriana was the beneficial owner of 2,911,111 of our ordinary shares. Based on this filing, we understand that Mr. Auriana holds approximately 8.6% of our ordinary shares, representing 4.3% of our outstanding shares (including both ordinary shares and high-vote ordinary shares), and less than 1% of our total voting power. T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. (“T. Rowe Price”), stated in a Schedule 13G (Amendment No. 3) filed with the SEC on March 10, 2011, that it was the beneficial owner of 953,900 of our ordinary shares. Based on this filing, we understand that T. Rowe Price holds approximately 2.8% of our ordinary shares, 1.4% of our outstanding shares (including both ordinary shares and high-vote ordinary shares) and less than 1% of our total voting power. The following tables set forth information with respect to beneficial ownership, within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, of our ordinary shares and high-vote ordinary shares by each person known to us who beneficially owns more than 5% of our ordinary shares. As of May 31, 2011, taking into account stock options and performance units which will vest within 60 days, none of our current senior executive officers or directors owns more than 1% of our ordinary shares. High-vote Ordinary Shares Beneficially Owned Amount % Principal Shareholders Expedia Asia Pacific 28,550,704 85.0 % TCH Sapphire 5,038,500 15.0 % Ordinary Shares Beneficially Owned(1) Amount % Principal Shareholders Expedia Asia Pacific 8,952,839 26.3 % Oak Pacific Interactive(2) 6,257,382 18.4 % TCH Sapphire Limited 6,031,500 17.8 % Lawrence Auriana(3)* 2,911,111 8.6 % (1) Beneficial ownership is determined in accordance with the rules of the SEC and includes voting or investment power with respect to stock as well as options, warrants or rights. (2) Based on a Schedule 13D (Amendment No. 4) filed by Oak Pacific Interactive with the SEC on June 24, 2009. The address for Oak Pacific Interactive is c/o Wilson Chu, Esq., Haynes and Boone, LLP, 2323 Victory Avenue, Suite 700, Dallas, TX 75219. (3) Based on a Schedule 13G/A filed on February 14, 2011. Represents 2,911,111 ordinary shares held for the benefit of Mr. Auriana. Mr. Auriana has placed his shares in a discretionary trust account with Sandgrain Securities Inc., with Angelo Frank Perrone being authorized to direct the disposition of such shares. As a result, Sandgrain Securities Inc. and Mr. Perrone may also be deemed to beneficially own the shares. The address for Mr. Auriana is 140 E. 45th Street, 43rd Floor, New York, NY 10017. * Lawrence Auriana and Expedia Asia Pacific are parties to an Investors Agreement, dated July 23, 2004, whereby he agreed to vote his shares in the manner provided in the Investors Agreement, including for the election of directors designated by Expedia. On May 18, 2010, the Investors Agreement was amended to terminate these voting provisions. - 56 - Table of Contents Related Party Transactions We have entered into a number of related-party agreements, with Expedia (and its affiliates) and Tencent (and its affiliates), as well as with our former CEO and former Board Member, Justin Tang and an entity he controls, Purple Mountain Holding, Ltd. Each of these related party agreements has been approved by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Share Issuance and Sale to TCH Sapphire and Expedia Asia Pacific. On May 16, 2011, the Company issued 5,038,500 high-vote ordinary shares and 6,031,500 ordinary shares to TCH Sapphire, a subsidiary of Tencent, for a total purchase price of US$84,389,378. On the same date, the Company issued 5,400,500 ordinary shares to Expedia Asia Pacific for a total purchase price of US$41,169,361. The purchase price was calculated based on one-half of the average closing price of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market during the 20 trading day period immediate preceding the date of these transactions. In addition to entering into separate Share Purchase Agreements with Expedia Asia Pacific and TCH Sapphire, the Company, Expedia Asia Pacific and TCH Sapphire also entered into an Investor Rights Agreement. Pursuant to the Investor Rights Agreement, TCH Sapphire has the right to nominate one member of our Board of Directors, and Expedia Asia Pacific has agreed to vote in favor of such nominee for so long as TCH Sapphire continues to hold not less than 10% of our outstanding shares, subject to certain exceptions. The Investor Rights Agreement also sets forth certain other rights and obligations, including: • a three-year lock up period for the newly-issued shares acquired by TCH Sapphire (the “Tencent Shares”), other than certain permitted transfers by TCH Sapphire to its affiliates; • a right of first offer in favor of Expedia Asia Pacific for transfers by TCH Sapphire of the Tencent Shares; • the redesignation of the TCH Sapphire high-vote ordinary shares as ordinary shares prior to any transfer to a third party; • restrictions on transfers of the Tencent Shares to certain parties deemed to be competitors of eLong; • preemptive rights in favor Expedia Asia Pacific and TCH Sapphire with respect to future issuances of equity; and • consent rights in favor of TCH Sapphire with respect to actions by eLong to alter the rights of the ordinary or high-vote shares in a manner adverse to TCH Sapphire or to dissolve, liquidate or windup the company. Each of these rights and obligations is subject to certain exceptions. In addition, we have also entered into a number of commercial agreements with Tencent, whereby we cooperate with Tencent and its affiliates in the provision of hotel booking and other travel-related services. Transaction Agreement and Non-Compete Covenant. On August 4, 2004, we entered into a transaction agreement (the “Transaction Agreement”) with Expedia Asia Pacific in connection with the initial investment by Expedia Asia Pacific in eLong, which gave Expedia Asia Pacific and its ultimate parent company, Expedia, beneficial ownership of the majority of our then outstanding shares on a fully-diluted basis and approximately 95% voting power of our then outstanding shares. - 57 - Table of Contents The Transaction Agreement also provides that, as long as Expedia Asia Pacific holds more than a 15% economic interest in us, Expedia Asia Pacific and its affiliates will be prohibited from, directly or indirectly, owning, managing, operating or otherwise controlling any entity or business which operates a travel service in China or which markets travel services specifically to Chinese residents. The non-compete restriction is subject to exceptions for certain pre-existing businesses. In addition, Expedia Asia Pacific and its affiliates are not restricted from acquiring entities or participating in joint ventures or strategic relationships with entities that engage in a competitive business, so long as the assets and revenues attributable to the competitive business do not exceed 10% of the assets or revenues of the acquired entity, the joint venture or our company. As discussed below, we and Expedia have entered into waivers of the non-compete covenant for certain business activities of Expedia or its affiliates in China. Other Agreements with Expedia or Expedia Affiliates Expedia Affiliate Network Cooperation. In January 2010, we entered into an Affiliation Agreement with IAN.com, L.P (“IAN”), an entity which is ultimately controlled by Expedia, pursuant to which we provide our customers access to international hotel inventory and services provided by IAN. Under this agreement, we receive commission for international hotel rooms supplied by IAN which are purchased by our customers. Hotels.com Cooperation Agreements. In December 2008, we entered into a Non-Compete Waiver, a Private Label Agreement and a Profit-Share Agreement with Hotels.com, an affiliate of Expedia. Under these agreements, we waived our rights under the non-compete covenant of the Transaction Agreement with respect to the Hotels.com website in Chinese, and we and Hotels.com agreed to cooperate to launch the Hotels.com website in Chinese (http//www.hotels.cn). Under these agreements, eLong provides a private-label website and other support and fulfillment services, and eLong and Hotels.com share the revenue from PRC and international hotel bookings through the Hotels.cn website. PSG Cooperation Agreement. In December 2010, we and Expedia entered into a PSG cooperation agreement, which amends the Private Label Agreement and the Profit-Share Agreements. Under the PSG Cooperation Agreement, eLong and Expedia agreed to a revenue share for inventory each supplies to the other, and to allow users of Expedia and Expedia Affiliates to seamlessly book eLong hotel inventory and users of eLong to book Expedia hotel inventory. In addition, the agreement provides for the reduction and elimination of the previously agreed revenue sharing arrangement under the Hotels.com cooperation agreements if Expedia meets certain targets for sales of inventory supplied by eLong. TripAdvisor and Kuxun Cooperation Agreements. In April 2009, we and Expedia entered into a non-compete waiver pursuant to which we waived any rights we may have under the non-compete covenant of the Transaction Agreement with respect to the business of TripAdvisor LLC, a subsidiary of Expedia, in China. In May 2009, we entered into a five-year cooperation agreement with Tuqu Net Information Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd. (“TripAdvisor China”) pursuant to which, in consideration of the April 2009 agreement between eLong and Expedia, we received preferential discounted advertising rates for specific types of eLong advertising on the TripAdvisor China website (http//www.daodao.com). In addition to commercial agreements at discounted advertising rates on TripAdvisorChina, we have also entered into a number of commercial agreements with TripAdvisor China and its affiliate, Kuxun, pursuant to which we advertise on TripAdvisorChina’s websites, including www.daodao.com and www.kuxun.cn. Indemnification Agreement with Expedia. On May 18, 2010, in connection with the purchase by Expedia Asia Pacific of 2,400,000 of our ordinary shares from Purple Mountain and Justin Tang, we entered into an Indemnification Agreement with Expedia and Expedia Asia Pacific, whereby Expedia and Expedia Asia Pacific each have agreed to indemnify us against any losses, claims or damages relating to taxes assessed on the shares which Expedia Asia Pacific purchased from Purple Mountain and Justin Tang. The indemnification obligation lasts for a period of five years from the date of the agreement. - 58 - Table of Contents Agreements with Justin Tang Transfer of Equity Interest in Beijing Information and Beijing Media. On June 11, 2010, Justin Tang, our former nominee shareholder, transferred his 75% equity interest in Beijing Media and 75% interest in Beijing Information to our nominee shareholder, Guangfu Cui, our CEO and member of our Board of Directors. Escrow Agreement and Indemnification Agreement. On April 13, 2011, in connection with the exercise by Purple Mountain Holding of 1,377,430 share options, we entered into an Indemnification Agreement and a Securities Escrow Agreement with Purple Mountain and with Justin Tang. Under the Indemnification Agreement, Purple Mountain and Justin Tang each has agreed to indemnify us against any losses, claims or damages relating to taxes assessed on the ordinary shares issued pursuant to the option exercise. In addition, under the Securities Escrow Agreement, 577,244 ordinary shares of Purple Mountain have been placed in escrow for a period of four years, and we have the right to direct the escrow agent to release the shares to us in the event of any default under the Indemnification Agreement. Arrangements with Our Affiliated Chinese Entities Our subsidiary eLong Information conducts operations in China through a series of contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities, which hold the licenses and permits required to conduct our business. We have entered into various agreements with Guangfu Cui, our CEO and member of our Board of Directors, and Jack Wang, our Vice President of Partner Service Group, as our nominee shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities. These agreements are governed by PRC law and provide that any disputes will be resolved by arbitration in China. For additional information on our affiliated entities, see “