ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Company’s business, including the material risks and uncertainties that are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on, or that management currently deems immaterial, may also impair the Company’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations, the value of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment. We are subject to agreements with our regulators, which will require us to dedicate a significant amount of resources and which could otherwise adversely affect us. In February 2012, the Bank entered into a Consent Order with the FDIC and the BFI. Among other things, the Consent Order requires us to develop and submit plans to reduce and improve our loan portfolio, reducing our commercial real estate concentration, maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses, review our management performance, and correct certain violations of law. In addition, the Consent Order requires us to limit asset growth to no more than 10% per year and maintain certain capital ratios higher than those required to be considered “well capitalized.” The Company has also agreed not to declare or pay any dividends, pay bonuses or make any other form of payment outside the ordinary course of business resulting in a reduction of capital without prior regulatory approval. In June 2012, the Company entered into a Written Agreement with the Reserve Bank. Under the terms of the Written Agreement, the Company agreed to develop and submit to the Reserve Bank for approval within the time periods specified therein written plans to maintain sufficient capital and correct any violations of section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W. In addition, the Company will submit a written statement of its planned sources and uses of cash for debt service, operation expenses, and other purposes. 21 Table of Contents While subject to these agreements, we expect that our management and board of directors will be required to focus considerable time and attention on taking corrective actions to comply with the terms. In addition, certain provisions of these agreements described above could adversely impact the Company’s businesses and results of operations. There also is no guarantee that we will successfully address our regulators’ concerns in the agreements or that we will be able to comply with them. If we do not comply with these regulatory agreements, we could be subject to the assessment of civil monetary penalties, further regulatory sanctions and/or other regulatory enforcement actions. The Company’s business has been adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally, and could be further impacted by continued stagnation. From December 2007 through June 2009, the U.S. economy was in recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions in the U.S. was greatly reduced. Although economic conditions have begun to improve, certain sectors, such as real estate, remain weak and unemployment remains high. Local governments and many businesses are still in serious difficulty due to lower consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Market conditions also led to the failure or merger of several prominent financial institutions and numerous regional and community-based financial institutions. These failures, as well as potential future failures, have had a significant negative impact on the capitalization level of the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC, which, in turn, has led to a significant increase in deposit insurance premiums paid by financial institutions. Such conditions have adversely affected the credit quality of the Company’s loans, and the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services the Company offers, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates. If economic conditions do not improve, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Improvements in economic indicators disproportionately affecting the financial services industry may lag improvements in the general economy. Should the stabilization of the U.S. economy lead to a general economic recovery, the improvement of certain economic indicators, such as unemployment and real estate asset values and rents, may nevertheless continue to lag behind the overall economy. These economic indicators typically affect certain industries, such as real estate and financial services, more significantly. For example, improvements in commercial real estate fundamentals typically lag broad economic recovery by 12 to 18 months. The Company’s clients include entities active in these industries. Furthermore, financial services companies with a substantial lending business are dependent upon the ability of their borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. Should unemployment or real estate asset values fail to recover for an extended period of time, the Company could be adversely affected. Our mortgage banking revenue is cyclical and is sensitive to the level of interest rates, changes in economic conditions, decreased economic activity, and slowdowns in the housing market, any of which could adversely impact our profits. Our mortgage banking operations have experienced a significant increase in loan production, including through the addition of a loan production office in Northern Virginia, and have become a large portion of our revenues. Maintaining this revenue stream is dependent upon our ability to originate loans and sell them to investors at or near current volumes. Loan production levels are sensitive to changes in the level of interest rates and changes in economic conditions. Recently, revenues from mortgage banking have increased due to our expansion; however, a significant portion of this increase is also due to a lowering interest rate environment that resulted in a high volume of mortgage loan refinancing activity, which may not continue at its recent pace. Loan production levels may also suffer if we experience a slowdown in the local housing market or tightening credit conditions. Any sustained period of decreased activity caused by fewer refinancing transactions, higher interest rates, housing price pressure or loan underwriting restrictions would adversely affect our mortgage originations and, consequently, could significantly reduce our income from mortgage banking activities. As a result, these conditions would also adversely affect our results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Deteriorating economic conditions may also cause home buyers to default on their mortgages. In certain cases where we have originated loans and sold them to investors, we may be required to repurchase loans or provide a financial settlement to investors if it is proven that the borrower failed to provide full and accurate information on or related to their loan application or for which appraisals have not been acceptable or when the loan was not underwritten in accordance with the loan program specified by the loan investor. Such repurchases or settlements would also adversely affect our results of operations. Our results of operations are significantly affected by the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. A significant source of risk is the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loan agreements. Most of the Company’s loans are secured but some loans are unsecured. With respect to the secured loans, the collateral securing the repayment of these loans may be insufficient to cover the obligations owed under such loans. Collateral values may be adversely affected by changes in economic, environmental and other conditions, including declines in the value of real estate, changes in interest rates, changes in monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government, widespread disease, terrorist activity, environmental contamination and other external events. In addition, collateral appraisals that are out of date or that do not meet industry recognized standards may create the impression that a loan is adequately collateralized when it is not. The Company has adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and policies, including regular reviews of appraisals and borrower financial statements, that management believes are appropriate to mitigate the risk of loss. During the recessionary economy the last four years, we have sustained significant loan losses that have resulted in operating losses. These loan losses were the result of borrowers’ inability to repay coupled with a decline in the value of the collateral, primarily real estate. In the fourth quarter of 2012, we did not have to provide for any loan losses which resulted in a return to profitability. While we are encouraged by this decline in the provision for loan losses, overall asset quality continues to be a concern as there continues to be uncertainty in the economy and the level of nonperforming assets remains significant. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 67% of the Company’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. Because the Company’s loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Further, if repurchase and indemnity demands with respect to the Company’s loan portfolio increase, its liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. The Company’s allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity 23 Table of Contents and requires the Company to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration of economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside the Company’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and have required an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. Further, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, the Company will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. The operations of financial institutions such as the Company are dependent to a large degree on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from loans and investments and interest expense on deposits and borrowings. An institution’s net interest income is significantly affected by market rates of interest that in turn are affected by prevailing economic conditions, by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and by the policies of various regulatory agencies. The Federal Reserve Board (FRB) regulates the national money supply in order to manage recessionary and inflationary pressures. In doing so, the FRB may use techniques such as engaging in open market transactions of U.S. Government securities, changing the discount rate and changing reserve requirements against bank deposits. The use of these techniques may also affect interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The interest rate environment, which includes both the level of interest rates and the shape of the U.S. Treasury yield curve, has a significant impact on net interest income. Like all financial institutions, the Company’s balance sheet is affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Volatility in interest rates can also result in disintermediation, which is the flow of deposits away from financial institutions into direct investments, such as US Government and corporate securities and other investment vehicles, including mutual funds, which, because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements, generally pay higher rates of return than bank deposit products. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk”. An inability to improve our regulatory capital position could adversely affect our operations. Federal regulatory agencies are required by law to adopt regulations defining five capital tiers: well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized. As of December 31, 2012 the Bank exceeded applicable thresholds to be considered well capitalized; however, as a result of our Consent Order with the FDIC and BFI, the Bank currently is considered adequately capitalized. Until we are no longer subject to the capital directives contained in the Consent Order and become well capitalized for regulatory capital purposes, we cannot renew or accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval and we may not offer interest rates on our deposit accounts that are significantly higher than the average rates in our market area. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract new deposits as our existing brokered deposits mature and do not rollover and to retain or increase non-brokered deposits. If we are not able to attract new deposits, our ability to fund our loan portfolio may be adversely affected. As a result of being adequately capitalized, we also could be subject to more frequent examinations by FDIC, restrictions on new branches and other potential limitations. In addition, we will pay higher insurance premiums to the FDIC, which will reduce our earnings. In addition, federal law establishes mandatory and discretionary restrictions on insured depository institutions that fail to remain at least adequately capitalized, which could include: submissions and implementations of capital plans, restrictions on payment of dividends and certain management fees, increased supervisory monitoring, restrictions as to asset growth, and branching and new business lines without regulatory approval. 24 Table of Contents The Company may have to rely on dividends from the Bank. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiary bank. Although the Company has never received any dividends from the Bank, it is entitled to receive dividends in accordance with federal and state regulations. These federal and state regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. The inability of the Company to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Declines in value may adversely impact the investment portfolio. We have not realized any non-cash, other-than-temporary impairment charges during 2012 as a result of reductions in fair value below original cost of any investments in our investment portfolio. However, we could be required to record future impairment charges on our investment securities if they suffer any declines in value that are considered other-than-temporary. Considerations used to determine other-than-temporary impairment status to individual holdings include the length of time the stock has remained in an unrealized loss position, and the percentage of unrealized loss compared to the carrying cost of the stock, dividend reduction or suspension, market analyst reviews and expectations, and other pertinent news that would affect expectations for recovery or further decline. The Company may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of its depositors and borrowers or meet its operating cash needs. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of the Company is used to service its debt. The liquidity of the Bank is used to make loans and leases and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. Liquidity policies and limits are established by the board of directors. The overall liquidity position of the Company and the Bank are regularly monitored to ensure that various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. Funding sources include Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements and non-core deposits. The Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta, which provides funding through advances to members that are collateralized with mortgage-related assets. If the Company is unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, we might be unable to meet customers’ needs, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and level of regulatory-qualifying capital Negative perceptions associated with the Company’s continued participation in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program may adversely affect its ability to retain customers, attract investors and compete for new business opportunities. A number of financial institutions which participated in the TARP Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) have received approval from the U.S. Treasury to exit the program. These institutions have, or are in the process of, repurchasing the preferred stock and repurchasing or auctioning the warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury as part of the program. The Company has not yet requested regulatory approval to repurchase the preferred stock and warrant from the U.S. Treasury. In order to repurchase one or both securities, in whole or in part, the Company must establish that it has satisfied all of the conditions to repurchase and must obtain the approval of the U.S. Treasury and the consent of the FDIC. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to repurchase these securities from the U.S. Treasury. The Company’s customers, employees and counterparties in its current and future business relationships may draw negative implications regarding the strength of the Company as a financial institution based on its continued participation in the program following the exit of one or more of its competitors or other financial institutions. Any such negative perceptions may impair the Company’s ability to effectively compete with other financial institutions for business or to retain high performing employees. If this were to occur, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially. 25 Table of Contents Government measures to regulate the financial industry, including the Dodd-Frank Act, subject us to increased regulation and could adversely affect us. As a financial institution, we are heavily regulated at the state and federal levels. As a result of the financial crisis and related global economic downturn that began in 2007, we have faced, and expect to continue to face, increased public and legislative scrutiny as well as stricter and more comprehensive regulation of our financial services practices. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act includes significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape and will impact all financial institutions, including the Company and the Bank. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have begun to be or will be implemented over the next several years and will be subject both to further rulemaking and the discretion of applicable regulatory bodies. Because the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act will depend on future regulatory rulemaking and interpretation, we cannot predict the full effect of this legislation on our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations implemented thereunder could limit debit card interchange fees, increase FDIC assessments, impose new requirements on mortgage lending, and establish more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies. As a result of these and other provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act, we could experience additional costs, as well as limitations on the products and services we offer and on our ability to efficiently pursue business opportunities, which may adversely affect our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. Holders of the TARP preferred stock may, under certain circumstances, have the right to elect two directors to our board of directors. As of December 31, 2012, we have not made payment of dividends on the TARP preferred stock for seven quarterly dividend periods. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the TARP preferred stock for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting our board of directors will be increased by two. Holders of the TARP preferred stock, together with the holders of any outstanding parity stock with like voting rights, voting as a single class, will be entitled to elect the two additional members of our board of directors at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for the purpose of electing these directors prior to the next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. In June 2012 the Treasury asked to allow an observer at the Company’s meetings of its board of directors. The observer started attending board meetings in August 2012. The Treasury has the contractual right to nominate up to two members to the board of directors upon the Company’s sixth missed dividend payment. The Company has deferred seven dividend payments as of December 31, 2012. However, Treasury has not indicated that it will nominate two directors to the board of directors. We are subject to executive compensation restrictions because of our participation in the CPP, which could limit our ability to recruit and retain executives. As a participant in the CPP, we are subject to TARP rules and standards governing executive compensation and corporate governance, which generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the next three most highly compensated employees (together, our “senior executive officers”), as well as a number of other employees. The standards include (i) a requirement to recover any bonus payment to senior executive officers and certain other employees if payment was based on materially inaccurate financial statements or performance metric criteria; (ii) a prohibition on making any golden parachute payments to senior executive officers and certain other employees; (iii) a prohibition on paying or accruing any bonus payment to our most highly compensated employee, subject to limited exceptions; (iv) a prohibition on maintaining any plan for senior executive officers that encourage such officers to take unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the Company’s value; (v) a prohibition on maintaining any employee compensation plan that encourages the manipulation of reported earnings to enhance the compensation of any employee; and (vi) a prohibition on providing tax gross-ups to senior executive officers and other employees. These restrictions and standards could limit our ability to recruit and retain executives. If we lose the services of our key personnel, or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our operations may be disrupted and our businesses, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. 26 Table of Contents The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in economic conditions and related uncertainties may have an adverse affect on the Company’s profitability. Commercial banking is affected, directly and indirectly, by local, domestic, and international economic and political conditions, and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, tight money supply, real estate values, international conflicts and other factors beyond the Company’s control may adversely affect the potential profitability of the Company. Any future rises in interest rates, while increasing the income yield on the Company’s earnings assets, may adversely affect loan demand and the cost of funds and, consequently, the profitability of the Company. Any future decreases in interest rates may adversely affect the Company’s profitability because such decreases may reduce the amounts that the Company may earn on its assets. A continued recessionary climate could result in the delinquency of outstanding loans. Management does not expect any one particular factor to have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations. However, downtrends in several areas, including real estate, construction and consumer spending, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. The supervision and regulation to which the Company is subject can be a competitive disadvantage. The operations of the Company and the Bank are heavily regulated and will be affected by present and future legislation and by the policies established from time to time by various federal and state regulatory authorities. In particular, the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of banks in the past, and are expected to continue to do so in the future. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve to implement its objectives are changes in the discount rate charged on bank borrowings and changes in the reserve requirements on bank deposits. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve or to existing federal and state legislation or the effect that such changes may have on the future business and earnings prospects of the Company. The Company is subject to changes in federal and state tax laws as well as changes in banking and credit regulations, accounting principles and governmental economic and monetary policies. During the past several years, significant legislative attention has been focused on the regulation and deregulation of the financial services industry. Non-bank financial institutions, such as securities brokerage firms, insurance companies and money market funds, have been permitted to engage in activities that compete directly with traditional bank business. 27 Table of Contents The competition the Company faces is increasing and may reduce our customer base and negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. There is significant competition among banks in the market areas served by the Company. In addition, as a result of deregulation of the financial industry, the Bank also competes with other providers of financial services such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, securities firms, insurance companies, the mutual funds industry, full service brokerage firms and discount brokerage firms, some of which are subject to less extensive regulations than the Company with respect to the products and services they provide. Some of the Company’s competitors have greater resources than the Corporation and, as a result, may have higher lending limits and may offer other services not offered by our Company. See “Item 1: Business — Competition.” Our deposit insurance premium could be substantially higher in the future which would have an adverse effect on our future earnings. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured financial institutions, including Village Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, which may result in the FDIC making more payments from the Deposit Insurance Fund and, in connection therewith, raising deposit premiums. In addition, the deposit insurance limit on FDIC deposit insurance coverage generally has increased to $250,000, which may result in even larger losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund. These developments and our financial condition have caused an increase to our assessment, and the FDIC may be required to made additional increases to the assessment rates and levy additional special assessments on us. Higher assessments increase our non-interest expense. In February 2011, the FDIC finalized a rule that increases premiums paid by insured institutions and makes other changes to the assessment system. The Company is generally unable to control the amount of premiums that it is required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures the Company may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact its earnings. Concern of customers over deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits. With the continuing news about bank failures, customers are increasingly concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with us is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our liquidity, funding sources and costs and net income. Fluctuations in the stock market could negatively affect the value of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s common stock trades under the symbol “VBFC” on the Nasdaq Capital Market. There can be no assurance that a regular and active market for the Common Stock will develop in the foreseeable future. See “Item 5: Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.” Investors in the shares of common stock may, therefore, be required to assume the risk of their investment for an indefinite period of time. Current lack of investor confidence in large banks may keep investors away from the banking sector as a whole, causing unjustified deterioration in the trading prices of community banks such as the Company. 28 Table of Contents If the Company fails to maintain an effective system of internal controls, it may not be able to accurately report its financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which could harm its business and the trading price of its common stock. The Company has established a process to document and evaluate its internal controls over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations, which require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In this regard, management has dedicated internal resources, engaged outside consultants and adopted a detailed work plan to (i) assess and document the adequacy of internal controls over financial reporting, (ii) take steps to improve control processes, where appropriate, (iii) validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and (iv) implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. The Company’s efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding the Company’s assessment of its internal controls over financial reporting. The Company’s management and audit committee have given the Company’s compliance with Section 404 a high priority. The Company cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that the Company implements and maintains adequate controls over its financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm the Company’s operating results or cause the Company to fail to meet its reporting obligations. If the Company fails to correct any issues in the design or operating effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting or fails to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which could harm its business and the trading price of its common stock. The Company is subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders. The Company is exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from its actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect its ability to attract and keep customers and can expose the Company to litigation and regulatory action. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. The Company’s necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. The Company also may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. The Company is further exposed to the risk that its external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as the Company is) and to the risk that its (or its vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability of the Company to operate its business, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. 29 Table of Contents The Company relies on other companies to provide key components of its business infrastructure. Third parties provide key components of the Company’s business infrastructure, for example, system support, and Internet connections and network access. While the Company has selected these third party vendors carefully, it does not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from their failure to provide services for any reason or their poor performance of services, could adversely affect its ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise conduct its business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 