D. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 20-F contains certain statements that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements.” We have based these “forward-looking statements” on our current expectations and projections about future events, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual future results may differ significantly from those stated or implied in any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our success depends upon market acceptance of our products, our ability to develop and commercialize new products and generate recurring revenues, and our ability to identify new markets for our technology. We have developed products for the treatment of a wide variety of cosmetic and medical indications including hair removal on all skin types; skin rejuvenation, skin resurfacing and wrinkle reduction; vascular lesions such as rosacea, facial spider veins, leg veins, port wine stains, angiomas and hemangiomas; tattoo removal, skin resurfacing scars, stretch marks and warts; removal of benign pigmented lesions such as sun spots, age spots, freckles, and Nevus of Ota/Ito; acne and acne scars; sebaceous hyperplasia; pseudofolliculitis barbae (beard bumps or PFB); treatment for the temporary reduction in the appearance of cellulite; reduction in thigh and abdomen circumference and fat removal; treatment of varicose veins; and skin brightening topical products. A failure to continue to penetrate our current market and new markets with our products, or manage the manufacturing and distribution of multiple products, could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends in part on acceptance of our new products and growth segments, including our body shaping products (Ultrashape and Velashape III) and face and skin products (PicoWay and Profound). The rate of adoption and acceptance of these and other of our products may be adversely affected by actual or perceived issues relating to quality, reliability and safety, customers’ reluctance to invest in new technologies, widespread acceptance of other technologies and changes in the competitive landscape. Our business strategy is based, in part, on an expectation that we will continue to make novel product introductions and upgrades or acquire new products, especially products with a large recurring revenue component, that we can sell to new and existing users of our products, and that we will be able to identify new markets for our products. To increase our revenues, we must: · develop or acquire new products and treatment modules that either add to or improve our current products and treatment protocols; · develop and grow sales of our consumables business, treatment modules and recurring revenue streams and business; · realize the expected benefits of our investment in expanding our sales force in North America and further expand sales of our body shaping and face and skin products, and additional new products, internationally; · convince our target customers that our products or product upgrades would be an attractive revenue-generating addition to their practices, and convince consumers that they would benefit from our treatments; · sell our products to customers who have traditionally not engaged in aesthetics procedures, including primary care physicians, obstetricians, ENT specialists, other specialists and non-medical professionals; 4 · become a valued, strategic vendor to our customers by providing them with clinical and marketing support to increase their revenues from treatments and consumables; · identify new markets and emerging technological trends in our target markets, and react effectively to technological changes; · maintain effective sales and marketing strategies; · differentiate our products, consumables, and services from those of our competitors; and · optimize our sales force by creating effective business alliances with distribution partners. We may be unable, however, to continue to develop or acquire new products or technologies, or develop new upgrades and treatment modules, develop or acquire businesses with consumables and recurring revenues, or increase recurring revenue streams at the rate we expect or at all, which could adversely affect our expected growth rate and result in the loss of funds invested in product development and marketing. In addition, the market for aesthetic devices is highly competitive and dynamic, and marked by rapid and substantial technological development and product innovations. We can provide no assurances that our efforts to promote and market our products, including our strategic investments in our North American business and leadership team and our consumer awareness campaigns, will be successful. Furthermore, to be successful, we must be responsive to new technological developments and new applications of existing technologies. Demand for our products could be diminished by equivalent or superior products and technologies offered by competitors, and recurring revenues may not increase even if unit sales of our products grow. Our financial results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Demand for our products varies from quarter to quarter, and these variations may cause our revenue to fluctuate significantly. As a result, it is difficult for us to accurately predict sales for subsequent periods. In addition, we base our production, inventory and operating expenditure levels on anticipated orders and sales forecasts. If orders are not received when expected in any given quarter, or if our forecasts for product unit sales or for the mix of products to be sold are not met, then expenditure levels could be disproportionately high in relation to revenue for that quarter. A number of additional factors over which we have limited control may contribute to fluctuations in our financial results, including: · the willingness of individuals to pay directly for aesthetic medical procedures, due to the general lack of third-party reimbursement for our treatments; · availability of attractive equipment financing terms for our customers; · changes in our ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals; · increases in the length of our sales cycle; · performance of our independent distributors; · delays in, or failures of, product and component deliveries by our subcontractors and suppliers; · competitive product pricing and/or financing from our competitors for products similar or equivalent to ours; · a general industry shift from a pure capital equipment business model to a combination of capital equipment, services and consumables business model; 5 · changes in demand for our products due to seasonal buying patterns and other factors, which tend to increase our revenues in the second and fourth quarters and decrease our revenues in the first and third quarters compared to other periods during the year; · delays in new product introductions; and · exchange rate fluctuations among the various currencies in which we do business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed. Our success and ability to compete depends in large part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology and products, including current patents and patent applications in the U.S. and internationally. Our pending and future patent applications may not be granted, or, if issued, may not be in a form that will be advantageous to us. Any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or legally circumvented by third parties. We cannot be certain that our patents will be upheld as valid and enforceable or will prevent the development of competitive products. Consequently, competitors could develop, manufacture and sell products that directly compete with our products, which could decrease our sales and diminish our ability to compete. In addition, competitors could purchase one of our products and attempt to replicate some or all of the competitive advantages we derive from our development efforts, design around our protected technology, or develop their own competitive technologies that fall outside of our intellectual property rights. If our intellectual property does not adequately protect us from our competitors’ products and methods, our business and competitive position could be adversely affected. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, and other intellectual property laws as well as confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of inventions agreements and contractual clauses, as appropriate, with our employees, consultants and customers to protect confidentiality and control access and distribution of our proprietary information. However, these measures may not be adequate to protect our technology from unauthorized disclosure, third party infringement or misappropriation. In addition, third parties may breach their agreements with us, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Additionally, others may learn of our trade secrets through a variety of methods. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. or Israel. For a description of our intellectual property, see Item 4.B. "Key Information – Business Overview – Intellectual Property". An increasing amount of intangible assets, goodwill and investments in affiliated companies on our books have led to and may in the future lead to additional significant impairment charges. The amount of goodwill, intangible assets and investments in affiliated companies on our consolidated balance sheet is significant. We regularly review our intangible and tangible assets, including identifiable intangible assets, investments in affiliated companies and goodwill, for impairment. Goodwill and acquired research and development not yet ready for use are subject to impairment review at least annually. Other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when there is an indication that impairment may have occurred. Impairment testing has led to and may in the future lead to significant additional impairment charges. For example, during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 the Company recorded impairment charges in the total amount of $3.3 million and $1.7 million, respectively following such impairment testing. In 2015, $0.2 million of the total impairment charge was attributed to developed technology and $3.1 million was attributed to customer relationships associated with our subsidiary CoolTouch. Future impairment charges, were they to occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For a description of how we determine whether impairment has occurred, what factors could result in impairment and the impact of impairment charges on our results of operations, see Item 5.A. "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Operating Results – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets" and Notes 2.m, 9 and 10 of our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. 6 We will need to continue to incur significant expenses, which could impact our future profitability. In order to grow our business and increase our revenues, we need to introduce and commercialize new products, grow our sales and marketing force, implement new software systems, as well as identify and penetrate new markets. Such endeavors have in the past, and may continue to in the future, increase our expenses, including sales and marketing, and research and development. We will have to continue to increase our revenue while effectively managing our expenses in order to achieve sustained profitability. Our failure to control expenses could reduce or eliminate our profitability. Moreover, we cannot provide any assurances that our expenditures will result in the successful development and introduction of new products in a cost-effective and timely manner or that any such new products will achieve market acceptance and generate revenues for our business. Exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. A majority of our revenues and a substantial portion of our expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, a portion of our revenues and a portion of our costs, including personnel and some marketing and facilities expenses, are incurred in New Israeli Shekels, Euros, Japanese Yen, Australian Dollars, Canadian Dollars, British Pounds Sterling, and Chinese Yuan. Inflation in Israel, Europe or Japan, or a weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, the Japanese Yen, or other currencies, may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial results. During 2015, the U.S. dollar depreciated against the New Israeli Shekel by approximately 1.1%, appreciated against the Euro by approximately 10.9%, appreciated against Japanese Yen by approximately 0.4%, appreciated against the Australian Dollar by approximately 12.2%, appreciated against the Canadian Dollar by approximately 19.4%, appreciated against the British Pound Sterling by approximately 4.54% and appreciated against the Chinese Yuan by approximately 5.7%. If the New Israeli Shekel were to strengthen in value in relation to the U.S. dollar, it will become more expensive for us to fund our operations. Although we use forward contracts and options to reduce the risk associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates, we may not be able to eliminate the effects of currency fluctuations. Thus, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Third-party claims of infringement or other claims against us could require us to redesign our products, seek licenses, or engage in future costly intellectual property litigation, which could impact our future business and financial performance. Third parties have claimed, and may in the future claim, that our current or future products infringe on their intellectual property or trade secret rights, and may seek to interfere with our ability to make, use, sell or import our products. Patent applications are latent for the first 18 months after filing and cannot be discovered until they are published. Accordingly, we can conduct only limited searches to determine whether our technology infringes any patents or patent applications of others. Infringement claims in the past, have, among other things, led to license agreements pursuant to which we were required to pay license fees to third-party claimants. We may also become involved in intellectual property litigation in the future. We are currently and may in the future become involved in litigation to protect the patents associated with our products. On January 28, 2016, Syneron brought an action for patent infringement against Invasix, Inc. and InMode MD, Ltd. in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California alleging, among other things, that the defendants’ Fractora face and skin treatment platforms, devices and methods which comprise energy delivery systems to ablate or coagulate the skin infringe Syneron’s U.S. Patent Nos. 6,148,232; 6,615,079; 8,496,654; 8,579,896 and 9,108,036. Following any successful third-party action for infringement, we may be required to settle the matter or pay substantial damages. In such cases, if we cannot obtain a license or redesign our products, we may have to stop manufacturing, selling and marketing our products, and our business could suffer significantly as a result. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, either against us or to protect our own intellectual property rights, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate, and could divert management’s attention from our business. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 7 We may in the future become involved in litigation to protect the trademark rights associated with our company name or the names of our products. In addition, names we choose for our products may be claimed to infringe upon names held by others. If we have to change the name of our products, we may experience a loss in goodwill associated with our brand name, customer confusion and a loss of sales. Please see Item 8.A. “Financial Information – Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information” for further details regarding legal proceeding and the risk arising under those proceedings. If we are not successful in coordinating our business with that of our acquired subsidiaries, then the benefits of our recent acquisitions will not be fully realized and our business and our share price may be negatively affected. In the last several years, we have acquired various companies. As of December 31, 2015, we and our subsidiaries had approximately 784 employees in a number of countries around the world. As a result, our management teams are facing challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs. We entered into these acquisitions with the expectation that they will result in benefits arising out of the business and product synergies between acquired companies and the Company. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant costs and commit significant management time to coordinating our subsidiaries’ business operations, technology, development programs, products and personnel with our business. We may experience difficulties integrating the operations of the businesses we have acquired, due to: · their diverse geographic locations; · inconsistent standards, controls, procedures, system software, and policies, any of which could adversely affect either company’s ability to maintain relationships with licensors, collaborators, partners, suppliers, customers and employees; · consolidating the subsidiaries’ business into our financial reporting system; · implementing internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; · coordinating sales, distribution and marketing functions; · regulatory issues; and · cultural differences. As a result of these and other factors, we may not successfully integrate our business with that of our subsidiaries or establish efficient arrangements and agreements with them in a timely manner, or at all, and we may not realize the benefits and synergies of these acquisitions to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated. It is also possible that such integration could lead to the loss of key employees, or the disruption, interruption, or loss of momentum in our ongoing business or that of our subsidiaries. Any of these possible outcomes could affect our ability to maintain our research and development, supply, distribution, marketing, customer and other relationships and could affect our business and financial results and, ultimately, the market price of our ordinary shares. 8 From time to time, we evaluate potential strategic acquisitions of additional companies, technologies and products. We also consider entering into additional joint venture agreements and other collaborations with potential distributors and partners. We may not be able to identify appropriate targets or strategic partners, or successfully negotiate, finance or integrate any such companies, products or technologies. Any acquisition that we pursue could diminish our cash position and divert management’s time and attention from our core operations. We compete against companies that also have established products and significant resources, which may prevent us from maintaining or increasing market share or operating results. Our products compete against products offered by public companies, including Cutera, Inc., Cynosure, Inc., and Zeltiq Aesthetics, Inc., as well as by private companies such as Sciton, Inc., Alma Lasers Ltd., and Lumenis Ltd and several other smaller specialized companies such as Lutronic, Inc. In the past few years, several large pharmaceutical companies have also entered the aesthetic device market, including Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (which acquired Solta Medical Inc. in 2014), and Merz Pharma Group (which acquired Ulthera, Inc. in 2014). We also face competition from medical products, including neurotoxins, hyaluronic acid injections, and aesthetic procedures, such as face lifts, liposuction, sclerotherapy, electrolysis, chemical peels and microdermabrasion, that are unrelated to energy-based devices. We also may face competition from manufacturers of pharmaceutical and other products that have not yet been developed. Competition with these companies and with products that do not rely on technologies that we utilize could result in reduced prices and profit margins and loss of market share, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to distinguish our company and our products and procedures from our competitors and their products, and includes the following factors: · product performance (procedure outcome and time required to achieve results); · quality of customer support and service; · clinical education of our customers and distributors in the use and efficacy of our products; · marketing support to help build our customers’ practices; · success and timing of new product development and introductions; · intellectual property protection; · development of successful distribution channels; and · our ability to maintain our existing customer relationships and to develop new customer relationships. Some of our competitors have well-established products and customer relationships, which could inhibit our market penetration efforts. If we are unable to achieve continued market penetration, we will be unable to compete effectively and our business will be harmed. In addition, some of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, research and development, manufacturing, and sales and marketing resources than we do. Our competitors could use their greater financial resources to acquire other companies, to gain enhanced name recognition and market share, as well as to acquire or develop new technologies or products that could effectively compete with our existing product lines. 9 We outsource a significant portion of the manufacturing of our products to a small number of manufacturing subcontractors. If our subcontractors’ operations are interrupted or if our orders exceed our subcontractors’ manufacturing capacity, we may not be able to deliver our products to customers on time. We outsource the manufacturing of products under the brand name of Syneron to two subcontractors located in Israel, and some of our consumable products to a subcontractor in China. Some of our subsidiaries also outsource the manufacturing of their products to various subcontractors. The manufacturing capacity of these subcontractors may be inadequate if our customers place orders for unexpectedly large quantities of our products. If the operations of any of these subcontractors were halted or limited, even temporarily, or if they were unable or unwilling to fulfill large orders, we could experience business interruption, increased costs, damage to our reputation and loss of our customers. In addition, even if we were able to obtain new subcontractors to supplement our manufacturing needs, qualifying such subcontractors could take several months, and there may be a learning curve until such new subcontractors manufacture products of the required quality. We manufacture, assemble and test our Candela line of products in our U.S. manufacturing facility. If our facility is damaged or becomes inoperative, we may not be able to deliver our products to customers on time. We operate an approximately 38,000 square-foot manufacturing facility in Wayland, Massachusetts at which we manufacture, assemble and test our Candela line of products. The products from this facility constitute a substantial portion of our total product revenue. Our inability to utilize this manufacturing facility due to damage or for any other reason may adversely affect our ability to deliver our products to our customers on time, which could significantly impair sales of Candela products and negatively impact our financial condition. We depend upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages, price fluctuations, and quality control issues, which could harm our business. Many of the components of our products are currently manufactured by a limited number of suppliers, and we do not have the ability to manufacture these components ourselves. Any interruption in the supply of components or materials or increase in demand beyond current suppliers’ capabilities, or our inability to obtain substitute components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business. Contract manufacturers or suppliers may fail to comply with regulatory requirements, which could result in defective products or the failure to produce our products on a timely basis and in the required quantities, if at all. In addition, contract manufacturers or suppliers experience quality control issues, which could negatively affect the efficacy or safety of our products or cause delays in shipments of our products. In addition, our indirect subsidiary, Candela Corporation (Candela), uses Alexandrite rods to manufacture the GentleMax™, GentleLASE PRO™, PicoWay®, and the AlexTriVantage™ systems, which together account for a significant portion of Candela’s total revenues. Candela depends exclusively on its contract manufacturer to supply these rods, and we are not aware of any alternative supplier meeting its quality standards. We cannot be certain that Candela's contract manufacturer will be able to meet Candela's future requirements for such rods at current prices or at all. To date, Candela has been able to obtain adequate supplies of Alexandrite rods in a timely manner, but any extended interruption in its supplies could hurt its results. 10 We sell our products in a number of countries and therefore our results of operations could suffer if we are unable to manage our international operations effectively. We are headquartered in Israel and have offices in three locations in the U.S., five locations in Japan, and offices in Canada, Hong Kong, China, Australia, Spain, Germany, Italy, France and the United Kingdom. We primarily depend on third-party distributors in territories in which we do not have offices, and on direct sales operations to sell our products in North America and in parts of Europe and Asia Pacific. Approximately 98% of our revenues were attributable to operations outside of Israel in 2015, of which 38.7% were generated from sales in North America, mainly attributable to sales in the U.S. Part of our strategy is to expand our sales in existing markets and to enter new foreign markets. Expansion of our international business will require significant management attention and financial resources. Our international sales and operations subject us to many risks inherent in international business activities, including: · foreign certification and regulatory requirements; · lengthy payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; · distribution center and warehousing logistics, customs clearance, and shipping delays; · import and export controls; · multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures; · changes in tax laws, including those imposing customs duties, and other laws; · regulatory practices and tariffs; · difficulties staffing and managing our international operations; · regional political and economic instability; · currency fluctuations; and · our third party distributors’ stability. If our international sales do not continue at the expected pace or suffer from greater challenges than expected, we will not experience our projected growth or will have decreased revenue and our financial results will suffer. Global rollout of a new enterprise resource planning system could disrupt our operations and cause unanticipated increases in our costs. In 2014, we commenced a project for a company-wide enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system. During 2015, the ERP system was rolled out at many of our major subsidiaries, and we plan to complete the global rollout to all our offices during 2016. We have invested and will continue to invest significant capital and human resources to ensure proper ERP functionality. Any major delays, disruptions or deficiencies in the design and implementation of the ERP system, particularly those that impact our operations, could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, timely report our financial results and otherwise run our business. 11 If we fail to obtain and maintain necessary U.S. Food and Drug Administration clearances, if clearances for future products, product modifications or enhancements, and indications are delayed or not issued, or if there are U.S. federal or state level regulatory changes, our commercial operations could be harmed. Most of our products are medical devices subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. by the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and also by corresponding state regulatory agencies and authorities, for product development, evaluation, manufacturing, labeling, sale, advertising, promotion, distribution, shipping and servicing. These entities regulate and oversee record-keeping procedures, recalls and other field safety corrective actions, post-market surveillance, including reporting of deaths or serious injuries and malfunctions that, if they were to recur, could lead to death or serious injury, and product import and export. The regulations to which we are subject are complex and have tended to become more stringent over time. Regulatory changes could result in restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations, higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated sales. For example, in the United States, state laws, including relevant state regulations governing the medical spas in which certain of our products may be targeted for marketing and use, may vary by state, and may affect who may purchase and use such products. Such regulations, and interpretations thereof, may limit our ability to market our products. Further, the FDA and U.S. state agencies have broad enforcement powers, and our failure to comply with U.S. federal and state regulations could lead to the issuance of warning letters or untitled letters, the imposition of injunctions, suspensions or loss of regulatory clearance or approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution, product seizures, civil penalties or import detention. In the most extreme cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. In particular, before we can commercially distribute a new medical device, product or a significant modification to an existing product in the United States, we must obtain either clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act, or the FDCA, or approval of a premarket approval, or PMA, application from the FDA, unless an exemption from premarket review applies. In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must determine that a proposed device is “substantially equivalent” to a legally marketed “predicate” device with respect to indications for use, technology and safety and effectiveness. Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence. The PMA pathway requires an applicant to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device based, in part, on extensive data, including but not limited to preclinical, clinical trial, and manufacturing data, as well as device labeling data. The PMA process is typically required for devices that are deemed to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices. In certain limited circumstances, FDA marketing authorization may be obtained via a de novo petition. Any of these regulatory processes can be expensive and lengthy and may require the payment of significant fees. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to 12 months, but may last longer. The process of obtaining a de novo classification or PMA approval is much more costly and uncertain. PMA approval generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the application is submitted to the FDA until approval. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time-consuming, and we may not be able to obtain these clearances or approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Our currently commercialized products have either received premarket clearance under Section 510(k) of the FDCA or are exempt from FDA clearance or approval. For example, we have received 510(k) clearance for a focused ultrasound system for aesthetic use. Per FDA regulations, the scope of marketing claims we can make about the cleared device is limited to the indications that were previously 510(k)-cleared. If the FDA determines that any of our marketing claims exceed the cleared indications, we may be subject to enforcement action, and/or be required to cease making the challenged marketing claims, issue corrective communications, pay fines or stop selling products until the incorrect claims have been corrected. As another example, under the FDCA, with the exception of color additives, cosmetic products and ingredients do not require FDA approval before they go on the market. Companies and individuals who market cosmetics have the legal responsibility to ensure the safety of their products. Our topical skin brightening products are marketed in the U.S. without an FDA-approved marketing application, and we believe that these products are not currently subject to FDA pre-market approval because they are classified as cosmetics and are generally regarded as safe and effective. However, FDA regulations limit the type of marketing claims we can make about our topical skin brightening products. If the FDA determines that any of our marketing claims are false or misleading, or suggest a clinical benefit that is not supported in the studies we have done, we may be required to cease making the challenged marketing claims, issue corrective communications, pay fines or stop selling products until the objectionable claims have been corrected. If the FDA determines that a cosmetic is not safe, the FDA may ask a federal court to issue an injunction, request that U.S. marshals seize the products, initiate criminal action, refuse entry of an imported cosmetic, or request that a company recall the relevant product. 12 We may be unable to obtain or maintain international regulatory qualifications or approvals or CE Certificates of Conformity for our current or future products, for product modifications or enhancements, or for changes to our products’ intended purposes, which could harm our business. Sales of our products outside the U.S. are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country, and such regulatory requirements have been changing and increasing in some countries. For example, medical device regulations in China have become more demanding, including a recent requirement for software validation documentation. Complying with international regulatory requirements can be an expensive and time-consuming process and obtaining regulatory clearance, approvals or CE Certificates of Conformity is not certain. The time required to obtain foreign regulatory clearance, approvals or CE Certificates of Conformity may be longer than that required for FDA clearance or approvals, and related requirements may significantly differ from FDA requirements. Although we have affixed the CE mark to our products in the European Economic Area (EEA) and obtained regulatory approvals in other countries outside the U.S., we may be unable to maintain regulatory qualifications, clearances, approvals or CE Certificates of Conformity in these countries or to obtain approvals in other countries. We also may incur significant costs in attempting to obtain, renew, or modify foreign regulatory approvals, qualifications or CE Certificates of Conformity. If we experience difficulties in receiving, maintaining, renewing or modifying necessary qualifications, clearances, approvals or CE Certificates of Conformity to market our products outside the U.S., or if we fail to receive, renew, modify or maintain those qualifications, clearances, approvals or CE Certificates of Conformity, we may be unable to market our products or enhancements in certain international markets effectively, or at all. Modifications to our products may require new 510(k) clearances, premarket approvals or new or amended CE Certificates of Conformity, and may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until clearances, approvals or the relevant CE Certificates of Conformity are obtained. Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design, or manufacture, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a PMA. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review such determinations and may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary. We have modified some of our 510(k)-cleared products, and have determined based on our review of the applicable FDA guidance that in certain instances new 510(k) clearances or PMAs are not required. If the FDA disagrees with our determination and requires us to submit new 510(k)s or PMAs for modifications to our previously cleared products for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified products until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. In the EEA, we must inform the Notified Body that carried out the conformity assessment of the medical devices that we market or sell in the EEA of any planned substantial changes to our quality system or substantial changes to our medical devices that could affect compliance with the Essential Requirements laid down in Annex I to the Medical Devices Directive or cause a substantial change to the intended use for which the device has been CE marked. The Notified Body will then assess the planned changes and verify whether they affect the products’ ongoing conformity with the Medical Devices Directive. If the assessment is favorable, the Notified Body will issue a new CE Certificate of Conformity or an addendum to the existing certificate attesting compliance with the Essential Requirements and quality system requirements laid down in the Annexes to the Medical Devices Directive. 13 Consistent with regulatory requirements, we often seek FDA clearance and conformity assessment review by our Notified Body for additional indications for use. Clinical trials in support of such clearances and submissions for conformity assessment by our Notified Body may be costly and time-consuming. In the event that we do not obtain additional FDA clearances or a CE Certificate of Conformity from our Notified Body, our ability to market products in the U.S. and in the EEA and revenue derived therefrom may be adversely affected. Medical devices subject to premarket review may be marketed only for the indications for which they are approved, cleared, or assessed, and if we are found to be marketing our products for off-label or non-approved uses we might be subject to FDA and other competent authorities' enforcement action or have other resulting liability. In addition, if the FDA or the competent authorities in the EEA countries determine that our promotional materials or training constitute promotion of a use which is unapproved or not covered by the CE mark, they could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, an injunction, product seizures, civil fines, criminal penalties or import detention. Clinical trials may be necessary to support a 510(k) notice or CE Certificate of Conformity. Such trials may require the enrollment of large numbers of patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. Delays or failures in our clinical trials may prevent us from commercializing modified or new products and may adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. Initiating and completing the clinical trials necessary to support our current and future products will be time consuming and expensive and the outcome of any such clinical trials is uncertain. Moreover, the results of early clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, and any product we advance into clinical trials may not have favorable results in later clinical trials. Conducting successful clinical studies will require the enrollment of large numbers of patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. Patient enrollment in clinical trials and completion of patient participation and follow-up depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the attractiveness of, or the discomforts and risks associated with, the treatments received by enrolled subjects, the availability of appropriate clinical trial investigators and support staff, the proximity of patients to clinical trial sites, the availability of patients meeting the eligibility and exclusion criteria for participation in the clinical trial and patient compliance with the trial protocol. For example, patients may be discouraged from enrolling in our clinical trials if the trial protocol requires them to undergo extensive post-treatment procedures or follow-up to assess the performance of our products, or if they determine that the treatments received under the trial protocols are not attractive or involve unacceptable risks or discomforts. Patients may also not participate in our clinical trials if they choose to participate in contemporaneous clinical trials of competitive products. In addition, patients participating in clinical trials may die before completion of the trial or suffer adverse medical events unrelated to the products being tested. Development of sufficient and appropriate clinical protocols to demonstrate safety and efficacy profiles of a device is required and we may not adequately develop such protocols to support clearance approval, or the CE mark of our products, as applicable. Further, the FDA, foreign competent authorities, or our Notified Body may require us to submit data on a greater number of patients than we originally anticipate and/or for a longer follow-up period, or may change the data collection requirements or data analysis applicable to our clinical trials. Delays in patient enrollment or failure of patients to continue to participate in a clinical trial may cause an increase in costs and delays in the regulatory clearance process for the approval, clearance or CE mark of our products or attempted commercialization of our products or may result in the failure of the clinical trial. In addition, despite considerable time and expense invested in our clinical trials, the FDA, foreign competent authorities, or our Notified Body may not consider our data adequate to support regulatory clearance, approval, or the CE mark of our products, as applicable. Such increased costs and delays or failures to complete our clinical trials or obtain the results we expect could adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. 14 If the third parties on which we rely to conduct our clinical trials and to assist us with pre-clinical development do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory clearance, approval, or CE Certificates of Conformity for or commercialize our products. We do not have the ability to independently conduct all of our pre-clinical and clinical trials for our products without the participation of third parties. We must rely on third parties such as medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract research organizations and contract laboratories to conduct such trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if these third parties need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to a failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our pre-clinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated. Furthermore, our third party clinical trial investigators may be delayed in conducting our clinical trials for reasons outside of their control. In the event of such extensions, delays, suspensions or terminations, we may not be able to obtain regulatory clearance, approval and CE Certificates of Conformity for, or successfully commercialize, our products on a timely basis, if at all, and our business, operating results and prospects may be adversely affected. The results of our clinical trials may not support our product claims or may result in the discovery of adverse side effects. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our product claims or that the FDA, other regulatory authorities, or our Notified Body will agree with our conclusions regarding such trials. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our products are safe and effective for the proposed indicated uses, or patients enrolled in the clinical trials may experience unanticipated adverse side effects, either of which could cause us to abandon or delay further development of a proposed product and may delay the development of other products. Furthermore, any delay or termination of our clinical trials will delay the filing of our product submissions to the relevant regulatory authorities or to our Notified Body and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize such product and generate revenues. Delays in our ability to commercialize our products or the abandonment of proposed product lines in response to clinical trial results could adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. Even after clearance or approval for our products is obtained, we and our subcontractors are subject to extensive post-market regulation by the FDA, foreign competent authorities, and our Notified Body. Our failure to meet strict regulatory requirements could result in our being required to stop sales of our products, conduct voluntary or mandatory product recalls, pay fines, incur other costs or even close our facilities. Even after a device is cleared, approved, or CE marked, there are significant post-market regulations with which we must comply. For example, we are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which covers the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage, shipping, installation, distribution and servicing of our marketed products, as well as applicable laser performance standards. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic announced and unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities. Any failure by us or our subcontractors to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection or to comply with applicable laser performance standards could result in enforcement actions against us or our subcontractors. 15 Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, including unanticipated adverse events, adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or manufacturing problems, may result in changes to labeling, restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recalls, a requirement to repair, replace or refund the cost of any medical device that we manufacture or distribute, fines, suspension variation or withdrawals of regulatory approvals, or CE Certificates of Conformity, import refusals, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil, administrative or criminal penalties, each of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. In the EEA, we are also required to demonstrate compliance with similar quality system requirements which are laid down in the relevant Annexes to the Medical Devices Directive. Such compliance can be supported by, among other things, a certificate of compliance with ISO 13485:2003. Demonstration of compliance with the ISO 13485:2003 standard permits manufacturers to benefit from a presumption of conformity with the corresponding quality system requirements laid down in such Annexes to Medical Devices Directive. Failure to comply with such standards could adversely impact our business. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities, such as the authorities of the EEA countries, also have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. Moreover, notified bodies have the power to suspend, vary or withdraw our CE Certificates of Conformity in such circumstances. Manufacturers may, on their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, component failures, manufacturing errors, or other problems with design or labeling. Any future recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition, which could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers’ demands. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. Further, under the FDA’s regulations, we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which our product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. In the EEA, we must comply with the EU Medical Device Vigilance System. Under this system, incidents must be reported to the relevant authorities of the EEA countries, and manufacturers are required to take Field Safety Corrective Actions, or FSCAs, to reduce a risk of death or serious deterioration in the state of health associated with the use of a medical device that is already placed on the market. An incident is defined as any malfunction or deterioration in the characteristics and/or performance of a device, as well as any inadequacy in the labeling or instructions for use or an unanticipated adverse reaction or side effect which, directly or indirectly, might lead to or might have led to the death of a patient, user or other person or to a serious deterioration in their health. An FSCA may include the recall, modification, exchange, destruction or retrofitting of the device. FSCAs must be communicated by the manufacturer or its legal representative to its customers and/or to the end users of the device through Field Safety Notices. Repeated product malfunctions may result in a voluntary or involuntary product recall, which could divert managerial and financial resources, impair our ability to manufacture our products in a cost-effective and timely manner and have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. 16 U.S. legislative or FDA regulatory reforms and EEA legislative regulations may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory approval of our new and modified products and to manufacture, market and distribute our products after approval is obtained. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in the U.S. Congress and EEA legislative bodies to revise the process for regulatory approval, manufacture and marketing of regulated products or the reimbursement thereof. On September 26, 2012, the European Commission adopted a package of legislative proposals designed to replace the existing regulatory framework for medical devices in the EEA. On October 13, 2015, discussions between the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers started with the aim of agreeing to the final text of such regulatory reform. Depending on the outcome of the negotiations, revised regulation of medical devices could be adopted as early as summer of 2016. If and when adopted, the new legislation may prevent or delay the CE marking of our products under development or impact our ability to modify our currently CE marked products to ensure compliance with such regulations on a timely basis. In addition, FDA and EEA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA and the competent authorities of the EEA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of future products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or if regulations, guidance or interpretations will change, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. New regulations may limit our ability to sell to non-physicians. We sell our products to physicians and “qualified practitioners” and, outside the U.S., also to aestheticians. International regulations could change at any time, disallowing sales of our products to aestheticians and other non-physician providers, and limiting the ability of aestheticians and non-physicians to operate our products. We cannot predict the impact or effect of changes in U.S., state or international laws or regulations. Regulations related to “conflict minerals” may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. Regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, require certain disclosure by public companies that use specified minerals (tin, tantalum, gold and tungsten), known as conflict minerals, in their products. The rules require companies to annually perform due diligence (and report on the results of such due diligence) regarding whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country ("Covered Countries"), with substantial supply chain verification requirements in the event that the minerals come from, or could have come from, the Covered Countries. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in components manufactured by third parties through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In 2015, we reported on Form SD that the results of our due diligence were inconclusive and, accordingly, we were unable to determine with a reasonable degree of certainty that the conflict minerals contained in our products did not originate in the Covered Countries or are from recycled or scrap sources. 17 A portion of our product sales are made through independent distributors and sales agents whom we do not control. A portion of our product sales are made through independent sales representatives and distributors. Because independent distributors often controls customer relationships (and, in certain countries outside the U.S., the regulatory relationship), there is a risk that if our relationship with a distributor ends, our relationship with end customers associated with the relevant distributor (or our relationship with regulators, as applicable) will be lost. Also, because we do not control a distributor's field sales agents, there is a risk we will be unable to ensure that our sales processes, compliance and other priorities will be consistently communicated and executed by the distributor. If we fail to maintain relationships with our key distributors, or fail to ensure that our distributors adhere to our sales processes, compliance and other priorities, this could have an adverse effect on our operations. For example, during the third quarter of 2015, our CoolTouch subsidiary lost a major OEM distribution contract due an unforeseen change in ownership of the distributor, which adversely impacted our revenue for the quarter. Because many of the users of our products may lack training, and because we also sell our products to non-physicians, our products may be misused, which could harm our reputation and our business. In the U.S., federal regulations allow us to sell our products to, or on the order of, “qualified practitioners.” The definition of “qualified practitioners” varies from state to state. As a result, depending on state law, our products may be purchased or operated by physicians or other qualified practitioners, including nurse practitioners, chiropractors and technicians. Outside the U.S., many jurisdictions do not require specific qualifications or training for purchasers or operators of our products. Although we provide training as part of our post-sales services, we do not supervise the procedures performed with our products, and we have no way to confirm that adequate supervision occurs. The lack of required training and the purchase and use of our products by non-physicians may result in product misuse and adverse treatment outcomes, which could harm our reputation and expose us to product liability claims and costly product liability litigation. Product liability suits could be brought against us due to defective material or design, incorrect product descriptions, claims or labeling, or due to misuse of our products, and could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages and an increase in our insurance rates. If our products are defectively designed, manufactured or labeled, contain defective components or incorrect product descriptions, claims or labeling or are misused, we may become subject to substantial and costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Misusing our products or failing to adhere to operating guidelines could cause significant eye and skin damage, as well as underlying tissue or organ damage. In addition, if our operating guidelines are found to be inadequate, we may be subject to liability. Since inception, we have been involved, and may in the future be involved, in a number of disputes or legal claims between our customers and their patients related to the use, functionality, and efficacy of our products. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us. We may not be able to obtain insurance in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. Product liability claims in excess of our existing insurance coverage would be paid out of cash reserves, harming our financial condition and reducing our operating results. Any product liability claims brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing continued coverage, harm our reputation in the industry and reduce product sales. In addition, product liability claims could increase our product liability insurance rates. Components used in our products are complex in design and defects may not be discovered prior to shipment to customers, which could result in increased warranty and service obligations, reducing our revenue and increasing our costs. In manufacturing our products, we and our subcontractors depend upon third-party suppliers for various components. Many of these components require a significant degree of technical expertise to produce. If our suppliers fail to produce components to specification, or if the suppliers, our subcontractors, or we use defective materials or workmanship in the manufacturing process, the reliability and performance of our products will be compromised. 18 If our products contain defects that cannot be easily and inexpensively identified and repaired, we may experience: · loss of customer orders and delay in order fulfillment; · damage to our brand reputation; · increased cost of our warranty program due to product repair or replacement; · inability to attract new customers; · diversion of resources from our manufacturing and research and development departments into our service department; · product recalls; and · legal actions. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing could materially harm our business. We forecast sales to determine requirements for our products and, if our forecasts are incorrect, we may experience shipment delays and the inability to meet demand, or increased costs and surplus inventory. We and our subcontractors keep limited materials and components on hand. To assist in management of manufacturing operations and in order to minimize inventory costs, we forecast anticipated product sales to predict our inventory needs up to six months in advance and enter into purchase orders on the basis of these requirements, subject to limitations on the lead time of our product components and items with long lead times.. We also accept safety stock of long lead time items in addition to the usual lead time. If our business expands more than anticipated, our demand would increase, and we and our suppliers may be unable to meet our demand. If we overestimate our requirements, we and our subcontractors will have excess inventory, increasing our costs. If we underestimate our requirements, we and our subcontractors may have inadequate components and materials inventory, which could interrupt, delay or prevent delivery of our products to our customers. Any of these occurrences would negatively affect our financial performance and the level of satisfaction our customers have with our business. The expense and potential unavailability of insurance coverage for our customers could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and negatively impact our financial condition. Some of our customers and prospective customers have had difficulty in procuring or maintaining liability insurance to cover their operation and use of our products. Medical malpractice carriers are withdrawing coverage in certain jurisdictions or substantially increasing premiums. If this trend continues or worsens, our customers may discontinue using our products and, industry-wide, potential customers may opt against purchasing laser and other light-based products due to the cost of or inability to procure insurance coverage. 19 Were we to lose our status as a foreign private issuer under the rules and regulations of the SEC, the costs incurred and management time required in fulfilling the additional regulatory requirements of a U.S. domestic company could be substantial. As a foreign private issuer we are exempt from certain rules under the Exchange Act, including the proxy rules, which impose certain disclosure and procedural requirements for proxy solicitations. Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies with securities registered under the Exchange Act. In addition, we are not required to comply with Regulation FD, which imposes certain restrictions on the selective disclosure of material information. In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act related to purchases and sales of our ordinary shares. If we lose our status as a foreign private issuer, we will no longer be exempt from such rules and, among other things, will be required to file periodic reports and financial statements as if we were a company incorporated in the U.S. The costs incurred and management time required in fulfilling these additional regulatory requirements could be substantial. The failure to attract and retain key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success also depends in large part on our ability to continue to attract, retain, develop and motivate highly skilled technical and professional personnel. Competition for certain employees, particularly sales representatives and development engineers, is intense. We may be unable to continue to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees. Our inability to attract and retain additional key employees or the loss of one or more of our current key employees could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruptions of financial markets could negatively impact our results of operations. Our results of operations are affected by the level of business activity of our customers, which in turn is affected by global economic conditions and market factors impacting the industries and markets that they serve. Decreased demand by our customers or their patients for our products and services can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or low levels of economic growth, and certain global economies and markets continue to experience significant uncertainty and volatility. In addition, tax rates can influence demand for our products. Adverse economic conditions or lack of liquidity in various markets may adversely affect our revenues and operating results. For example, we believe that global economic instability and uncertainty in the last two quarters of 2015 had an adverse effect on our results of operations in EMEA, although we are unable to quantify its effect on our financial results. Were such instability and uncertainty to occur globally or in certain regions or countries, our customers (and their patients) and suppliers may experience financial difficulties or be unable to obtain financing to fund their operations, which may adversely impact their ability or decisions to purchase our products or to pay for our products that they do purchase on a timely basis, if at all. Such economic instability may have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. In various jurisdictions in which we operate, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We have entered into non-competition arrangements with substantially all of our professional employees. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a limited period following the expiration of their employment with us. In various jurisdictions in which we operate, we may be unable to enforce these agreements, in whole or in part, and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from obtaining the expertise that our former employees gained while working for us. For example, Israeli courts have required former employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings to demonstrate, among others, that employment by a competitor would result in damage that would threaten the existence of such former employer, that the employee received special compensation in return for such employee's non-compete undertaking, or that the employee action is based on material lack of good faith and use of commercial secrets of the employee's former employer. If we are unable to enforce these non-competition agreements, in whole or in part, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees, which could harm our business. 20 Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel Political, economic and military instability in Israel may impede our ability to operate and harm our financial results. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal executive offices and research and development facilities are located in Israel. In addition, all of the subcontractors for our Syneron product line are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. The Israeli economy has suffered in the past and may suffer in the future from instability, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If economic conditions deteriorate in Israel, it may adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. In addition, since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any hostilities involving Israel, or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, could affect adversely our operations. Ongoing and revived hostilities or other Israeli political or economic factors could harm our operations and product development and cause our sales to decrease. Furthermore, several countries restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may seriously limit our ability to sell our products in these countries. Shareholders may have difficulties enforcing a U.S. judgment against us and/or our executive officers and directors or asserting U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. A significant portion of our assets and the assets of our directors and executive officers are located outside the U.S. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us or our directors and executive officers in the U.S., including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the U.S. and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. Further, if a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it will be payable in Israeli currency. It also may be difficult for shareholders to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Our operations may be disrupted by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Many of our employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of our other employees due to reserve duty. Any disruption in our operations may harm our business. The tax benefits available to us require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs and taxes. We have generated income and are able to take advantage of tax incentives and reductions in corporate taxes resulting from the “Approved Enterprise” and “Privileged Enterprise” statuses of our facilities in Israel. To remain eligible for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions. If we fail to meet these conditions in the future, the tax benefits would be canceled and we could be required to refund any tax benefits we might have already received. In addition, these tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits may increase our tax expenses in the future, which would reduce our expected net profits or increase our net losses. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel, for example by future acquisitions, such increased activities generally will not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. 21 We may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to fully realize our deferred tax asset, which would also have to be reduced if income tax rates are lowered. As of December 31, 2015, we have recognized a net deferred tax asset balance of $20.4 million. If we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income, we will not be able to fully realize the recorded amount of the net deferred tax asset. If we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income prior to the expiration of our net operating losses (NOL), the NOLs would expire unused. The Company’s projections of future taxable income required to fully realize the recorded amount of the net deferred tax asset reflect numerous assumptions about our operating businesses and investments, and are subject to change as conditions change specific to our business units, investments or macroeconomics conditions that may cause the Company to not meet its projections. Changes that are adverse to the Company could result in the need to increase the deferred tax asset valuation allowance, resulting in a charge to results of operations and a decrease to total stockholders’ equity. In addition, if income tax rates are lowered, the Company would be required to reduce its net deferred tax asset with a corresponding reduction to earnings during the period. Provisions of our articles of association and Israeli law may delay, prevent or make it difficult to acquire us, which could prevent a change of control and negatively affect the price of our ordinary shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders, and other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Our articles of association also contain provisions that may make it more difficult to acquire our company, such as a classified board structure. In addition, the transfer of our technology funded by the Israeli Office of Chief Scientist (including by acquisition) is subject to certain restrictions and approvals of the Office of the Chief Scientist, which provided grants for the development of certain of our technology. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. See Item 10.B. “Additional Information – Memorandum and Articles of Association” for additional discussion about some anti-takeover effects of Israeli law. These provisions of Israeli law and our articles of association may delay, complicate or prevent our acquisition, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our articles of association and by the Israeli Companies Law, 5759-1999, or the Companies Law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, pursuant to the Companies Law, each shareholder of an Israeli company must act in good faith and in a customary manner in exercising his or her rights and in fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his or her power in the company, including, among other things, voting at the general meeting of shareholders and class meetings regarding amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and approval of transactions and acts requiring shareholders’ approval under the Companies Law. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that he/she possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or officer in the company, or has other powers toward the company, has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness, and there is currently little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. 22 We are subject to various tax audits in multiple countries, the results of which could adversely affect our financial condition. We operate our business in a number of countries, and we attempt to utilize an efficient operating model to optimize our tax payments based on the tax laws of the countries in which we operate. From time to time, there may be differences of interpretation of applicable tax laws between us and the relevant tax authorities in the countries in which we operate due to tax positions that we have taken. Not all of our tax returns are final and may be subject to further audit and assessment by applicable tax authorities. There can be no assurance that the applicable tax authorities will accept our tax positions, and if they do not, we may be required to pay additional taxes, as a result of which, our future results may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares The price of our ordinary shares has fluctuated substantially, and we expect will continue to do so. The market price for our ordinary shares, which has been, and may continue to be, volatile, is affected by a number of factors, including: · the gain or loss of significant orders or customers; · recruitment or departure of key personnel; · the announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors; · possible delays in market acceptance of our new products; · potential increases in the level and intensity of price competition between our competitors and us; · announcements regarding clearance or non-clearance of regulatory approval; · quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; · material litigation in which we are involved; · changes in earnings estimates, investors’ perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts’ earnings estimates; · developments in our industry; · absence of significant product backlogs; · effectiveness in our manufacturing processes and other operations; · fluctuations in revenues due to, among other factors, the performance of our direct sales force, distribution channels, service providers, or customer support organizations, as well as changes in collection cycles for accounts receivable; · timing of any acquisitions and related costs; · increase in sales of our consumable offerings and recurring revenues paid to us by our customers as a result of the growth in patient treatments; and · general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. 23 The stock prices of many companies in the medical device industry have experienced wide fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. These factors and price fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. We have not paid dividends in the past and there are no assurances that any dividends will be paid in the future so any return on investment may be limited to the value of our ordinary shares. We have never paid cash dividends on our ordinary shares. There are no assurances that any dividends will be paid in the future. The declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors, and will depend on our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. In any case, under the Companies law we may only pay dividends in any fiscal year out of “profits,” as defined by the Companies Law and provided that the distribution is not reasonably expected to impair our ability to fulfill our outstanding and expected obligations. In addition, Israeli law may subject such payments to Israeli withholding taxes. If we do not pay dividends, our ordinary shares may be less valuable because a return on a shareholder's investment will only occur if our share price appreciates. U.S. investors in our company could suffer adverse tax consequences if we were to be characterized as a passive foreign investment company If, for any taxable year, our passive income or our assets that produce passive income exceed levels provided by law, we generally would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we are characterized as a PFIC, our U.S shareholders could suffer adverse U.S. tax consequences, including increased tax liability upon the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or upon the receipt of amounts treated as “excess distributions.” For a discussion of how we might be characterized as a PFIC and related tax consequences, please see Item 10.E. “Additional Information – Taxation – United States Federal Income Tax Considerations – Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations (PFIC)”. 