D. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 20-F contains certain statements that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements.” We have based these “forward-looking statements” on our current expectations and projections about future events, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual future results may differ significantly from those stated or implied in any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Recent difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the global economy materially affected our business and results of operations and may continue to harm our customers and our own ability to raise capital or debt. As widely reported, the global credit markets and financial services industry have been experiencing a period of upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. Our results of operations are materially affected by the current economic turmoil, mostly in the U.S. and Western Europe, but also elsewhere around the world. The global economic instability and uncertainty has had an adverse effect on our revenues and there can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in the global economy, credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, it may have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Similarly, our customers (including doctors and patients who purchase our products) and suppliers may experience financial difficulties or be unable to borrow money to fund their operations, which may adversely impact our customers’ ability or decisions to purchase our products or to pay for our products that they do purchase on a timely basis, if at all. Our success depends upon market acceptance of our products, our ability to develop and commercialize new products and our ability to identify new markets for our technology. We have created products that allow physicians and personal care practitioners to treat a wide variety of cosmetic and medical conditions including hair removal on all skin types, skin rejuvenation skin resurfacing and wrinkle reduction, vascular lesions such as rosacea, facial spider veins, leg veins, port wine stains, angiomas and hemangiomas, tattoo removal, skin resurfacing scars, stretch marks and warts, removal of benign pigmented lesions such as sun spots, age spots, freckles, and Nevus of Ota/Ito, acne and acne scars, sebaceous hyperplasia, pseudofolliculitis barbae (beard bumps or PFB), psoriasis, treatment for the temporary reduction in the appearance of cellulite, reduction in thigh circumference and fat removal. Our failure to continue to penetrate current market and significantly penetrate new markets with our existing products and manage the manufacturing and distribution of multiple products could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our products depends on continued acceptance of our proprietary Electro-Optical Synergy, or ELOS ™ technology and the adoption and acceptance of other technologies that we develop or acquire. The rate of adoption and acceptance may be affected adversely by actual or perceived issues relating to quality, reliability and safety, customers’ reluctance to invest in new technologies, and widespread acceptance of other technologies. Our business strategy is based, in part, on our expectation that we will continue to make novel product introductions and upgrades or acquire new products that we can sell to new and existing users of our products and that we will be able to identify new markets for our products. 3 To increase our revenues, we must: · develop or acquire new products that either add to or significantly improve our current products; · convince our target customers that our products or product upgrades would be an attractive revenue-generating addition to their practices; · sell our products to customers which have traditionally not engaged in aesthetics procedures, including primary care physicians, obstetricians, ear, nose and throat specialists, other specialists and non-medical professionals; · identify new markets and emerging technological trends in our target markets and react effectively to technological changes; and · maintain effective sales and marketing strategies. We may be unable, however, to continue to develop new upgrades, products and technologies at the rate we expect, or at all, which could adversely affect our expected growth rate. In addition, the market for aesthetic devices is highly competitive and dynamic, and marked by rapid and substantial technological development and product innovations. To be successful, we must be responsive to new technological developments and new applications of existing technologies. Demand for our products could be diminished by equivalent or superior products and technologies offered by competitors. Our financial results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Demand for our products varies from quarter to quarter, and these variations may cause revenue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. As a result, it is difficult for us to accurately predict sales for subsequent periods. In addition, we base our production, inventory and operating expenditure levels on anticipated orders. If orders are not received when expected in any given quarter, expenditure levels could be disproportionately high in relation to revenue for that quarter. A number of additional factors, over which we have limited control, may contribute to fluctuations in our financial results, including: · the willingness of individuals to pay directly for aesthetic medical procedures, in light of the lack of reimbursement by third-party payors; · availability of attractive equipment financing terms for our customers, which may be negatively influenced by interest rate increases and the current economic climate; · changes in our ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals; · increases in the length of our sales cycle; · performance of our direct sales force and independent distributors; and · delays in, or failure of, product and component deliveries by our subcontractors and suppliers. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed. Our success and ability to compete depends in large part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology. As of March 6, 2011, our patent portfolio consisted of 40 issued U.S. patents, and 89 patent applications pending in the U.S. (with an additional 123 applications pending internationally and 60 international patents), related to 117 patent families relating to our technology and products. Our pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us. Any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or legally circumvented by third parties. We cannot be certain that our patents will be upheld as valid and enforceable or prevent the development of competitive products. Consequently, competitors could develop, manufacture and sell products that directly compete with our products, which could decrease our sales and diminish our ability to compete. In addition, competitors could purchase one of our products and attempt to replicate some or all of the competitive advantages we derive from our development efforts, design around our protected technology, or develop their own competitive technologies that fall outside of our intellectual property rights. If our intellectual property does not adequately protect us from our competitors’ products and methods, our competitive position could be adversely affected, as could our business. 4 We rely on a combination of patent and other intellectual property laws and confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of inventions agreements, as appropriate, with our employees, consultants and customers, to protect and otherwise seek to control access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information. These measures may not be adequate to protect our technology from unauthorized disclosure, third-party infringement or misappropriation. We also rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. However, these parties may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Also, others may learn of our trade secrets through a variety of methods. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. or Israel. Existing and future third-party claims of infringement or other claims against us could require us to redesign our products, seek licenses, or engage in future costly intellectual property litigation, which could impact our future business and financial performance. Third parties have claimed, and may from time to time claim, that our current or future products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights, and seek to prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use, sell or import our products. Patent applications are latent for the first eighteen months following their filing and cannot be discovered until such patents applications are published. Accordingly, we can conduct only limited searches to determine whether our technology infringes any patents or patent applications of others. Infringement claims in the past, have, among other things, led to license agreements pursuant to which we were required to pay license fees to third party claimants. Our subsidiary, Syneron Inc., and our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, Candela Corporation (Candela), are each currently defending separate patent infringement lawsuits brought by Palomar Medical Technologies, Inc. (Palomar) alleging willful infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 5,595,568 (the ’568 Patent) and 5,735,844 (the ’844 Patent) by Syneron Inc.’s and Candela’s hair removal products, respectively. The ’568 and ’844 Patents were subject to reexaminations by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO), and both the Candela action and the Syneron Inc. action were stayed pending completion of the reexaminations. The PTO issued Reexamination Certificates with respect to the ’568 and ’844 Patents, and the stay was lifted in the Syneron Inc. case on November 13, 2009, and in the Candela case on January 5, 2010. Palomar has dropped the ’568 Patent from the Candela lawsuit, and has elected to proceed solely on the ’844 Patent. In the Candela case, on August 12, 2010, Candela filed a motion for summary judgment of non-infringement with respect to all of the asserted claims and of invalidity with respect to two of the asserted claims. A hearing on the motion was held on September 14, 2010. The court has not yet ruled on the motion, and no trial date has been set. In the Syneron Inc. case, claim construction briefing occurred in September and October 2010, and a claim construction hearing was held on November 17, 2010. The court has not yet issued its claim construction decision. No trial date has been set. While Syneron Inc. and Candela each intend to vigorously contest Palomar’s allegations, each lawsuit is inherently uncertain and unpredictable as to its ultimate outcome. An adverse outcome in Palomar’s suit against Syneron Inc. and/or Candela would materially hurt the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of Syneron Inc. and/or Candela, as applicable. 5 We may also become involved in intellectual property litigation in the future. Although we may try to resolve any potential future claims or actions as we have, from time to time, in the past, we may not be able to do so on reasonable terms, if at all. Following a successful third-party action for infringement, we may be required to pay substantial damages and if we cannot obtain a license or redesign our products, we may have to stop manufacturing, selling and marketing our products, and our business could significantly suffer as a result. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate, and could divert management’s attention from our core business. If we lose this kind of litigation, a court could require us to pay substantial damages, and prohibit us from using and selling technologies essential to our products. Any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we do not know whether necessary licenses would be available to us on satisfactory terms, or whether we could redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement. We may become involved in litigation to protect the trademark rights associated with our company name or the names of our products. In addition, names we choose for our products may be claimed to infringe names held by others. If we have to change the name of our products, we may experience a loss in goodwill associated with our brand name, customer confusion and a loss of sales. We may also become involved in litigation not only as a result of alleged infringement of a third-party’s intellectual property rights, but also to protect our own intellectual property rights, which would divert our management’s attention from our core business and may be expensive and time consuming to litigate. Please see Item 8, “Financial Information – Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information” for further details regarding legal proceeding and the risk arising under those proceedings. If we are not successful in coordinating our business with that of our subsidiaries, including Candela Corporation, and in establishing efficient arrangements and agreements with such subsidiaries, then the benefits of the merger with Candela and the other acquisitions that we completed in the last few years will not be fully realized and our business and the market price of our ordinary shares may be negatively affected. In the last three years we have acquired various companies. Prior to their acquisition, each of these companies operated independently with standalone principal offices in several locations. We entered into these acquisitions with the expectation that they will result in benefits arising out of the coordination and arrangements between the target companies. The difficulties of coordinating the operations of the businesses include, among others: · coordinating geographically separate organizations; · addressing inconsistencies between the subsidiaries in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect either company’s ability to maintain relationships with licensors, collaborators, partners, suppliers, customers and employees; · consolidating the subsidiaries’ business into our financial reporting system; · implementing internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; · coordinating sales, distribution and marketing functions; and · cultural differences. 6 As a result of these and other factors, we may not successfully coordinate our business with that of our subsidiaries or establish efficient arrangements and agreements with them in a timely manner, or at all, and we may not realize the benefits and synergies of these acquisitions to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated. It is also possible that such coordination and arrangements could lead to the loss of key employees, diversion of the attention of our management, or the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in our or the subsidiaries’ ongoing business. Any of these possible outcomes can affect our ability to maintain our research and development, supply, distribution, marketing, customer and other relationships and affect our business and financial results following the merger. The occurrence of such negative results could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. In addition, we incurred and we expect to continue to incur significant costs and commit significant management time in coordinating our subsidiaries’ business operations, technology, development programs, products and personnel with our business. If we will not successfully coordinate our business with that of our subsidiaries, the expenditure of these costs will reduce our cash position. We compete against companies that also have established products and significant resources, which may prevent us from maintaining and increasing market share or maintaining or improving operating results. Our products compete against products offered by public companies, including Cutera, Inc., Cynosure, Inc., Solta Medical, Inc., Lumenis Ltd., UltraShape Ltd. and Palomar Medical Technologies, Inc., as well as by private companies such as Sciton, Inc., Alma Lasers Ltd., and several other smaller specialized companies. Competition with these companies could result in reduced prices and profit margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also face competition from medical products, including Botox and collagen injections, and aesthetic procedures, such as sclerotherapy, electrolysis chemical peels and microdermabrasion, that are unrelated to radio frequency and light or laser-based technologies. We also may face competition from manufacturers of pharmaceutical and other products that have not yet been developed. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to distinguish our company and our products from our competitors and their products, and includes the following factors: · product performance; · product pricing; · intellectual property protection; · quality of customer support; · success and timing of new product development and introductions; and · development of successful distribution channels. Some of our competitors have well established products and customer relationships, which could inhibit our market penetration efforts. Potential customers also may need to recoup the cost of expensive products that they already have purchased from our competitors and may decide not to purchase our products, or to delay such purchases. If we are unable to achieve continued market penetration, we will be unable to compete effectively and our business will be harmed. In addition, some of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, research and development, manufacturing, and sales and marketing resources than we have. Our competitors could use their greater financial resources to acquire other companies, to gain enhanced name recognition and market share, as well as to develop new technologies or products that could effectively compete with our existing product lines. 7 We outsource the manufacturing of our products to a small number of manufacturing subcontractors. If our subcontractors’ operations are interrupted or if our orders exceed our subcontractors’ manufacturing capacity, we may not be able to deliver our products to customers on time. We outsource the manufacturing of our products which are manufactured under the brand name of Syneron to three subcontractors located in Israel. Our subsidiaries also outsource the manufacturing of their products to various subcontractors. These subcontractors have limited manufacturing capacity that may be inadequate if our customers place orders for unexpectedly large quantities of our products. In addition, the subcontractors located in Israel on occasion may feel the impact of potential economic or political instability in the region. If the operations of one or more of these subcontractors were halted or limited, even temporarily, or if they were unable or unwilling to fulfill large orders, we could experience business interruption, increased costs, damage to our reputation and loss of our customers. In addition, qualifying new subcontractors could take several months, and we will face learning curve regarding the quality of the products that they manufacture. We depend upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuations, which could harm our business. Many of the components that comprise our products are currently manufactured by a limited number of suppliers. Although most of our components are obtained from at least three separate suppliers, we do not have the ability to manufacture these components ourselves. A supply interruption or an increase in demand beyond current suppliers’ capabilities could harm our ability to manufacture our products until we identify and qualify a new source of supply, which could take several months. Any interruption in the supply of components or materials, or our inability to obtain substitute components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, our indirect subsidiary, Candela, uses Alexandrite rods to manufacture the GentleMax™, GentleLASE® and the AlexTriVantage™ systems, which accounts for a significant portion of Candela’s total revenues. Candela depends exclusively on its contract manufacturer to supply these rods, for which no alternative supplier meeting its quality standards exists. We cannot be certain that Candela's contract manufacturer will be able to meet Candela's future requirements at current prices or at all. To date, Candela has been able to obtain adequate supplies of Alexandrite rods in a timely manner, but any extended interruption in its supplies could hurt its results. We sell our products in a number of countries and therefore our results of operations could suffer if we are unable to manage our international operations effectively. We are headquartered in Israel and have offices in five locations in the United States, five locations in Japan, and offices in Canada, Hong-Kong, Australia, Spain, Portugal, Germany, Italy, France and the United Kingdom. We depend on third-party distributors in territories in which we do not have offices, including in various countries in Europe, Asia, Africa and South America. We also depend on relatively new direct sales operations to sell our products in North America. Therefore, we are subject to risks associated with having worldwide operations. Substantially all of our revenues in 2008, 2009 and 2010, were generated outside of Israel, primarily in North America, Western Europe and Asia. Part of our strategy is to expand our sales in existing markets and to enter new foreign markets. Expansion of our international business will require significant management attention and financial resources. Our international sales and operations subject us to many risks inherent in international business activities, including: · foreign certification and regulatory requirements; 8 · lengthy payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; · customs clearance and shipping delays; · import and export controls; · multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures; · changes in tax and other laws; · regulatory practices and tariffs; · difficulties staffing and managing our international operations; · political instability; and · economic instability. If our international sales do not continue at the expected pace or suffer from higher challenges than expected, we will not experience our projected growth or have decreased revenue and our financial results will suffer. Exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. A majority of our revenues and a substantial portion of our expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, a portion of our revenues and a portion of our costs, including personnel and some marketing and facilities expenses, are incurred in New Israeli Shekels, Euros, Japanese Yen, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar and British Pound Sterling. Inflation in Israel or Europe or a weakening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies may have the effect of increasing the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in that jurisdiction, which may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. During 2010, the U.S. dollar depreciated against the New Israeli Shekel by approximately 6%, the U.S. dollar strengthened against the Euro by approximately 8%, and the U.S. dollar depreciated against the Japanese Yen by approximately 11%. If the New Israeli Shekel continues to strengthen in value in relation to the U.S. dollar, it will become more expensive for us to fund our operations in Israel. If the Euro depreciates against the U.S. dollar it will decrease our revenues from operations. Although we use forward contracts and options to reduce the risk associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates, we may not be able to eliminate the effects of currency fluctuations. Thus exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. As a result of the merger with Candela Corporation and the acquisition of Pharos Life Corporation, we and our subsidiaries became a larger and more geographically diverse organization, and if our respective management teams are not able to continue to manage their businesses efficiently, our and our subsidiaries', operating results will suffer. Following the merger with Candela Corporation and the acquisition of Pharos Life Corporation, we and our subsidiaries have approximately 580 employees in a total of 22 facilities around the world. As a result, our management teams are facing challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs. The inability to manage successfully our geographically diverse and substantially larger organization could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and those of our subsidiaries, and as a result, on the market price of our ordinary shares. 9 Any acquisition that we make could harm our business and hurt our financial condition. From time to time, we evaluate potential strategic acquisitions of technologies and products. We also consider entering into joint venture agreements and other collaborations. We may not be able to identify appropriate targets or strategic partners, or successfully negotiate, finance or integrate any such products or technologies. Any acquisition that we pursue could diminish our cash position and divert management’s time and attention from our core operations. If we fail to obtain and maintain necessary U.S. Food and Drug Administration clearances for our products and indications, if clearances for future products and indications are delayed or not issued, or if there are U.S. federal or state level regulatory changes, our commercial operations could be harmed. Most of our products are medical devices subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. by the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for manufacturing, labeling, sale, promotion, distribution, shipping and servicing. Before a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, an existing product can be marketed in the U.S., it must first receive either 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval, or PMA, from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. Either process can be expensive and lengthy. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes from six to eighteen months, but it can last longer. The process of obtaining a PMA is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and it generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the application is filed with the FDA. To date, none of our devices have had to be approved via PMA and we believe that very few (if any) of our currently planned products are subject to PMA by the FDA. All products that we currently market in the U.S. have received 510(k) clearance for the uses for which they are marketed or are products with minor modifications from our cleared products and are therefore covered by a Letter to File. Medical devices may be marketed only for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. We have obtained 510(k) clearance for the current treatments for which we offer our products. However, our clearances can be revoked if safety or effectiveness problems develop. Any modifications to an FDA-cleared device that would significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new 510(k) clearance or possibly PMA. We may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearances or PMAs for new products or for modifications to, or additional indications for, our existing products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearances would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our revenue and future profitability. We have made modifications to our devices in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees, and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified devices. We also are subject to Medical Device Reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Our products and/or their use are also subject to state regulations, which are, in many instances, in flux. Changes in state regulations may impede sales. We cannot predict the impact or effect of future legislation or regulations at the federal or state levels. The FDA and state authorities have broad enforcement powers. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA or state agencies, which may include any of the following sanctions: · warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; · repair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of our products; · issuing an import alert to block entry of products the FDA has reason to believe violate applicable regulatory requirements; 10 · operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; · refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to existing products; · withdrawing 510(k) clearance or PMAs approvals that have already been granted; and · criminal prosecution. If any of these events were to occur, it could harm our business. If we or our subcontractors fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation and performance standards, manufacturing operations could be halted, and our business would suffer. We and our subcontractors are required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR. The QSR is a complex compliance scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, control, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. Because our products use optical energy, including lasers, our products also are covered by a performance standard for lasers set forth in FDA regulations. The laser performance standard imposes specific record-keeping, reporting, product testing and product labeling requirements. These requirements include affixing warning labels to laser products, as well as incorporating certain safety features in the design of laser products. The FDA enforces the QSR and laser performance standards through periodic unannounced inspections. We and our subcontractors are subject to such inspections. Although we place our own quality control employee at each of our subcontractors’ facilities, we do not have complete control over our subcontractors’ compliance with these standards. Any failure by us or our subcontractors to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection or to comply with applicable laser performance standards could result in enforcement actions against us or our subcontractors, including a public warning letter, a seizure of our products, civil or criminal penalties, or other sanctions, such as those described in the preceding paragraph, which could cause our sales and business to suffer. In addition, we are subject to standards imposed on our activities outside of the U.S., such as obtaining ISO 13485:2003 certification for the quality of our systems and products and CE certification from the European authorized notify body and electrical and safety certification from authorized laboratories. Failure to comply with such standards could adversely impact our business. We may be unable to obtain or maintain international regulatory qualifications or approvals for our current or future products, which could harm our business. Sales of our products outside the U.S. are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. Complying with international regulatory requirements can be an expensive and time-consuming process and approval is not certain. The time required for obtaining clearance or approvals, if required by other countries, may be longer than that required for FDA clearance or approvals, and requirements for such clearances or approvals may significantly differ from FDA requirements. Although we have obtained regulatory approvals in the European Union and other countries outside the U.S., we may be unable to maintain regulatory qualifications, clearances or approvals in these countries or to obtain approvals in other countries. We also may incur significant costs in attempting to obtain and in maintaining foreign regulatory approvals or qualifications. If we experience delays in receiving necessary qualifications, clearances or approvals to market our products outside the U.S., or if we fail to receive those qualifications, clearances or approvals, we may be unable to market some of our products or enhancements in certain international markets effectively, or at all. New regulations may limit our ability to sell to non-physicians. We sell our products to physicians and “qualified practitioners”, outside the U.S., and to aestheticians. International regulations could change at any time, disallowing sales of our products to aestheticians, and limiting the ability of aestheticians and non-physicians to operate our products. We cannot predict the impact or effect of changes in U.S., state or international laws or regulations. 11 Because many of the users of our products are not trained, and because we also sell our products to non-physicians, our products may be misused, which could harm our reputation and our business. In the U.S., federal regulations allow us to sell our products to or on the order of “qualified practitioners.” The definition of “qualified practitioners” varies from state to state. As a result, depending on state law, our products may be purchased or operated by physicians or other qualified practitioners, including nurse practitioners, chiropractors and technicians. Outside the U.S., many jurisdictions do not require specific qualifications or training for purchasers or operators of our products. We do not supervise the procedures performed with our products, and we have no way to confirm that adequate supervision occurs. The lack of required training and the purchase and use of our products by non-physicians may result in product misuse and adverse treatment outcomes, which could harm our reputation and expose us to product liability claims and costly product liability litigation. Product liability suits could be brought against us due to defective material or design, or due to misuse of our products, and could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages and an increase in our insurance rates. If our products are defectively designed, manufactured or labeled, contain defective components or are misused, we may become subject to substantial and costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Misusing our products or failing to adhere to operating guidelines could cause significant eye and skin damage, and underlying tissue or organ damage. In addition, if our operating guidelines are found to be inadequate, we may be subject to liability. We have been involved, and may in the future be involved, in claims related to the use of our products. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us. Since inception we have been involved in a number of disputes or legal claims between our customers and their patients that involved potential product liability claims. We may not be able to obtain insurance in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. Any product liability claims brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing continuing coverage, could harm our reputation in the industry and reduce product sales. Product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage would be paid out of cash reserves harming our financial condition and reducing our operating results. Components used in our products are complex in design, and defects may not be discovered prior to shipment to customers, which could result in warranty obligations, reducing our revenue and increasing our costs. In manufacturing our products, we and our subcontractors depend upon third-party suppliers for various components. Many of these components require a significant degree of technical expertise to produce. If our suppliers fail to produce components to specification, or if the suppliers, our subcontractors, or we, use defective materials or workmanship in the manufacturing process, the reliability and performance of our products will be compromised. If our products contain defects that cannot be repaired easily and inexpensively, we may experience: · loss of customer orders and delay in order fulfillment; · damage to our brand reputation; · increased cost of our warranty program due to product repair or replacement; · inability to attract new customers; 12 · diversion of resources from our manufacturing and research and development departments into our service department; · product recalls; and · legal action. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing could materially harm our business. We forecast sales to determine requirements for our products and if our forecasts are incorrect, we may experience either shipment delays or increased costs and inventory. Our subcontractors keep limited materials and components on hand. To help them manage their manufacturing operations and minimize inventory costs, we forecast anticipated product sales to predict our inventory needs up to six months in advance and enter into purchase orders on the basis of these requirements, subject to limitations on components lead time and long lead items. We also accept three months safety stock of long lead items above lead time. If our business expands, our demand would increase and our suppliers may be unable to meet our demand. If we overestimate our requirements, our subcontractors will have excess inventory, and may transfer to us any increase in costs. If we underestimate our requirements, our subcontractors may have inadequate components and materials inventory, which could interrupt, delay or prevent delivery of our products to our customers. Any of these occurrences would negatively affect our financial performance and the level of satisfaction our customers have with our business. In order to effectively manage our collaboration with Procter & Gamble Company, we may divert the attention of key technical personnel and management from the core business. If Procter & Gamble Company terminates the agreement, our share price could fall, and we may be unable to bring a home-use skin rejuvenation device to the market. Effective February 25, 2007, we entered into a Joint Development and Supply Framework Agreement with the Procter & Gamble Company, or Procter & Gamble, for the commercialization of patented and patent pending, ELOS-based, home-use devices and compositions for the enhancement of skin appearance through the treatment of fine lines, wrinkles, age and sun spots and cellulite. Under the agreement, significant resources and the attention of key technical personnel and management were directed to the development of such devices even though such devices may not be commercialized for several years, if ever. In addition, we cannot be sure that the agreement will result in marketable products or that we will receive payments for any products developed pursuant to the agreement. As of the date hereof, we have not sold any products under the agreement. Procter & Gamble has the option under certain circumstances to terminate the agreement, including following the failure by us to successfully complete two milestones, and may exercise that option. If Procter & Gamble terminates the agreement, the price of our ordinary shares could fall significantly, and we will not receive certain royalty and other payments provided for in the agreement. If Procter & Gamble terminates the agreement, we may decide to proceed to develop and commercialize the device on our own or with a third party. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement such a decision and successfully bring this home-use device to the market. The expense and potential unavailability of insurance coverage for our customers could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and negatively impact our financial condition. Some of our customers and prospective customers have had difficulty in procuring or maintaining liability insurance to cover their operation and use of our products. Medical malpractice carriers are withdrawing coverage in certain states or substantially increasing premiums. If this trend continues or worsens, our customers may discontinue using our products and, industry-wide, potential customers may opt against purchasing laser and other light-based products due to the cost of or inability to procure insurance coverage. 13 We may fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404, which started in connection with our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires (i) management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and (ii) a statement by management that its independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting, in connection with the filing of our Annual Report on Form 20-F for each fiscal year. We have documented and tested our internal control systems and procedures in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404. While our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting resulted in our conclusion that as of December 31, 2010, our internal control over financial reporting was effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. Management assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of Candela Corporation and its subsidiaries, which is included in Syneron Medical Ltd. 2010 consolidated financial statements and constituted $ 111.2 million and $ 70.1 million of total assets and net assets, respectively, as of December 31, 2010 and $ 129.8 million and ($4.0) million of revenues and net loss, respectively, for the year then ended. We are a foreign private issuer under the rules and regulations of the SEC and thus, we are exempt from a number of rules under the Exchange Act and we are permitted to file less information with the SEC than a full reporting company. As a foreign private issuer under the Exchange Act, we are exempt from certain rules under the Exchange Act, including the proxy rules, which impose certain disclosure and procedural requirements for proxy solicitations. Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies with securities registered under the Exchange Act; and we are not required to comply with Regulation FD, which imposes certain restrictions on the selective disclosure of material information. In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules under the Exchange Act with respect to their purchases and sales of our ordinary shares. If we will lose our status as a foreign private issuer, we will no longer be exempt from such rules and, among other things, will be required to file periodic reports and financial statements as if we were a company incorporated in the U.S. The costs incurred in fulfilling these additional regulatory requirements could be substantial. The failure to attract and retain key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success also depends in large part on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled technical and professional personnel. Competition for certain employees, particularly sales representatives and development engineers, is intense. We may be unable to continue to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees. Our inability to attract and retain additional key employees or the loss of one or more of our current key employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 In various jurisdictions in which we operate, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We have entered into non-competition arrangements with all of our professional employees. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a limited period following the expiration of their employment with us. In various jurisdictions in which we operate, we may be unable to enforce these agreements, in whole or in part, and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise that our former employees gained while working for us. For example, in the past, Israeli courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of such employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or intellectual property. In addition, pursuant to Israeli courts in order to enforce the non-compete undertakings, the employer need to prove that the employee received a special consideration in return for his commitment not to compete with his employer. If we are unable to demonstrate that harm would be caused to us or otherwise enforce these non-competition agreements, in whole or in part, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees, which could harm our business. Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel Political, economic and military instability in Israel may impede our ability to operate and harm our financial results. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel and our principal executive offices and research and development facilities are located in Israel. In addition, all of the subcontractors of our products sold under the Syneron brand name are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. The Israeli economy has suffered in the past and may suffer in the future from instability, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The global economic recession, instability and uncertainty of the last two years has affected the economic conditions in Israel. If the economic deterioration in Israel continues, it may adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. In addition, since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could affect adversely our operations. Ongoing and revived hostilities or other Israeli political or economic factors could harm our operations and product development and cause our sales to decrease. Furthermore, several countries, principally those in the Middle East, still restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may seriously limit our ability to sell our products in these countries. You may have difficulties enforcing a U.S. judgment against us and/or our executive officers and directors or asserting U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. A significant portion of our assets and the assets of our directors and executive officers are located outside the U.S. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us or any of them in the U.S., including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the U.S. and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. Further, if a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it will be payable in Israeli currency. It also may be difficult for you to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. 15 Our operations may be disrupted by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Many of our employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of our other employees due to reserve duty. Any disruption in our operations may harm our business. The tax benefits available to us require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs and taxes. We have generated income and are able to take advantage of tax incentives and reductions resulting from the “Approved Enterprise” and “Privileged Enterprise” status of our facilities in Israel. To remain eligible for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions, including making specified investments in property and equipment. If we fail to meet these conditions in the future, the tax benefits would be canceled and we could be required to refund any tax benefits we might already have received. In addition, these tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at any level. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits may increase our expenses in the future, which would reduce our expected profits or increase our losses. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel, for example, by future acquisitions, our increased activities generally will not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. Under our first tax benefit plan, we have invested approximately $720,000 in fixed assets of which $223,000 were invested from paid-in capital as required by the financing condition of the approved plan. Under our next three tax benefit plans, which were approved under the amendment to the law of the Engorgement of Capital Investment 1959, we invested approximately $529,000 during 2004 and 2005 under the second plan and approximately $1,138,000 during 2006 and 2007 under the third plan and approximately $ 1,769,278during 2008 and 2009. See Item 10.E, “Taxation – Israeli Taxation – Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959” for more information about these programs. Provisions of our articles of association, our shareholders' rights plan, and Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult to acquire us, which could prevent a change of control and negatively affect the price of our ordinary shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders, and other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Our articles of association also contain provisions that may make it more difficult to acquire our company, such as classified board provisions. As noted above, the transfer of our technology (including by acquisition) is subject to certain restrictions and approvals of the Office of the Chief Scientist, which provided grants for the development of our technology. In addition, our board of directors adopted a shareholders' rights plan under which our board of directors declared a dividend of one right for each ordinary share held by shareholders of record as of the close of business on December 30, 2010. Initially, these rights are not exercisable and are traded with our ordinary shares. Under the plan, these rights will generally be exercisable only if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our ordinary shares or commences a tender or exchange offer for 15% or more of our ordinary shares, except if such person or group has become an “Acquiring Person” pursuant to an offer approved by the majority of the board of directors. If a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our ordinary shares (except if such person or group has become an “Acquiring Person” pursuant to an offer approved by the majority of the board of directors), each right will generally entitle the holder, other than the acquiring person or group, to acquire, for the exercise price of $0.01 per share (subject to adjustment as provided in the plan), one and a quarter (1.25) ordinary shares. In addition, if, after a person acquires such ownership, we engage in a merger in which we are not the survivor or our ordinary shares are changed or exchanged, or we sell or transfer more than 50% of our assets or earning power, each right will generally entitle the holder, other than the acquiring person or group, to acquire, for the exercise price of $0.01 per share (subject to adjustment as provided in the plan), one and a quarter (1.25) times the shares of the acquiring company to which each of our shareholders is entitled to for each ordinary share. Our board of directors may redeem the rights at a price of $0.0001 per right at any time up to ten days after a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our ordinary shares. The rights plan will continue in effect until January 3, 2012, unless earlier redeemed or amended by our board of directors. 16 Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. See Item 10.B, “Additional Information – Memorandum and Articles of Association.” for additional discussion about some anti-takeover effects of Israeli law. These provisions of Israeli law, our articles of association, and our shareholders’ rights plan, may delay or prevent our acquisition or make it difficult, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our articles of association and by the Israeli Companies Law, 5759-1999, or the Companies Law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, pursuant to the Companies Law each shareholder of an Israeli company has to act in good faith in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders and class meetings, on amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers, and transactions requiring shareholders’ approval under the Companies Law. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or officer in the company, or has other powers toward the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares The price of our ordinary shares has fluctuated substantially and we expect will continue to do so. The market price for our ordinary shares has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The market price for our ordinary shares has been, and we expect will continue to be, affected by a number of factors, including: · the gain or loss of significant orders or customers; · recruitment or departure of key personnel; · the announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors; · possible delays in market acceptance of our new products; · potential increases in the level and intensity of price competition between our competitors and us; · announcements regarding clearance or non-clearance of regulatory approval; 17 · quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; · announcements related to litigation; · changes in earnings estimates, investors’ perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts’ earning estimates; · developments in our industry; · absence of significant product backlogs; · our effectiveness in our manufacturing process; · unsatisfactory performance of our distribution channels, service providers, or customer support organizations; · timing of any acquisitions and related costs; and · general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. The stock prices of many companies in the medical device industry have experienced wide fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. These factors and price fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future, and any return on investment may be limited to the value of our ordinary shares. We have never paid cash dividends on our ordinary shares and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our ordinary shares will depend on our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as our board of directors may consider relevant. Furthermore, if a dividend is distributed from income attributed to an “Approved Enterprise” or a “Privileged Enterprise”, which was exempt from tax under the provisions of the Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments, the Company will be subject to tax at the applicable corporate tax rate on the amount of such dividend grossed up with such corporate tax rate. We may only pay dividends in any fiscal year out of “profits,” as defined by the Companies Law, and, provided that the distribution is not reasonably expected to impair our ability to fulfill our outstanding and expected obligations. If we do not pay dividends, our ordinary shares may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our share price appreciates. We have decided to reinvest the amount of tax exempt income derived from our “Approved Enterprise” or “Privileged Enterprise” status and not to distribute that income as dividends. U.S. investors in our company could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. If, for any taxable year, our passive income or our assets that produce passive income exceed levels provided by law, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our shareholders. If we were classified as a passive foreign investment company, a U.S. shareholder could be subject to increased tax liability upon the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or upon the receipt of amounts treated as “excess distributions.” Under these rules, any gain or excess distribution would be allocated ratably over the U.S. shareholder’s holding period for the ordinary shares, and the amount allocated to the current taxable year and any taxable year prior to the first taxable year in which we were a passive foreign investment company would be taxed as ordinary income. The amount allocated to each of the other taxable years would be subject to tax at the highest applicable ordinary income rate in effect for the applicable class of taxpayer for that year, and an interest charge for the deemed deferral benefit would be imposed on the resulting tax allocated to such other taxable years. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares as well as the specific application of the “excess distribution” and other rules discussed in this paragraph. For a discussion of how we might be characterized as a PFIC and related tax consequences, please see Item 10.E, “Additional Information – Taxation – United States Federal Income Tax Considerations – Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” 18 