D. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 20-F contains certain statements that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements.” We have based these “forward-looking statements” on our current expectations and projections about future events, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual future results may differ significantly from those stated or implied in any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Recent difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the global economy materially affected our business and results of operations and may continue to harm our ability to raise capital or debt. As widely reported, the global credit markets and financial services industry have been experiencing a period of upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. Our results of operations are materially affected by the current economic turmoil, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. The stress experienced by global capital markets substantially increased in recent quarters. The global economic instability and uncertainty has had an adverse effect on our revenues and there can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in the global economy, credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, it may have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Similarly, our customers and suppliers may experience financial difficulties or be unable to borrow money to fund their operations, which may adversely impact their ability or decision to purchase our product or to pay for our products that they do purchase on a timely basis, if at all. 2 Our success depends upon market acceptance of our products, our ability to develop and commercialize new products and our ability to identify new markets for our technology. We have created products that apply our technology to rejuvenate the skin’s appearance through the treatment of superficial benign vascular and pigmented lesions, hair removal, wrinkle reduction, the treatment of acne and leg veins, treatment for the temporary reduction in the appearance of cellulite, reduction in thigh circumference, and fat removal. We introduced our first product, the Aurora, in December 2001, and since then, have expanded our product offerings to include eleven additional product platforms: Pitanga, Polaris, Galaxy, Comet, VelaSmooth, VelaShape, eLight, eLaser, eMax, LipoLite and eMatrix. Two of these products were recently introduced, and it is difficult for us to predict the success of these recently introduced products in the long term. Our failure to significantly penetrate current or new markets with our products and manage the manufacturing and distribution of multiple products could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our products depends on adoption and acceptance of our proprietary Electro-Optical Synergy, or ELOS ™ technology and other technologies that we develop. The rate of adoption and acceptance may be affected adversely by actual or perceived issues relating to quality and safety, customers’ reluctance to invest in new technologies, and widespread acceptance of other technologies. Our business strategy is based, in part, on our expectation that we will continue to make novel product introductions and upgrades that we can sell to new and existing users of our products and that we will be able to identify new markets for our products. To increase our revenues, we must: — convince our target customers that our products or product upgrades would be an attractive revenue-generating addition to their practices; — sell our products to customers which have traditionally not engaged in aesthetics procedures, including primary care physicians, obstetricians, ear, nose and throat specialists, other specialists and non-medical professionals; — develop or acquire new products that either add to or significantly improve our current products; — identify new markets and emerging technological trends in our target markets and react effectively to technological changes; and — maintain effective sales and marketing strategies. We may be unable, however, to continue to develop new upgrades, products and technologies at the rate we expect, or at all, which could adversely affect our expected growth rate. In addition, the market for aesthetic devices is highly competitive and dynamic, and marked by rapid and substantial technological development and product innovations. Demand for our products could be diminished by equivalent or superior products and technologies offered by competitors. We may encounter difficulties in managing our growth which could limit our ability to increase sales and cash flow. In previous years, we have experienced significant growth in the scope of our operations and the number of our employees. This growth has placed significant demands on our management, as well as our financial and operational resources. In order to achieve our business objectives, we anticipate that we will need to continue to grow. Continued growth would increase the challenges involved in: — expanding our sales and marketing infrastructure and capabilities; — expanding manufacturing capacity and scaling up production; — implementing appropriate operational and financial systems; — providing adequate training and supervision to maintain high quality standards; and — preserving our culture and values. Continued growth will place additional significant demands on our management and our financial and operational resources, and will require that we continue to develop and improve our operational, financial and other internal controls. If we cannot scale and manage our business appropriately, we will not experience our projected growth and our financial results will suffer. Our financial results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Demand for our products varies from quarter to quarter, and these variations may cause revenue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. As a result, it is difficult for us to predict sales for subsequent periods accurately. In addition, we base our production, inventory and operating expenditure levels on anticipated orders. If orders are not received when expected in any given quarter, expenditure levels could be disproportionately high in relation to revenue for that quarter. A number of additional factors, over which we have limited control, may contribute to fluctuations in our financial results, including: — the willingness of individuals to pay directly for aesthetic medical procedures, in light of the lack of reimbursement by third-party payors; 3 — continued availability of attractive equipment leasing terms for our customers, which may be negatively influenced by interest rate increases; — changes in our ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals; — increases in the length of our sales cycle; — performance of our independent distributors; and — delays in, or failure of, product and component deliveries by our subcontractors and suppliers. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed. Our success and ability to compete depends in large part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology. As of February 15, 2009, our patent portfolio consisted of 8 issued U.S. patents, one of which we purchased in December 2004 (with the corresponding US and international family members), and 33 patent applications pending in the United States (with an additional 31 applications pending internationally and 10 international patents), related to 40 patent families relating to our technology and products. Our pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us. Any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or legally circumvented by third parties. We cannot be certain that our patents will be upheld as valid and enforceable or prevent the development of competitive products. Consequently, competitors could develop, manufacture and sell products that directly compete with our products, which could decrease our sales and diminish our ability to compete. In addition, competitors could purchase one of our products and attempt to replicate some or all of the competitive advantages we derive from our development efforts, design around our protected technology, or develop their own competitive technologies that fall outside of our intellectual property rights. If our intellectual property does not adequately protect us from our competitors’ products and methods, our competitive position could be adversely affected, as could our business. We rely on a combination of patent and other intellectual property laws and confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of inventions agreements, as appropriate, with our employees, consultants and customers, to protect and otherwise seek to control access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information. These measures may not be adequate to protect our technology from unauthorized disclosure, third-party infringement or misappropriation. We also rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. However, these parties may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Also, others may learn of our trade secrets through a variety of methods. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States or Israel. Existing and future third-party claims of infringement or other claims against us could require us to redesign our products, seek licenses, or engage in future costly intellectual property litigation, which could impact our future business and financial performance. Third parties have claimed, and may from time to time claim, that our current or future products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights, and seek to prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use, sell or import our products. For example, one of our competitors, Lumenis Ltd., sued us in 2002 for alleged unfair competition, misappropriation of trade secrets and alleged patent infringement. In March 2004, without admitting liability or any infringement of any of Lumenis Ltd.‘s patents, we entered into a settlement to resolve this litigation and entered into a license agreement for certain Lumenis patents, under which license fees were capped at $4.2 million. We paid in full the total amount during 2005. Another competitor, Thermage, Inc. sued us for alleged patent infringement in 2004. We filed a counterclaim, also alleging patent infringement, and this litigation was settled with the parties entering into a cross-licensing agreement in June 2005. Legal fees and our settlement costs in connection with our settlement with Thermage amounted to $2.2 million. In July 2004, Shaldot Metal Works Ltd., a privately owned Israeli company, sued us and Dr. Shimon Eckhouse, the chairman of our board of directors, claiming that our products infringe Shaldot’s Israeli patent. Shaldot sued us for monetary damages and requested an injunctive relief. In response we filed a counter claim against Shaldot. On October 9, 2007, without admitting any liability or infringement of the patent in suit, we entered into a settlement to resolve this matter and entered into a license agreement with Shaldot and its subsidiary, Qray Ltd., an Israeli medical start-up developing light-based products that impact cellular tissue, to whom the patent was assigned. Under this license agreement, we received a license to use and utilize the patent in any of our products. We agreed to pay Qray a one-time license fee of $0.1 million. In addition, we entered into a share purchase agreement with Shaldot and Qray whereby we invested $1.05 million in Qray in consideration for shares representing to 9% of Qray’s outstanding share capital. If Qray meets certain milestones within three and a half years from the closing of the transaction, we are obligated to invest an additional $0.45 million in Qray. On March 10, 2009 our subsidiary, Syneron Inc. was served with a complaint from Palomar Medical Technologies, Inc. The complaint alleges infringement of US Patents Nos. 5,735,844 and 5,595,568 by hair removal products sold in the United States. These patents are each currently being reexamined by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office based on different prior art. Syneron Inc.‘s response to the complaint is due May 10, 2009. 4 We may also become involved in intellectual property litigation in the future. Although we may try to resolve any potential future claims or actions as we did with the competitors described above, we may not be able to do so on reasonable terms, if at all. Following a successful third-party action for infringement, we may be required to pay substantial damages and if we cannot obtain a license or redesign our products, we may have to stop manufacturing, selling and marketing our products, and our business could suffer as a result. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate, and could divert management’s attention from our core business. If we lose this kind of litigation, a court could require us to pay substantial damages, and prohibit us from using technologies essential to our products. Any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we do not know whether necessary licenses would be available to us on satisfactory terms, or whether we could redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement. We may become involved in litigation to protect the trademark rights associated with our company name or the names of our products. We do not know whether others will assert that our company name infringes their trademark rights. In addition, names we choose for our products may be claimed to infringe names held by others. If we have to change the name of our company or products, we may experience a loss in goodwill associated with our brand name, customer confusion and a loss of sales. We may also become involved in litigation not only as a result of alleged infringement of a third-party’s intellectual property rights, but also to protect our own intellectual property rights, which would divert our management’s attention from our core business and may be expensive and time consuming to litigate. Please see Item 8, “Financial Information – Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information” for further details regarding legal proceeding and the risk arising under those proceedings. We compete against companies that have longer operating histories, more established products and greater resources, which may prevent us from achieving significant market penetration or maintaining or improving operating results. Our products compete against products offered by public companies, including Candela Corporation, Cutera, Inc., Cynosure, Inc., Thermage, Inc., Palomar Medical Technologies, Inc. and Lumenis Ltd., as well as by private companies such as Sciton, Inc., UltraShape Ltd., Alma Lasers Ltd. and several other smaller specialized companies. Competition with these companies could result in reduced prices and profit margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also face competition from medical products, including Botox and collagen injections, and aesthetic procedures, such as sclerotherapy, electrolysis and chemical peels, that are unrelated to radio frequency and light or laser-based technologies. We also may face competition from manufacturers of pharmaceutical and other products that have not yet been developed. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to distinguish our company and our products from our competitors and their products, and includes the following factors: — product performance; — product pricing; — intellectual property protection; — quality of customer support; — success and timing of new product development and introductions; and — development of successful distribution channels. Some of our competitors have more established products and customer relationships than we do, which could inhibit our market penetration efforts. Potential customers also may need to recoup the cost of expensive products that they already have purchased from our competitors and may decide not to purchase our products, or to delay such purchases. If we are unable to achieve continued market penetration, we will be unable to compete effectively and our business will be harmed. In addition, some of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, research and development, manufacturing, and sales and marketing resources than we have. Our competitors could use their greater financial resources to acquire other companies to gain enhanced name recognition and market share, as well as to develop new technologies or products that could effectively compete with our existing product lines. 5 Due to our limited history of operations, we may not be able to predict our future performance or continue our revenue growth and profitability. We were incorporated in July 2000 and commercially launched our first product in the fourth quarter of 2001. Consequently, we have a limited history of operations. The future success of our business will depend on our ability to increase product sales, successfully introduce new products, expand our sales force and distribution network, and control costs, which we may be unable to do. As a result, we may not be able to continue our revenue growth and profitability. We outsource the manufacturing of our products to a small number of manufacturing subcontractors. If our subcontractors’ operations are interrupted or if our orders exceed our subcontractors’ manufacturing capacity, we may not be able to deliver our products to customers on time. We outsource the manufacturing of our products to three subcontractors located in Israel. These subcontractors have limited manufacturing capacity that may be inadequate if our customers place orders for unexpectedly large quantities of our products. In addition, because our subcontractors are located in Israel, they on occasion may feel the impact of potential economic or political instability in the region. If the operations of one or more of these subcontractors were halted or limited, even temporarily, or if they were unable or unwilling to fulfill large orders, we could experience business interruption, increased costs, damage to our reputation and loss of our customers. In addition, qualifying new subcontractors could take several months. We depend upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuations, which could harm our business. Many of the components that comprise our products are currently manufactured by a limited number of suppliers. Although most of our components are obtained from at least three separate suppliers, we do not have the ability to manufacture these components ourselves. A supply interruption or an increase in demand beyond current suppliers’ capabilities could harm our ability to manufacture our products until we identify and qualify a new source of supply, which could take several months. Any interruption in the supply of components or materials, or our inability to obtain substitute components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business. We sell our products in a number of countries and therefore our results of operations could suffer if we are unable to manage our international operations effectively. We are headquartered in Israel and have offices in the United States, Canada, Germany and Hong-Kong. We depend on third-party distributors in Europe, Asia, Australia, South Africa and South America. We also depend on relatively new direct sales operations to sell our products in North America. Therefore, we are subject to risks associated with having worldwide operations. Substantially all of our revenue in 2006, 2007 and 2008 was generated outside of Israel, primarily in North America, Western Europe and Asia. Only an immaterial portion of our revenues in 2006, 2007 and 2008 was generated in Israel. Part of our strategy is to expand our sales in existing markets and to enter new foreign markets. Expansion of our international business will require significant management attention and financial resources. Our international sales and operations subject us to many risks inherent in international business activities, including: — foreign certification and regulatory requirements; — lengthy payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; — customs clearance and shipping delays; — import and export controls; — multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures; — greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property in some countries; — difficulties staffing and managing our international operations; — difficulties in penetrating markets in which our competitors' products are more established; and — economic instability. In addition, we face particular risks associated with doing business in international markets, including, political instability and the threat of terror attacks. If our international sales do not continue at the expected pace or suffer from higher challenges than expected, we will not experience our projected growth or have decreased revenue and our financial results will suffer. 6 Exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. A majority of our revenues and a substantial portion of our expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, a portion of our revenues and a portion of our costs, including personnel and some marketing and facilities expenses, are incurred in New Israeli Shekels and Euros. Inflation in Israel or Europe or a weakening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies may have the effect of increasing the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in that jurisdiction, which may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. During 2008, the New Israeli Shekel (average annual rate) appreciated against the U.S. dollar by approximately 14% compared to 2007, which contributed to an approximately 6% increase of operating expenses. In addition, during 2008, the Euro depreciated against the U.S. dollar by approximately 7%, which contributed to a decrease of approximately 2% in annual sales. Since the beginning of 2009, through February 15, 2009 the New Israeli Shekel depreciated against the U.S. dollar by approximately 6.5%, and the Euro depreciated against the U.S. dollar by approximately 12%. If the U.S. dollar continues to strengthen in value in relation to the shekel, it will become less expensive for us to fund our operations in Israel. If the Euro continues to depreciate against the U.S. dollar it will decrease our revenues from operations. Although we use hedging techniques to reduce the risk associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates, we may not be able to eliminate the effects of currency fluctuations. Thus exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Any acquisition that we make could harm our business and hurt our financial condition. From time to time, we evaluate potential strategic acquisitions of technologies and products. We also consider entering into joint venture agreements and other collaborations. We may not be able to identify appropriate targets or strategic partners, or successfully negotiate, finance or integrate any such products or technologies. Any acquisition that we pursue could diminish our cash position and divert management’s time and attention from our core operations. If we fail to obtain and maintain necessary U.S. Food and Drug Administration clearances for our products and indications, if clearances for future products and indications are delayed or not issued, or if there are U.S. federal or state level regulatory changes, our commercial operations could be harmed. Most of our products are medical devices subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for manufacturing, labeling, sale, promotion, distribution and shipping. Before a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, an existing product can be marketed in the United States, it must first receive either 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval (“PMA”) from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. Either process can be expensive and lengthy. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to twelve months, but it can last longer. The process of obtaining a PMA is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and it generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the application is filed with the FDA. To date, none of our devices passed via PMA and we believe that very few of our currently planned products are subject to PMA by the FDA. All products that we currently market in the United States have received 510(k) clearance for the uses for which they are marketed or are products with minor modifications from our cleared products and are therefore covered by Letter to File. In June 2005, the FDA granted 510(k) clearance to our Vela platform for the temporary reduction in the appearance of cellulite and for the relief of minor muscle aches, pain and spasms, as well as the temporary improvement of local blood circulation. In March 2006, the FDA granted 510(k) clearance to our new ST applicator for non-invasive wrinkle treatment a technique related to our ReFirme™ procedure. In July 2007, the FDA granted 510(k) clearance to our VelaSmooth product for temporary reduction of thigh circumferences, and in August 2007, the FDA granted 510(k) clearance to our VelaShape for all uses of our VelaSmooth product. As a result of these 510(k) clearances, we are now permitted to sell the Vela platform and our ReFirme™ procedure using our new ST applicator in the United States to physicians. In May 2008, the FDA granted 510(k) to our new LipoLite product for laser-assisted lipolysis and additional dermatological procedures. In September 2008, the FDA granted 510(k) clearance to our Matrix RF applicator for use in dermatological procedures requiring ablation and resurfacing of the skin. In October 2006, the FDA granted 510(k) clearance to our LiteTouch product for dental laser treatment. As a result of this 510(k) clearance, we are now permitted to sell our LiteTouch product to dentists in the United States. Medical devices may be marketed only for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. We have obtained 510(k) clearance for the current treatments for which we offer our products. However, our clearances can be revoked if safety or effectiveness problems develop. Any modifications to an FDA-cleared device that would significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new 510(k) clearance or possibly PMA. We may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearances or PMAs for new products or for modifications to, or additional indications for, our existing products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearances would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our revenue and future profitability. We have made modifications to our devices in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees, and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified devices. We also are subject to Medical Device Reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Our products and/or their use are also subject to state regulations, which are, in many instances, in flux. Changes in state regulations may impede sales. We cannot predict the impact or effect of future legislation or regulations at the federal or state levels. 7 The FDA and state authorities have broad enforcement powers. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA or state agencies, which may include any of the following sanctions: — warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; — repair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of our products; — issuing an import alert to block entry of products the FDA has reason to believe violate applicable regulatory requirements; — operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; — refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to existing products; — withdrawing 510(k) clearance or pre-market approvals that have already been granted; and — criminal prosecution. If any of these events were to occur, it could harm our business. If we or our subcontractors fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation and performance standards, manufacturing operations could be halted, and our business would suffer. We and our subcontractors are required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR. The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, control, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. Because our products use optical energy, including lasers, our products also are covered by a performance standard for lasers set forth in FDA regulations. The laser performance standard imposes specific record-keeping, reporting, product testing and product labeling requirements. These requirements include affixing warning labels to laser products, as well as incorporating certain safety features in the design of laser products. The FDA enforces the QSR and laser performance standards through periodic unannounced inspections. We and our subcontractors are subject to such inspections. Although we place our own quality control employee at each of our subcontractors’ facilities, we do not have complete control over our subcontractors’ compliance with these standards. Any failure by us or our subcontractors to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection or to comply with applicable laser performance standards could result in enforcement actions against us or our subcontractors, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of manufacturing operations, a recall of our products, civil or criminal penalties, or other sanctions, such as those described in the preceding paragraph, which could cause our sales and business to suffer. In addition, we are subject to standards imposed on our activities outside of the United States, such as obtaining CE certification for the quality of our systems and products from the European authorizing body (KEMA) and electrical and safety certification from the Standards Institution of Israel, and failure to comply with such standards could adversely impact our business. We may be unable to obtain or maintain international regulatory qualifications or approvals for our current or future products, which could harm our business. Sales of our products outside the United States are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. Complying with international regulatory requirements can be an expensive and time-consuming process and approval is not certain. The time required for obtaining clearance or approvals, if required by other countries, may be longer than that required for FDA clearance or approvals, and requirements for such clearances or approvals may significantly differ from FDA requirements. Although we have obtained regulatory approvals in the European Union and other countries outside the United States, such as approvals for the use of our Aurora, Polaris, VelaSmooth, Galaxy and Comet product platforms in Korea and approvals for the use of our Aurora and Polaris product platforms in China, we may be unable to maintain regulatory qualifications, clearances or approvals in these countries or to obtain approvals in other countries. We also may incur significant costs in attempting to obtain and in maintaining foreign regulatory approvals or qualifications. If we experience delays in receiving necessary qualifications, clearances or approvals to market our products outside the United States, or if we fail to receive those qualifications, clearances or approvals, we may be unable to market some of our products or enhancements in certain international markets effectively, or at all. New regulations may limit our ability to sell to non-physicians. We sell our products to physicians and, outside the United States, to aestheticians. In addition, we sell our products in the developing U.S. medical spa market, where aesthetic procedures are being performed at dedicated facilities by non-physicians under physician supervision. However, U.S., state and international regulations could change at any time, disallowing sales of our products to aestheticians, and limiting the ability of aestheticians and non-physicians to operate our products. We cannot predict the impact or effect of changes in U.S., state or international laws or regulations. 8 Because we do not require training for users of our products, and we also sell our products to non-physicians, there exists potential for misuse of our products, which could harm our reputation and our business. In the United States, federal regulations allow us to sell our products to or on the order of “licensed practitioners.” The definition of “licensed practitioners” varies from state to state. As a result, depending on state law, our products may be purchased or operated by physicians or other licensed practitioners, including nurse practitioners, chiropractors and technicians. Outside the United States, many jurisdictions do not require specific qualifications or training for purchasers or operators of our products. We do not supervise the procedures performed with our products, and we have no way to confirm that adequate supervision occurs. The lack of required training and the purchase and use of our products by non-physicians may result in product misuse and adverse treatment outcomes, which could harm our reputation and expose us to costly product liability litigation. Product liability suits could be brought against us due to defective material or design, or due to misuse of our products, and could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages and an increase in our insurance rates. If our products are defectively designed, manufactured or labeled, contain defective components or are misused, we may become subject to substantial and costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Misusing our products or failing to adhere to operating guidelines could cause significant eye and skin damage, and underlying tissue or organ damage. In addition, if our operating guidelines are found to be inadequate, we may be subject to liability. We have been involved, and may in the future be involved, in claims related to the use of our products. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us. We have been involved in a number of disputes or legal claims between our customers and their patients that involved potential product liability claims since inception. To date, none of these disputes resulted in legal verdicts against us, although in some cases payments were made or might be made by an insurance carrier. We may not be able to obtain insurance in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. Any product liability claims brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing continuing coverage, could harm our reputation in the industry and reduce product sales. Product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage would be paid out of cash reserves harming our financial condition and reducing our operating results. Components used in our products are complex in design, and defects may not be discovered prior to shipment to customers, which could result in warranty obligations, reducing our revenue and increasing our costs. In manufacturing our products, we and our subcontractors depend upon third-party suppliers for various components. Many of these components require a significant degree of technical expertise to produce. If our suppliers fail to produce components to specification, or if the suppliers, our subcontractors, or we, use defective materials or workmanship in the manufacturing process, the reliability and performance of our products will be compromised. If our products contain defects that cannot be repaired easily and inexpensively, we may experience: — loss of customer orders and delay in order fulfillment; — damage to our brand reputation; — increased cost of our warranty program due to product repair or replacement; — inability to attract new customers; — diversion of resources from our manufacturing and research and development departments into our service department; — product recalls; and — legal action. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing could materially harm our business. We forecast sales to determine requirements for our products and if our forecasts are incorrect, we may experience either shipment delays or increased costs and inventory. Our subcontractors keep limited materials and components on hand. To help them manage their manufacturing operations and minimize inventory costs, we forecast anticipated product sales to predict our inventory needs up to nine months in advance and enter into purchase orders on the basis of these requirements with limitation of components lead time and long lead items. We also accept one month safety stock of raw material above lead time. Our historical experience may not provide us with sufficient data to accurately predict future demand. If our business expands, our demand would increase and our suppliers may be unable to meet our demand. If we overestimate our requirements, our subcontractors will have excess inventory, and may transfer to us any increase in costs. If we underestimate our requirements, our subcontractors may have inadequate components and materials inventory, which could interrupt, delay or prevent delivery of our products to our customers. Any of these occurrences would negatively affect our financial performance and the level of satisfaction our customers have with our business. 9 In order to effectively manage our collaboration with Procter & Gamble, we may divert the attention of key technical personnel and management from the core business. If Procter & Gamble terminates the agreement, our share price could fall, and we may be unable to bring a home-use device to the market. Effective February 25, 2007, we entered into a Joint Development and Supply Framework Agreement with the Procter & Gamble Company for the commercialization of patented and patent pending, ELOS-based, home-use devices and compositions for the enhancement of skin appearance through the treatment of fine lines, wrinkles, age and sun spots and cellulite. Under the agreement, significant resources and the attention of key technical personnel and management will be directed to the development of such devices even though such devices may not be commercialized for several years, if ever. In addition, we cannot be sure that the agreement will result in marketable products or that we will receive payments for any products developed pursuant to the agreement. Procter & Gamble has the option under certain circumstances to terminate the agreement, including following the failure by us to successfully complete two milestones, and may exercise that option. If Procter & Gamble terminates the agreement, the price of our ordinary shares could fall significantly, and we will not receive certain royalty and other payments provided for in the agreement. If Procter & Gamble terminates the agreement, we may decide to proceed to develop and commercialize the device on our own or with a third party. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement such a decision and successfully bring a home-use device to the market. We have invested a portion of our cash in auction-rate securities, which subjects us to liquidity and investment risk. Due to recent uncertainties in the capital markets regarding auction-rate securities, we recorded an impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2007 and during 2008, and, if the fair value of these investments were to decline further, we could be required to record further impairment charges related to these investments. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of funds that are held in marketable securities. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. Due to recent market developments, including a series of rating agency downgrades, the fair value of these investments may decline. We expect that market conditions will continue to fluctuate and that the fair value of our investments may be impacted accordingly. As of February 15, 2009, we held approximately $9.5 million in auction-rate securities, which consist of interests in collateralized debt obligations supported by pools of residential and commercial mortgages or credit cards, insurance securitizations and other structured credits, including corporate bonds. Auction-rate securities are floating rate debt securities with long-term nominal maturities for which the interest rates are reset from time to time through a competitive bidding process often referred to as a “Dutch auction.” These periodic auctions have historically provided a liquid market for auction-rate securities, as this mechanism generally allows existing investors to rollover their holdings and continue to own their respective securities at then-existing market rates or to liquidate their holdings by selling their securities at par value. As part of the ongoing credit market crisis, a number of auction-rate securities from various issuers have failed to receive sufficient order interest from potential investors to clear successfully, resulting in auction failures. Historically, when investor demand was insufficient, the banks running the auctions would step in and purchase the remaining securities to prevent an auction failure. Recently, however, banks have been allowing these auctions to fail. While the auction-rate securities held by us had AAA/Aaa credit ratings at the time of our purchase of these securities, the auction-rate securities held by us have experienced multiple failed auctions, as the amount of these auction-rate securities submitted for sale exceeded the amount of purchase orders for these auction-rate securities. As a result, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of approximately $5.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2007 and an additional $1.6 million during 2008. We cannot predict when the liquidity of these auction-rate securities will improve. We continue to monitor the market for auction-rate securities although there is no current secondary market for such securities. If the fair value of these investments were to decline, management would be required to evaluate whether such decline is “other than temporary.” The amount of any impairment loss which is determined to be other than temporary would be immediately recorded in the consolidated statement of operations. Such an impairment charge could materially and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. See Note 3 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements for further information. A portion of our liquidity will be adversely affected to the extent that auctions for our auction-rate securities experience further failures. 10 We may fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404, which started in connection with our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires (i) management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and (ii) a statement by management that its independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting, in connection with the filing of our Annual Report on Form 20-F for each fiscal year. We have documented and tested our internal control systems and procedures in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404. While our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting resulted in our conclusion that as of December 31, 2008, our internal control over financial reporting was effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. The failure to attract and retain key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success also depends in large part on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified engineering and other highly skilled technical and professional personnel. Competition for certain employees, particularly sales representatives and development engineers, is intense. We may be unable to continue to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees. Our inability to attract and retain additional key employees or the loss of one or more of our current key employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under current U.S., Canadian and Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We have entered into non-competition agreements with all of our professional employees. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a limited period. Under current U.S., Canadian and Israeli law, we may be unable to enforce these agreements, in whole or in part, and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise that our former employees gained while working for us. For example, in the past, Israeli courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of such employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or intellectual property. If we are unable to demonstrate that harm would be caused to us or otherwise enforce these non-competition agreements, in whole or in part, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees, which could harm our business. Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel Political, economic and military instability in Israel may impede our ability to operate and harm our financial results. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel and our principal executive offices and research and development facilities are located in Israel. In addition, all of our subcontractors are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. The Israeli economy has suffered in the past and may suffer in the future from instability, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Following the recession and the instability that characterized the Israeli economy during the years 2001 and 2003, the Israeli economy showed signs of improvement during 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007. However, in recent quarters, the global economic recession, instability and uncertainty has affected the economic conditions in Israel and it is currently expected that such conditions will continue in Israel throughout 2009. If the economic deterioration in Israel continues, it may adversely affect our financial conditions, the results of operations and our ability to obtain financing from Israeli banks. In addition, since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could affect adversely our operations. Since October 2000, terrorist violence in Israel has increased significantly, primarily in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, and Israel has experienced terrorist incidents within its borders. Recently, there has been a further escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups. In addition, in July 2006, there have been extensive hostilities along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon and to a lesser extent in the Gaza Strip. Since June 2007, the Hamas militant group has taken over the Gaza Strip from the Palestinian Authority, and the hostilities along Israel’s border with the Gaza Strip have increased, escalating to a wide scale attack by Israel in December 2008, in retaliation to rocket attacks into southern Israel. Ongoing and revived hostilities or other Israeli political or economic factors could harm our operations and product development and cause our sales to decrease. Furthermore, several countries, principally those in the Middle East, still restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may limit seriously our ability to sell our products in these countries. 11 You may have difficulties enforcing a U.S. judgment against us and/or our executive officers and directors or asserting U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. A significant portion of our assets and the assets of our directors and executive officers are located outside the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us or any of them in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. Further, if a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it will be payable in Israeli currency. It also may be difficult for you to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Our operations may be disrupted by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Many of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of our other employees due to reserve duty. Any disruption in our operations may harm our business. The tax benefits available to us require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs and taxes. We have generated income and are able to take advantage of tax exemptions and reductions resulting from the “Approved Enterprise” and “Benefited Enterprise” status of our facilities in Israel. To remain eligible for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions, including making specified investments in property and equipment. If we fail to meet these conditions in the future, the tax benefits would be canceled and we could be required to refund any tax benefits we might already have received. In addition, these tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at any level. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits may increase our expenses in the future, which would reduce our expected profits or increase our losses. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel, for example, by future acquisitions, our increased activities generally will not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. Under our first tax benefit plan, we have invested approximately $720,000 in fixed assets of which $223,000 was from paid-in capital as required by the financing condition of the approved plan. Under our next two tax benefit plans, which were approved under the amendment to the law of the Engorgement of Capital Investment 1959, we invested approximately $529,000 during 2004 and 2005 under the second plan and approximately $1,138,000 during 2006 and 2007 under the third plan. See Item 10.E, “Taxation – Israeli Taxation – Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959” for more information about these programs. The government grants we received from 2000 to 2003 for research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to refund grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. From 2000 to 2003, we received grants totaling $397,000 from the government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures for our Polaris and Galaxy product platforms. The terms of the Chief Scientist grants prohibit us from manufacturing products or transferring technologies developed using these grants outside of Israel without special approvals. We have no current plan to manufacture products or transfer technologies developed using these grants outside of Israel. Even if we receive approval to manufacture our products outside of Israel, we may be required to pay an increased total amount of royalties, which may be up to 300% of the grant amount plus interest, depending on the manufacturing volume that is performed outside of Israel. This restriction may impair our ability to outsource manufacturing or engage in similar arrangements for those products or technologies. In addition, the restrictions may impair our ability to consummate a merger or similar transaction in which the surviving entity is not an Israeli company. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions imposed by the Office of the Chief Scientist, we may be required to refund any grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. In addition, in recent years, the government of Israel has accelerated the rate of repayment of Chief Scientist grants and may further accelerate them in the future. We have not applied for any new grants since 2004 and currently have no plans to apply for such grants. Provisions of our articles of association, our shareholder rights plan, and Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of Syneron, which could prevent a change of control and negatively affect the price of our ordinary shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Our articles of association contain provisions that may make it more difficult to acquire our company, such as classified board provisions. As noted above, the transfer of our technology (including by acquisition) is subject to certain restrictions and approvals of the Office of the Chief Scientist, which provided grants for the development of our technology. 12 In November 2008, our board of directors adopted a shareholder rights plan, under which our board of directors declared a dividend of one right for each ordinary share held by shareholders of record as of the close of business on November 9, 2008. Initially, these rights will not be exercisable and will trade with our ordinary shares. Under the plan, these rights will generally be exercisable only if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15 percent or more of our ordinary shares or commences a tender or exchange offer for 15 percent or more of our ordinary shares, except if such person or group has become an “Acquiring Person” pursuant to an offer approved by the majority of the board of directors. If a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15 percent or more of our ordinary shares (except if such person or group has become an “Acquiring Person” pursuant to an offer approved by the majority of the board of directors), each right will generally entitle the holder, other than the acquiring person or group, to acquire, for the exercise price of $0.01 per share (subject to adjustment as provided in the plan), two (2) ordinary shares. In addition, if, after a person acquires such ownership, we engage in a merger in which we are not the survivor or our ordinary shares are changed or exchanged, or we sell or transfer more than 50 percent of our assets or earning power, each right will generally entitle the holder, other than the acquiring person or group, to acquire, for the exercise price of $0.01 per share (subject to adjustment as provided in the plan), two (2) times the shares of the acquiring company to which each of our shareholders is entitled to for each ordinary shares. Our board of directors may redeem the rights at a price of $.0001 per right at any time up to ten days after a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15 percent or more of our ordinary shares. The rights plan will continue in effect until November 9, 2009 unless earlier redeemed or amended by our board of directors. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. See Item 10.B, “Additional Information – Memorandum and Articles of Association.” for additional discussion about some anti-takeover effects of Israeli law. These provisions of Israeli law, our articles of association, and our shareholders’ rights plan, may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of Syneron, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli Companies Law, 5759-1999 (Companies Law). These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, pursuant to the Companies Law each shareholder of an Israeli company has to act in good faith in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders and class meetings, on amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers, and transactions requiring shareholders’ approval under the Companies Law. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or officer in the company, or has other powers toward the Company has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares The price of our ordinary shares has fluctuated substantially and we expect will continue to do so. The market price for our ordinary shares has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The market price for our ordinary shares has been, and we expect will continue to be, affected by a number of factors, including: — the gain or loss of significant orders or customers; — recruitment or departure of key personnel; — the announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors; — announcements regarding clearance or non-clearance of regulatory approval; — quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations; — announcements related to litigation; — changes in earnings estimates, investors' perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts' earning estimates; — developments in our industry; and — general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. 13 In addition, the stock prices of many companies in the medical device industry have experienced wide fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. These factors and price fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. We are controlled by a small number of existing shareholders, who may make decisions with which you may disagree. Our directors and executive officers, along with our two largest shareholders, in the aggregate, beneficially owned or controlled approximately 11.92% of our outstanding ordinary shares as of February 15, 2009. These shareholders are not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party. While these shareholders do not have the right to appoint board members directly, these shareholders, acting together, could exercise significant influence over our operations and business strategy and may have sufficient voting power to influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the ability to elect or remove directors, to approve or reject mergers or other business combination transactions, the raising of future capital and the amendment of our articles of association, which govern the rights attached to our ordinary shares. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a change in control, or deprive you of a possible premium for your ordinary shares as part of any sale of our company. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future, and any return on investment may be limited to the value of our ordinary shares. We have never paid cash dividends on our ordinary shares and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our ordinary shares will depend on our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as our board of directors may consider relevant. Furthermore, the payment of dividends may be considered as income which is non tax-exempt under the “Approved Enterprise” status of our facilities in Israel. We may only pay dividends in any fiscal year out of “profits,” as defined by the Companies Law, and, provided that the distribution is not reasonably expected to impair our ability to fulfill our outstanding and expected obligations. If we do not pay dividends, our ordinary shares may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our share price appreciates. We have decided to reinvest the amount of tax exempt income derived from our “Approved Enterprise” status and not to distribute that income as dividends. U.S. investors in our company could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. If, for any taxable year, our passive income or our assets that produce passive income exceed levels provided by law, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our shareholders. If we were classified as a passive foreign investment company, a U.S. Holder could be subject to increased tax liability upon the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or upon the receipt of amounts treated as “excess distributions.” Under these rules, the excess distribution and any gain would be allocated ratably over the U.S. Holder’s holding period for the ordinary shares, and the amount allocated to the current taxable year and any taxable year prior to the first taxable year in which we were a passive foreign investment company would be taxed as ordinary income. The amount allocated to each of the other taxable years would be subject to tax at the highest marginal rate in effect for the applicable class of taxpayer for that year, and an interest charge for the deemed deferral benefit would be imposed on the resulting tax allocated to such other taxable years. The tax liability with respect to the amount allocated to years prior to the year of the disposition, or “excess distribution,” cannot be offset by any net operating losses. In addition, holders of shares in a passive foreign investment company may not receive a “step-up” in basis on shares acquired from a decedent. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares as well as the specific application of the “excess distribution” and other rules discussed in this paragraph. For a discussion of how we might be characterized as a PFIC and related tax consequences, please see Item 10.E, “Additional Information – Taxation – United States Federal Income Tax Considerations – Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” 14 