D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks together with the other information in this Annual Report in evaluating our business, financial condition and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we consider immaterial may also impair our business operations, financial results and prospects. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial results and prospects could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and related notes and the Section captioned “Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flows and may not be profitable in the future. We have incurred substantial losses and negative cash flows since our inception. We had an operating cash flow deficit in each of 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $47,379,000. We incurred net losses of approximately $3,951,000, $11,311,000, $12,358,000 and $5,085,000 in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we would have incurred a net loss of $5,096,000, but for the $10,536,000 capital gain from the sale of the E-ID Division. We expect to spend significant amounts of capital to enhance our products and services, develop further sales and operations and fund expansion; and therefore, we may continue to have net operating losses and negative cash flows for the foreseeable future. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenue to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Parts of our operating expense levels are based on internal forecasts for future demand and not on firm customer orders for products or services. Our results may be negatively affected by fluctuating demand for our products and services from one quarter to the next and by increases in the costs of components and raw materials acquired from suppliers. We will face a need for additional capital and may need to curtail our operations if it is not available. We have partially funded our operations through the issuance of equity securities and convertible bonds to investors and may not be able to generate a positive cash flow from operations in the future. Continuation of our current operations after utilizing our current cash reserves is dependent upon the generation of additional financial resources either through the issuance of additional equity or debt securities or other sources of financing or the sale of certain assets of the Company. These matters raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Any additional financings will likely cause substantial di lution to existing stockholders. If we are unable to obtain necessary additional financing, we may be required to reduce the scope of, or cease, our operations. Even if we raise such additional capital, we may be required to reduce the scope of our operations and may need to implement certain operational changes in order to decrease our expenditure level. Our need for additional capital to finance our operations and growth will be greater should, among other things, our revenue or expense estimates prove to be incorrect. 8 The current economic and financial crisis may have a material adverse effect on our results. The crisis of the financial and credit markets worldwide in the second half of 2008 has led to an economic slowdown worldwide, and the outlook for 2010 is uncertain. A continuation or worsening of unfavorable economic conditions, including the on-going credit and capital markets disruptions, could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways. We may experience declines in revenues, profitability and cash flows as a result of reduced orders, delays in receiving orders or in the completion of projects, delays or defaults in payment or other factors caused by the economic problems of our customers and prospective customers. We may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other problems associated with financial constraints faced by our suppliers and subcontractors. In addition, changes and volatility in the equity, credit and foreign exchange markets and in the competitive landscape make it increasingly difficult for us to predict our revenues and earnings into the future. Currently, we lack of short-term visibility as customers are focused on maintaining flexibility, reducing inventory and conserving their cash. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may impact our ability to access liquidity and capital. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than eighteen months. We need liquidity in our day-to-day business activities to pay our operating expenses and interest on our debt. In the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects.. If our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, there is a risk that external funding sources might not be available or available at unfavorable terms. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to raise additional capital to support business growth. This would have the potential to decrease both our profitability and our financial flexibility. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and regulatory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. Depending on the impact on our business of the current economic crisis, we may face problems in managing any decline in our business. If the current economic and financial crisis continues to have an adverse impact on the demand for products or their profitability, we may face difficulties in managing a decline in our business. Our success in handling a contraction of our business will depend on our ability, among other things, to: — develop efficient forecast methods for evaluating the prospective quantity of products that will be ordered by our customers; — control inventories of components ordered by our contract manufacturers required to meet actual demand, including but not limited to handling the effects of excess inventories accumulated by such manufacturers; — reduce the costs of manufacturing our products; — continue to collect receivables from our customers in full and in a timely manner; and — properly balance the size and capabilities of our workforce. If we are unable to manage a decline in business, we could fail to manage the costs associated with all aspects of our business, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. There is a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and we may not be able to remedy this material weakness or prevent future material weaknesses. If we fail to do so there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as identified by our management as of December 31, 2008 is summarized below and has not been remedied as of December 31, 2009. Our improper segregation of duties in our finance department has not reduced to an acceptable low level the risk that material errors may occur and may not be detected on a timely basis by management in the normal course of business. 9 Notwithstanding the steps we have taken and continue to take that are designed to remediate the material weakness identified above, we may not be successful in remediating this material weakness in the near or long term and we may not be able to prevent other material weaknesses in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved internal control over financial reporting, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional significant deficiencies or additional material weaknesses or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestations regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of t he Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to miss our reporting deadlines and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in the price of our shares. See “Item 15, Controls and Procedures” for additional information. We expect to face a reduction in revenue arising out of the sale of certain assets and liabilities. On January 28, 2010, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Vuance, Inc., completed the sale of certain of its assets and certain of its liabilities related to our electronic access control market, and on January 29, 2010, we and Vuance, Inc. completed the sale of certain of the assets and certain of the liabilities of Vuance, Inc. related to our Government Services Division including our Critical Situation Management System ("CSMS") and Credentialing ("RAPTOR") suites (see a description of this transaction under the caption “History of the Company” in Item 4.A). As a result of such sales and our concentration on active RFID technology and our PureRFid suite, we expect to face a reduction in revenue, and we may continue to experience fluctuations in revenue in the future. We expect to face a substantial reduction in our revenues from our perimeter security and border control projects associated with the European Airport Project. The revenues from our European International Airport Project for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009 were $2,182,000, $9,722,000 and $1,961,000, respectively. The revenues received from the European Airport Project are fully recognized through December 31, 2009. Unless we have significant growth in our active RFID business lines, we may face reduction in our revenues. Additionally, under the terms of our agreement, upon our implementation of the integrated perimeter security system and border control system, the customer was to sign a transmission and acceptance report and we were to enter into the ten-year maintenance period. As of the filing date of this Form 20-F, while we have completed implementation of the systems, the customer has not signed the transmission and acceptance report, and our wholly-owned subsidiary, SBC Aviation Ltd., has not received the final payment from the customer under the agreement in the amount of $465,600. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a small number of customers, and the reduction of sales to any one of those customers could adversely impact our operating results by causing a drop in revenues. We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. In the years 2007, 2008 and 2009, we derived 71%, 84% and 88% respectively, of our consolidated net revenue from two customers. In the year ended December 31, 2009, two of our customers accounted for 88% of our consolidated net revenues as follows: the government of a European country and European International Airport accounted for 67%, and 21%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues. A substantial reduction in sales to, or loss of, any of our significant customers would adversely affect our business unless we were able to replace the revenue we received from those customers, which replacement we may not be able to find. Specifically, changes that may negatively impact the political or economic stability and environment of the European countr y, from which we derive 88% of our consolidated net revenues under a 10-year contract, could adversely affect our business and future operations in such country. As a result of this concentration of revenue from a limited number of customers and our increased reliance on active RFID technology resulting from our sale of certain assets and liabilities related to our electronic access control market and our Government Services Division including our CSMS and RAPTOR suites, our revenue has experienced wide fluctuations, and we expect our revenue to continue to experience wide fluctuations in the future as a result of our changing customer base. Part of our sales is not recurring sales, therefore quarterly and annual sales levels could fluctuate. Sales in any period may not be indicative of sales in future periods. 10 We are relying on On Track Innovations Ltd. as a subcontractor in projects not transferred as part of the sale of our E-ID Division. On December 31, 2006, we sold our E-ID Division to On Track Innovations Ltd. (“OTI”), an Israeli public company (NASDAQ: OTIV). Simultaneously, we entered into a service and supply agreement with OTI under which OTI agreed to act as our subcontractor and provide services, products and materials necessary to carry out and complete our obligations with regard to certain projects that were not transferred to OTI (the “Existing Projects”) (see description of this transaction under the caption “The OTI Transaction” in Item 4.A). We will be dependent on OTI to adequately provide such services, products, and materials in order for us to be in good standing under, and successfully complete, these projects. If OTI fails to fulfill its obligations a nd provide such services and products as necessary for the Existing Projects, it could delay our receipt of revenues for these projects, subject us to certain remedies available to our customers in the Existing Projects, and damage our business reputation, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our reliance on third party technologies, raw materials and components for the development of some of our products and our reliance on third parties for manufacturing may delay product launches, impair our ability to develop and deliver products or hurt our ability to compete in the market. Most of our products integrate third-party technology that we license and/or raw materials and components that we purchase or otherwise obtain the right to use, including: operating systems, microchips, security and cryptography technology for card operating systems, which prevents unauthorized parties from tampering with our cards, and dual interface technology, which enables cards to operate in both contact and contactless mode. Our ability to purchase and license new technologies and components from third parties is and will continue to be critical to our ability to offer a complete line of products that meets customer needs and technological requirements. We may not be able to renew our existing licenses or to purchase components and raw materials on favorable terms, if at all. If we lose the rights to a patented technology, we ma y need to stop selling or may need to redesign our products that incorporate that technology, and we may lose the potential competitive advantage such technology gave us. In addition, competitors could obtain licenses for technologies for which we are unable to obtain licenses, and third parties may develop or enable others to develop a similar solution to security issues, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Also, dependence on the patent protection of third parties may not afford us any control over the protection of the technologies upon which we rely. If the patent protection of any of these third parties were compromised, our ability to compete in the market could also be impaired. We usually do not have minimum supply commitments from our vendors for our raw materials or components and generally purchase raw materials and components on a purchase order basis. Although we generally use standard raw materials and components for our systems, some of the key raw materials or components are available only from a single source or from limited sources. Many of our products are only available from limited sources. Even where multiple sources are available, we typically obtain components and raw materials from only one vendor to ensure high quality, prompt delivery and low cost. If one of our suppliers were unable to meet our supply demands and we could not quickly replace the source of supply, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, for reasons including a delay of receipt of revenues and damage to our business reputation. Delays in deliveries from our suppliers, defects in goods or components supplied by our vendors, or delays in projects that are performed by our subcontractors could cause our revenues and gross margins to decline. We rely on a limited number of vendors and subcontractors for certain components of the products we are supplying and projects we perform. In some cases, we rely on a single source vendor or subcontractor. Any undetected flaws in components or other materials to be supplied by our vendors could lead to unanticipated costs to repair or replace these parts or materials. Even though there are multiple suppliers, we purchase some of our components from single suppliers to take advantage of volume discounts, which presents a risk that the components may not be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Although we believe that there are additional suppliers for the equipment and supplies that we require, we may not be able to make such alternative arrangements promptly. If one of our suppliers were unable to meet our supply demands and we could not quickly replace the source of supply, it could cause a delay of receipt of revenues and damage our business reputation. We depend on subcontractors to adequately perform a substantial part of our projects. If a subcontractor fails to fulfill its obligations under a certain project, it could delay our receipt of revenues for such project and damage our business reputation, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 11 We have entered into an agreement to acquire all of the issued and outstanding stock capital of Security Holding Corporation. Certain unexpected outcomes of this acquisition are not yet known and there is still no assurance that the business combination will result in all of the benefits that we anticipated. In July 2007, we entered into an agreement to acquire all of the issued and outstanding stock capital of Security Holding Corp. (“SHC”). The main reason behind the acquisition of SHC is our belief that the combined company would be better positioned to offer competitive RFID security solutions to existing and prospective customers. Prior to completion of the acquisition, we conducted a due diligence review of SHC; however, we cannot guarantee that all contingent liabilities were brought to our knowledge. A material liability that had not been discovered in the due diligence process, or since, might affect our business. In addition, this acquisition resulted in the recording of amounts related to goodwill and certain purchased intangible assets, that may result in additional impairment charges arising out of the write-off of such goodwill and intangible assets, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, and cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline. During 2008, we had to record goodwill impairment charges in the amount of $3,235,000. In January 2010 we completed the sale of certain of the assets (including certain accounts receivable and inventory) and certain of the liabilities (including certain accounts payable) of Vuance Inc. acquired in the acquisition of SHC (see a description of this transaction under the caption “History of the Company” in Item 4.A). In connection with the sale, we recognized an impairment of goodwill and intangible assets. We entered into an agreement to acquire substantially all of the assets and liabilities of Intelli-Site, Inc. Certain unexpected outcomes of this acquisition are not yet known and there is still no assurance that the business combination will result in all of the benefits that we anticipated. In March 2009, we entered into an agreement to acquire substantially all of the assets and liabilities of Intelli-Site, Inc. (“Intelli-Site”). The main reason behind the acquisition of Intelli-Site is our belief that the combined company will be better positioned to offer competitive RFID security solutions to existing and prospective customers. It is not yet clear whether all of the expected benefits of this business combination will be achieved. We believe that the following are among the factors that may affect whether such benefits will indeed be achieved, and when such results will be known: ћ our ability to maintain and increase the sale of Intelli-Site products; ћ our ability to combine the operating activities of Intelli-Site with those of our U.S. subsidiary, Vuance, Inc.; ћ our ability to sell our products to Intelli-Site’s existing customers; and ћ our ability to maintain key employees of Intelli-Site; Prior to completion of the acquisition, we conducted a due diligence review of Intelli-Site; however, we cannot guarantee that all contingent liabilities were brought to our knowledge. A material liability that had not been discovered in the due diligence process might affect our business. In addition, this acquisition may result in the recording and later amortization of amounts related to goodwill and certain purchased intangible assets, or later impairment charges arising out of the write-off of such goodwill and intangible assets, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, and cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline. In January 2010 we completed the sale of certain of the assets (including certain accounts receivable and inventory) and certain of the liabilities (including certain accounts payable) of Vuance Inc. acquired in the acquisition of Intelli-Site (see a description of this transaction under the caption “History of the Company” in Item 4.A). In connection with the sale, we recognized an impairment of goodwill and intangible assets. 12 We may pursue acquisitions or investments in complementary technologies and businesses. We may be unsuccessful in integrating the acquired businesses and/or assets of SHC and other complementary technologies and businesses, the acquisition of which we may pursue in the future, and such integrations could divert our resources and adversely affect our financial results. Before the acquisition of SHC, we have not made any other acquisitions and our management has not had significant experience making acquisitions or integrating acquired businesses. Integrating the newly acquired business or technologies into our business could divert our management’s attention from other business concerns and could be expensive and time-consuming. Acquisitions, such as our agreement to acquire the issued and outstanding stock capital of SHC, could expose our business to unforeseen liabilities or risks associated with entering new markets. Consequently, we might not be successful in integrating the acquired businesses, technologies or products into our existing business and products, and might not achieve anticipated revenue or cost benefits. In the future, we may p ursue acquisitions of, or investments in, additional complementary technologies and businesses. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future or to make these acquisitions on a commercially reasonable basis, or at all. Acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs and reduce the value to us of the acquired company. For example, if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms. In addition, future acquisitions could result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired company, or require us to issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our profitability. Our dependence on third-party distributors, sales agents and value-added resellers could result in marketing and distribution delays, which would prevent us from generating sales revenues. We market and sell some of our products using a network of distributors covering the United States. We establish relationships with distributors and resellers through agreements that provide prices, discounts and other material terms and conditions under which the reseller is eligible to purchase our systems and products for resale. These agreements generally do not grant exclusivity to the distributors and resellers and, as a general matter, are not long-term contracts, do not have commitments for minimum sales, and could be terminated by the distributor. We do not have agreements with all of our distributors. We are currently engaged in discussions with other potential distributors, sales agents, and value-added resellers. Such arrangements may never be finalized and, if finalized, such arrangements may not increase our revenues or enable us to achieve profitability. Our ability to terminate a distributor who is not performing satisfactorily may be limited. Inadequate performance by a distributor could adversely affect our ability to develop markets in the regions for which the distributor is responsible and could result in substantially greater expenditures by us in order to develop such markets. Our operating results will be highly dependent upon: (i) our ability to maintain our existing distributor arrangements; (ii) our ability to establish and maintain coverage of major geographic areas and establish access to customers and markets; and (iii) the ability of our distributors, sales agents, and value-added resellers to successfully market our products. A failure to achieve these objectives could result in lower revenues. Third parties could obtain access to our proprietary information or could independently develop similar technologies. Despite the precautions we take, third parties may copy or obtain and use our technologies, ideas, know-how and other proprietary information without authorization or may independently develop technologies similar or superior to our technologies. In addition, the confidentiality and non-competition agreements between us and most of our employees, distributors and clients may not provide meaningful protection of our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. If we are not able to successfully defend our industrial or intellectual property rights, we may lose rights to technologies that we need to develop our business, which may cause us to lose potential revenues, or we may be required to pay significant license fees for the use of such technologies. To date, we have relied p rimarily on a combination of patent, trade secret and copyright laws, as well as nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions on copying, reverse engineering and distribution to protect our proprietary technology. Our patent portfolio consisted of two issued U.S. patents, four U.S. patent applications and one PCT. Generally, these patents, applications and PCTs related to our government solutions and access control technologies and were transferred in the sale of certain of the assets and certain of the liabilities of Vuance, Inc. in the first quarter of 2010 (see a description of this transaction under the caption “History of the Company” in Item 4.A). Our prior patent applications may not result in issued patents, and even if they result in issued patents, the patents may not have claims of the scope we sought. In the event the prior patent applications do not result in issued patents, the applications may become publicly available and proprietary information disclosed in the applications will then become available to others. In addition, any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or declared unenforceable. 13 Our future patents may provide only limited protection for our technology and may not be sufficient to provide competitive advantages to us. For example, competitors could be successful in challenging any issued patents or, alternatively, could develop similar or more advantageous technologies on their own or design around our patents. Any inability to protect intellectual property rights in our technology could enable third parties to compete more effectively with us and/or could reduce our ability to compete. In addition, these efforts to protect our intellectual property rights could require us to incur substantial costs even when our efforts are successful. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of Israel or the United States. Our means of protecting our intellectual property rights in Israel, the United States or any other country in which we operate may not be adequate to fully protect our intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. We may face intellectual property litigation, which could be costly, harm our reputation, limit our ability to sell our products, force us to modify our products or obtain appropriate licenses, and divert the attention of management and technical personnel. Our products employ technology that may infringe on the proprietary rights of others, and, as a result, we could become liable for significant damages and suffer other harm to our business. Other than the ongoing litigation with Secu-Systems Ltd., as described in Item 8 below under the caption “Legal Proceedings,” we have not been subject to intellectual property litigation to date. On August 8, 2003, we received a letter stating that we may be infringing certain patents of third parties with respect to our hot lamination process for plastic cards. We reviewed the claims made in the letter and we do not believe that our products or technology infringe any third party's patents as claimed in the letter. Since the initial letter, we received another letter dated July 13, 2004 from the same party requesting that we respond to their claim and stating that attractive licenses are available. On August 11, 2004, we responded to this letter and indicated that we were not infringing upon such parties’ patents. To date, no infringement claims have been filed against us in connection with the foregoing letters. We believe that hot lamination of plastic cards is a widely known process that is used by most card manufacturers. Even if it were determined that we are infringing such third party’s patents, we believe that we could use another process to laminate plastic cards without materially affecting our business. On December 2, 2005, we received a letter stating that we may be infringing certain patents of third parties with respect to our Smart DSMS product for incident response management. We reviewed the claims made in the letter and we do not believe that our products or technology infringe any third party's patents as claimed in the letter. On February 21, 2006, after thorough investigation that included legal counseling , we responded to the letter while declining the claims in the letter. Since the initial letter, we received another letter dated August 1, 2007 from the same party stating that "at least on the surface" it appears that we are infringing one of their patents based on a line written in our website. On September 6, 2007, we responded to this letter and indicated that we were not infringing upon such party’s patents. To date, no infringement claims have been filed against us in connection with the foregoing letters. We believe that the Smart DSMS product lacks key features recited in each of the claims mentioned because the product does not perform steps of assigning and recording as recited in the party's patent. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce any patents we may obtain and/or any other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity, and we may not prevail in any such future litigation. Litigation, whether or not determined in our favor or settled, could be costly, could harm our reputation and could divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from normal business operations. In addition, adverse determinations in litigation could result in the loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses from third parties, prevent us from licensing our technology or selling or manufacturing our products, or requi re us to expend significant resources to modify our products or attempt to develop non-infringing technology, any of which could seriously harm our business. 14 Our products may contain technology provided to us by third parties. Because we did not develop such technology ourselves, we may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether such technology infringes the intellectual property rights of any other party. Our suppliers and licensors may not be required to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only with respect to intellectual property infringement claims in certain jurisdictions, and/or only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages. In addition, we have indemnification obligations to certain customers, as well as to OTI, with respect to any infringement of third-party patents and intellectual property rights by our products. If litigation were to be filed against these parties in connection with our technology, we would be required to defend and indemnify such customers. We may be plaintiff or defendant in various legal actions from time to time. From time to time, we are the defendant or plaintiff in various legal actions, which arise in the normal course of business. We are required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as potential ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of reserves required for these contingencies, if any, which would be charged to earnings, is made after careful and considered analysis of each individual action with our legal advisors. The required reserves may change in the future due to new developments in each matter or changes in circumstances, such as a change in settlement strategy. A change in the required reserves would affect our earnings in the period the change is made. A security breach of our internal systems or those of our customers could harm our business by adversely affecting the market's perception of our products and services, thereby causing our revenues to decline. For us to further penetrate the marketplace, the marketplace must be confident that we provide effective security protection for national and other secured identification documents and cards. Although we have not experienced any act of sabotage or unauthorized access by a third party of our software or technology to date, if an actual or perceived breach of security occurs in our internal systems or those of our customers, regardless of whether we caused the breach, it could adversely affect the market's perception of our products and services. This could cause us to lose customers, resellers, alliance partners or other business partners, thereby causing our revenues to decline. If we or our customers were to experience a breach of our internal systems, our business could be severely harmed by adversely affecting the market's percepti on of our products and services. We may be exposed to significant liability for actual or perceived failure to provide required products or services which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business by causing our revenues to decline and our costs to rise. Products as complex as those we offer may contain undetected errors or may fail when first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite our product testing efforts and testing by current and potential customers, it is possible that errors will be found in new products or enhancements after commencement of commercial shipments. The occurrence of product defects or errors could result in adverse publicity, delay in product introduction, diversion of resources to remedy defects, loss of or a delay in market acceptance, or claims by customers against us, or could cause us to incur additional costs or lose revenues, any of which could adversely affect our business. Because our customers rely on our products for critical security applications, we may be exposed to claims for damages allegedly caused to a customer as a result of an actual or perceived failure of our products. An actual or perceived breach of security systems of one of our customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products or solutions, could adversely affect our business reputation. Furthermore, our failure or inability to meet a customer's expectations in the performance of our services, or to do so in the time frame required by the customer, regardless of our responsibility for the failure, could result in a claim for substantial damages against us by the customer, discourage other customers from engaging us for these services, and damage our business reputation. We carry product liability insurance, but existing coverage may not be adequate to cover potential claims. We carry a combined products liability and professional liability insurance. We believe that this insurance coverage is comparable to that of other similar companies in our industry. However, that insurance may not continue to be available to us on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or the insurer may disclaim coverage as to any future claim. We do not maintain insurance coverage for theft by employees, nor do we maintain specific insurance coverage for any interruptions in our business operations. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductibles or co-insurance requirements, could adversely affect our business by significantly increa sing our costs. 15 Our efforts to expand our international operations are subject to a number of risks, any of which could adversely reduce our future international sales and increase our losses. Most of our revenues to date have been generated in jurisdictions other than the United States. Our inability to obtain or maintain federal or foreign regulatory approvals relating to the import or export of our products on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to expand our international business. Additionally, our international operations could be subject to a number of risks, any of which could adversely affect our future international sales and operating results, including: ћ increased collection risks; ћ trade restrictions; ћ export duties and tariffs; ћ uncertain political, regulatory and economic developments; ћ inability to protect our intellectual property rights; ћ highly aggressive competitors; ћ lower gross margins in commercial sales in Hong Kong and China; ћ business development issues in Hong Kong and China, where business development is time consuming and risky due to the uncertain political, regulatory and legal environment; ћ if we do not generate additional sales from the expansion, our losses may increase; and ћ currency issues. In addition, in many countries the national security organizations require our employees to obtain clearance before such employees can work on a particular transaction. Failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could also have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain sales at all or on a timely basis. Additionally, as foreign government regulators have become increasingly stringent, we may be subject to more rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the future. If we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business will be harmed. We have sought in the past and may seek in the future to enter into contracts with the U.S. government as well as state and local governmental agencies and municipalities, which subjects us to certain risks associated with such types of contracts. Most contracts with the U.S. government or state or local agencies or municipalities (“Governmental Contracts”) are awarded through a competitive bidding process, and some of the business that we expect to seek in the future will likely be subject to a competitive bidding process. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including: ћ the frequent need to compete against companies or teams of companies with more financial and marketing resources and more experience than we have in bidding on and performing major contracts; ћ the need to compete against companies or teams of companies that may be long-term, entrenched incumbents for a particular contract we are competing for and which have, as a result, greater domain expertise and established customer relations; ћ the substantial cost and managerial time and effort necessary to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; ћ the need to accurately estimate the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any fixed-price contract that we are awarded; and ћ the expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge new contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding or subsequent contract modifications, and the risk that any of these protests or challenges could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. We may not be afforded the opportunity in the future to bid on contracts that are held by other companies, and are scheduled to expire, if the U.S. government or the applicable state or local agency or municipality determines to extend the existing contract. If we are unable to win particular contracts that are awarded through the competitive bidding process, we may not be able to operate in the market for the products and services that are provided under those contracts for a number of years. If we are unable to win new contract awards or retain those contracts, if any, that we are awarded over any extended period, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. 16 In addition, Governmental Contracts subject us to risks associated with public budgetary restrictions and uncertainties, actual contracts that are less than awarded contract amounts, and cancellation at any time at the option of the governmental agency. Any failure to comply with the terms of any Governmental Contracts could result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties, as well as suspension from future contracts for a significant period of time, any of which could adversely affect our business by requiring us to pay significant fines and penalties or prevent us from earning revenues from Governmental Contracts during the suspension period. Cancellation of any one of our major Governmental Contracts could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The U.S. government may be in a position to obtain greater rights with respect to our intellectual property than we would grant to other entities. Governmental agencies also have the power, based on financial difficulties or investigations of their contractors, to deem contractors unsuitable for new contract awards. Because we will engage in the government contracting business, we will be subject to audits, and may be subject to investigation, by governmental entities. Failure to comply with the terms of any Governmental Contracts could result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties, as well as suspension from future contracts for a significant period of time, any of which could adversely affect our business by requiring us to pay the fines and penalties and prohibiting us from earning revenues from Governmental Contract s during the suspension period. Furthermore, governmental programs can experience delays or cancellation of funding, which can be unpredictable. For example, the U.S. military’s involvement in Iraq has caused the diversion of some Department of Defense funding away from certain projects in which we participate, thereby delaying orders under certain of our governmental contracts. This makes it difficult to forecast our revenues on a quarter-by-quarter basis. The markets that we target for a substantial part of our future growth are in very early stages of development, and if they do not develop our business may not grow as much or as profitably as we hope. Many of the markets that we target for our future growth are small or non-existent and need to develop if we are to achieve our growth objectives. If some or all of these markets do not develop, or if they develop more slowly than we anticipate, then we will not grow as quickly or as profitably as we hope. In February 2006, we announced the introduction of a new technology and solution for actively tracking people, objects and assets, Active RFID Tracking Systems (“PureRF”). This new technology, which expanded our homeland security offerings, was developed in response to growing market demand for asset tracking solutions in the homeland security and commercial markets. While the incident management and homeland security benefits provided by PureRF are relatively obvious, we h ave also identified other market opportunities in the public and private sectors of the economy. Our Credentialing suite has not been widely adopted by state and local governments, largely due to the dependency on federal grants, the cost of the necessary infrastructure and the relatively limited capabilities of previous solutions. As of January 2010, we have discontinued the sale of credentialing, identification and security networks products and services. In 2009, our revenues from the government market totaled approximately $8,233,000 compared to $1,071,000 from the commercial market. Although we believe the government market is critical to our success in the short term, we believe that both the government and commercial markets will be critical to our long-term success. The development of these markets will depend on many factors that are beyond our control, including the following factors (and other factors discussed elsewhere in the Risk Factors): (i) there can be no assurances that we will be able to continue to apply our expertise and solutions developed for the government market to the commercial market; (ii) the ability of public safety and other government agencies to access U.S. Department of Homeland Security and other homeland security-related grants for incident management and related purposes; (iii) the ability of the commercial markets to adopt and implement the active RFID solutions; and (iv) the ability of our management to successfully market our technologies to such government and/or commercial entities. 17 The success of our new business line, the active RFID, is dependent on several factors. The success of our active RFID business line is dependent on several factors, including proper new product definitions, product costs, timely completion and introduction of the new product, differentiation of the new product from those of our competitors, and market acceptance of the product, as well as our existing and potential customers’ varying budgets for capital expenditures and new product introduction. We have addressed the need to develop new products through our internal development efforts and joint development efforts with other companies. In light of the OTI Transaction and the sale of certain assets and liabilities related to our electronic access control market and our Government Services Division including our CSMS and RAPTOR suites, the active RFID prod uct line will be our main revenue growth generator in the future. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities and/or develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner, or that the products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. The failure of our new product development efforts could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and future growth. If our technology and solutions ceases to be adopted and used by government and commercial organizations, we may lose some of our existing customers and increase our losses. Our ability to grow depends significantly on whether governmental and commercial organizations adopt our technology and solutions as part of their new standards and whether we will be able to leverage our expertise with government products into commercial products. If these organizations do not adopt our technology, we might not be able to penetrate some of the new markets we are targeting, or we might lose some of our existing customer base. There also can be no assurances that we will be able to continue to apply our expertise and solutions developed for the public sector to the commercial market. In order for us to achieve our growth objectives, our RFID technology must be adapted to and adopted in a variety of areas, including: ћ public safety and emergency; ћ asset management; ћ patient and critical equipment tracking in the health care sector; ћ building automation; ћ patient wandering in the homecare market; ћ transportation applications using active RFID as method of monitoring and control; and ћ access control in such fields as education and health care. Any or all of these areas may not adopt our RFID technology. We cannot accurately predict the future growth rate, if any, or the ultimate size of the RFID technology markets. The expansion of the market for our products and services depends on a number of factors such as: ћ the cost, performance and reliability of our products and services compared to the products and services of our competitors; ћ customer perception of the benefits of our RFID based solutions; ћ public perception of the intrusiveness of these solutions and the manner in which organizations use the information collected; ћ public perception of the confidentiality of private information; ћ customer satisfaction with our products and services; and ћ marketing efforts and publicity for our products and services. Even if our RFID solutions gain wide market acceptance, our products and services may not adequately address market requirements and may not gain wide market acceptance. If our solutions or our products and services do not gain wide market acceptance, our business and our financial results will suffer. 18 We need to develop our position as a provider of RFID enabled security solutions and services to earn high margins from our technology, and if we are unable to develop such position, our business will not be as profitable as we hope, if at all. The increasing sophistication of our RFID technology places a premium on providing innovative software systems and services to customers, in addition to manufacturing and supplying RFID technology. While we have had some early success positioning ourselves as a provider of such services and systems, we may not continue to be successful with this strategy and we may not be able to capture a significant share of the market for the sophisticated services and systems that we believe are likely to produce attractive margins in the future. A significant portion of the value of our RFID technology lies in the development of software and applications that will permit the use of RFID technology in new markets. In contrast, the margins involved in manufacturing and selling RFID technology can be relatively small, and may not be sufficient to pe rmit us to earn an attractive return on our development investments. The time from our initial contact with a customer to a sale may be long and subject to delays, which could result in the postponement of our receipt of revenues from one accounting period to the next, increasing the variability of our results of operations and causing significant fluctuations in our revenue from quarter to quarter. The period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the purchase of our products and services is often long and subject to delays associated with the budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes that frequently accompany significant capital expenditures, particularly by governmental agencies. The typical sales cycle for our government customers has, to date, ranged from three to 24 months and the typical sales cycle for our commercial customers has ranged from one to six months. A lengthy sales cycle may have an impact on the timing of our revenue, which may cause our quarterly operating results to fall below investor expectations. We believe that a customer's decision to purchase our products and services is discretionary, involves a significant commitment o f resources, and is influenced by customer budgetary cycles. To successfully sell our products and services, we generally must educate our potential customers regarding their use and benefits, which can require significant time and resources. This significant expenditure of time and resources may not result in actual sales of our products and services. Due to the nature of our business, our financial and operating results could fluctuate. Our financial and operating results have fluctuated in the past and could fluctuate in the future from quarter to quarter and from year to year for the following reasons: ћ long customer sales cycles; ћ reduced demand for our products and services; ћ price reductions ћ new competitors, or the introduction of enhanced products or services from new or existing competitors; ћ changes in the mix of products and services we or our customers and distributors sell; ћ contract cancellations, delays or amendments by customers; ћ the lack of government demand for our products and services or the lack of government funds appropriated to purchasing our products and services; ћ unforeseen legal expenses, including litigation costs; ћ expenses related to acquisitions; ћ other non-recurring financial charges; ћ the lack of availability, or increased cost, of key components and subassemblies; ћ the inability to successfully manufacture in volume, and reduce the price of, certain of our products; and ћ impairment loss of goodwill and intangible assets. The fair value of Vuance, Inc., our U.S. subsidiary, has caused a significant goodwill and other intangible assets impairment loss. As part of the annual review for impairment in accordance with ASC Topic 350, "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other" in November 2008, we examined the fair value of the intangible assets and the goodwill and in doing so, considered in part, a third party expert services. The valuation referred to Vuance, Inc. as a single reporting unit. The valuation was conducted on a going concern basis. Since Vuance, Inc. is closely-held, and thus without a public market for its ownership interests, the appraisal was conducted according to common appraisal practices, and based on the Free Discounted Cash-Flows ("DCF") method. In addition, we received market indication with respect to the fair value of Vuance, Inc. in the first quarter of 2009. Based on the above we were required to recognize an impairment loss in the amount of approximately $3,235,000. 19 Due to the sale of certain of the assets and certain of the liabilities of Vuance, Inc. in the first quarter of 2010 (see a description of this transaction under the caption “History of the Company” in Item 4.A), as of December 31, 2009 we recognized an impairment of goodwill and intangible assets in the amount of $1,119,000 and presented the balance of $1,996,000 and $1,599,000 as assets attributed to discontinued operations and liabilities attributed to discontinued operations, respectively, in our financial statements. The lead time for ordering parts for and manufacturing our products can be significantly long and therefore based on forecasted demands rather than actual orders received. The lead time for ordering parts and materials and building many of our products can be many months. As a result, we must order parts and materials and build our products based on forecasted demand. If demand for our products lags significantly behind our forecasts, we may produce more products than we can sell, which can result in cash flow problems and write-offs or write-downs of obsolete inventory. Our markets are highly competitive and competition could harm our ability to sell products and services and could reduce our market share. The market for RFID enabled products is intensely competitive. We expect competition to increase as the industry grows and as RFID technology begins to converge with the access control and information technology industry. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. We face competition from technologically sophisticated companies, many of which have substantially greater technical, financial, and marketing resources than we do. In some cases, we compete with entities that have pre-existing relationships with potential customers. As the active RFID enabled solutions market expands, we expect additional competitors to enter the market. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have larger technical staffs, larger customer bases, more established distribution channels, greater brand recognition and greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Our competitors may be able to develop products and services that (i) are superior to our products and services, (ii) achieve greater customer acceptance or (iii) have significantly improved functionality as compared to our existing and future products and services. In addition, our competitors may be able to negotiate strategic relationships on more favorable terms than we are able to negotiate. Many of our competitors may also have well-established relationships with our existing and prospective customers. Increased competition may result in our experiencing reduced margins, loss of sales or decreased m arket share. The average selling prices for our products may decline as a result of competitive pricing pressures, promotional programs and customers who negotiate price reductions in exchange for longer-term purchase commitments. The pricing of products depends on the specific features and functions of the products, purchase volumes and the level of sales and service support required. As we experience pricing pressure, the average selling prices and gross margins for our products may decrease over product lifecycles. These same competitive pressures may require us to write down the carrying value of any inventory on hand, which could adversely affect our operating results and earnings per share. We rely on the services of certain executive officers and key personnel, the loss of which could adversely affect our operations by causing a disruption to our business. Our future success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and senior management and other key employees, including technical and sales personnel. The loss of the services of any of these persons could disrupt our business until replacements, if available, are found. We do not maintain any key-person insurance for any of our employees. Our ability to remain competitive depends in part on attracting, hiring and retaining qualified technical personnel; if we are not successful in such hiring and retention, our business could be disrupted. Our future success depends in part on the availability of qualified technical personnel, including personnel trained in software and hardware applications within specialized fields. As a result, we may not be able to successfully attract or retain skilled technical employees, which may impede our ability to develop, install, implement and otherwise service our software and hardware systems and to efficiently conduct our operations. 20 The information technology and network security industries are characterized by a high level of employee mobility and the market for technical personnel remains extremely competitive in certain regions, including Israel. This competition means that (i) there are fewer highly qualified employees available for hire, (ii) the costs of hiring and retaining such personnel are high, and (iii) highly qualified employees may not remain with us once hired. Furthermore, there may be pressure to provide technical employees with stock options and other equity interests in us, which may dilute our shareholders and increase our expenses. The additions of new personnel and the departure of existing personnel, particularly in key positions, can be disruptive, might lead to additional departures of existing personnel and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our planned growth will place significant strain on our financial and managerial resources and may negatively affect our results of operations and ability to grow more. Our ability to manage our growth effectively will require us: ћ to continue to improve our operations, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; ћ to train, motivate and manage our employees; and ћ as required, to install new management information systems. Our existing management and any new members of management may not be able to augment or improve existing systems and controls, or implement new systems and controls, in response to anticipated future growth. If we are successful in achieving our growth plans, such growth is likely to place a significant burden on the operating and financial systems, resulting in increased responsibility for our senior management and other personnel. Some of our products are subject to government regulation of radio frequency technology which could cause a delay in introducing, or an inability to introduce, such products in the United States and other markets. The rules and regulations of the United States Federal Communications Commission (the "FCC") limit the radio frequency used by and level of power emitting from electronic equipment. Our readers, controllers and other radio frequency technology scanning equipment are required to comply with these FCC rules which may require certification, verification or registration of the equipment with the FCC. Certification and verification of new equipment requires testing to ensure the equipment's compliance with the FCC's rules. The equipment must be labeled according to the FCC's rules to show compliance with these rules. Testing, processing of the FCC's equipment certificate or FCC registration and labeling may increase development and production costs and could delay introduction of our verification scanning device and next generation radio f requency technology scanning equipment into the U.S. market. Electronic equipment permitted or authorized to be used by us through FCC certification or verification procedures must not cause harmful interference to licensed FCC users, and may be subject to radio frequency interference from licensed FCC users. Selling, leasing or importing non-compliant equipment is considered a violation of FCC rules and federal law, and violators may be subject to an enforcement action by the FCC. Any failure to comply with the applicable rules and regulations of the FCC could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition by increasing our compliance costs and/or limiting our sales in the United States. Conditions in Israel affect our operations in Israel and may limit our ability to sell our products and services. We are incorporated under Israeli law and we also facilitate offices located in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our operations and business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with its Arab neighbors and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity in Israel, in varying levels of severity, since September 2000. The election in early 2006 of representatives of Hamas, an Islamic resistance movement, to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council and the resulting tension among the different Palestinian factions has created additional unrest and uncertainty. Furthermore, several countries still restrict trade with Israeli companies and additional countries may impose such restrictions as a result of changes in the military and/or political conditions in Israel, which may limit our ability to make sales in, or purchase components from, those countries. Any future armed conflict, such as the armed conflict that occurred during July and August, 2006 between Israel and Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group and political party, which involved rocket attacks on populated areas in Northern Israel, or political instability, continued violence in the region or restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. No predictions can be made as to whether or when a final resolution of the area’s problems will be achieved or the nature thereof and to what extent the situation will impact Isr ael’s economic development or our operations. 21 Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of management or key personnel to perform military service in Israel. Generally, all nonexempt male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 40, or older for reserves officers or citizens with certain occupations, are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty and are subject to being called for active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. We believe that a maximum of two of our employees, 10% of our employees at any one time, could be called for active duty under emergency circumstances. While we have operated effectively under these requirements since our incorporation, we cannot predict the full impact of such conditions on us in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances occur. If many of our employees are called for active duty, our operations in Israel and our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association, and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith and customary manner in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders, and to refrain from misusing his power, including, among other things, when voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable to shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of ass ociation, increases in a company’s authorized share capital and mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. A shareholder also has a general duty to refrain from oppressing any other shareholder of his or her rights as a shareholder. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who, under our Articles of Association, has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company, has a duty of fairness toward the company. Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness, but provides that remedies generally available upon a breach of contract will apply also in the event of a breach of the duty to act with fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that g overn shareholder behavior. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or otherwise encumber a merger with or an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control, even when the terms of such transaction are favorable to us and our shareholders. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. For example, a merger may not be completed unless at least 50 days have passed from the date that a merger proposal was filed by each merging company with the Israel Registrar of Companies and at least 30 days from the date that the shareholders of both merging companies approved the merger. In addition, a majority of each class of securities of the target company is required to approve a merger. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactio ns unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax-free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. With respect to mergers, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of numerous conditions, including a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which time sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are restricted. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when the time expires, tax then becomes payable even if no actual disposition of the shares has occurred. These provisions of Israeli law could delay, prevent or impede a merger with or an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control, even when the terms of such transaction are favor able to us and our shareholders and therefore potentially depress the price of our shares. 22 Our shareholders may face difficulties in the enforcement of civil liabilities against Vuance Ltd. and its officers and directors. Certain of our officers and directors and our professional advisors are residents of Israel or otherwise reside outside of the U.S. Vuance Ltd. is incorporated under Israeli law and its principal office and facilities are located in Israel. All or a substantial portion of the assets of such persons are or may be located outside of the U.S. It may be difficult to effect service of process within the U.S. upon us or upon any such officers and directors or professional advisors or to realize in the U.S. upon judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability of Vuance Ltd. or such persons under U.S. federal securities laws. We have been advised by our Israeli counsel that there is doubt as to whether Israeli courts would (i) enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against Vuance Ltd. or such officers and directors or professi onal advisors predicated solely upon the civil liabilities provisions of U.S. federal securities laws, or (ii) impose liabilities in original actions against Vuance Ltd. or such officers and directors and professional advisors predicated solely upon such U.S. laws. However, in accordance with the Israeli Law on Enforcement of Foreign Judgments, 1958-5718, and subject to certain time limitations, an Israel court may declare a foreign (including U.S.) civil judgment enforceable if it finds that: ћ the judgment was rendered by a court which was, according to the laws of the state of the court, competent to render the judgment; ћ the judgment may no longer be appealed; ћ the judgment is executory in the jurisdiction in which it was given; ћ the obligation, the subject matter of the judgment, is enforceable under Israeli laws of enforcement of judgments and is not contrary to public policy; ћ due process has been observed; ћ such judgment was rendered by a court which was competent to render such judgment according to the rules of private international law, as applicable in Israel; ћ such judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and ћ an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court or tribunal at the time the law suit is instituted in the foreign court. Even if these conditions are satisfied, an Israeli court will not enforce a foreign judgment if it was given in a state whose laws do not provide for the enforcement of judgments of Israeli courts (subject to exceptional cases) or if its enforcement is likely to prejudice the sovereignty or security of the State of Israel. The term “prejudice the sovereignty or security of the State of Israel” as used in the Israeli Law on Enforcement of Foreign Judgments has rarely been interpreted by Israeli courts; therefore, there is only limited guidance as to what criteria will be considered by an Israeli court in determining whether the enforcement of a foreign judgment would prejudice the sovereignty or security of the State of Israel. An investor may also find it difficult to bring an original action in an Israeli court to enforce liabilities based upon U.S. federal securities laws against us or against our directors or officers. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws and rule that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear such a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may affect our operating results. We incur expenses for our operations in Israel in New Israeli Shekels ("NIS") and translate these amounts into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting consolidated results. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our expenses and results of operations, as well as the value of our assets and liabilities. Fluctuations may adversely affect the comparability of period-to-period results. In addition, we hold foreign currency balances, primarily NIS, that will create foreign exchange gains or losses, depending upon the relative values of the foreign currency, at the beginning and end of the reporting period, affecting our net income and earnings per share. Although we may use hedging techniques in the future (which we currently do not use), we will not be able to eliminate the effects of currency fluctuations. Thus, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock price. (See also Item 15, "Impact of Inflation and Currency Fluctuations") 23 We are exposed to special risks in foreign markets which may make operating in those markets difficult and thereby force us to curtail our business operations. In conducting our business in foreign countries, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in other countries. For instance, business development in Hong Kong and China is time consuming and risky due to the uncertain political, regulatory and legal environment. Other risks inherent to operating in other countries range from difficulties in settling transactions in emerging markets to possible nationalization, expropriation, price control and other restrictive governmental actions. We also face the risk that exchange controls or similar restrictions imposed by foreign governmental authorities may restrict our ability to convert local currency received or held by it in their countries into U.S. dollars or other currencies, or to take those dollars or other currencies out of those countries. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, and the continuing threat of global terrorism, have increased financial expectations in our industries that may not materialize. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and continuing concerns about global terrorism, may have created an increased awareness for our security solutions in general. However, it is uncertain whether the actual level of demand for our products and services will grow as a result of such increased awareness. Increased demand may not result in an actual increase in our revenues. In addition, it is uncertain which security solutions, if any, will be adopted as a result of terrorism and whether our products will be a part of those solutions. The efforts of the U.S. in the war against terrorism, the war in Iraq, and the post-war reconstruction efforts in Iraq, may actually delay funding for the implementation of security solutions generally in the U.S. Even if our products are considered or adopted as solutions to terrorism concerns, the l evel and timeliness of available funding are unclear. These factors may adversely impact us and create unpredictability in our revenues and operating results. We are unlikely to pay dividends in the foreseeable future and any return on investment may be limited to the value of our ordinary shares. We distributed a cash dividend to our shareholders on one occasion on August 26, 1997 in the aggregate amount of NIS 1 million and prior to that dividends in the form of bonus shares were distributed on two other occasions. We do not expect to declare or pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future and intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. If we do not pay dividends, our ordinary shares may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our share price appreciates. Servicing our debt obligations requires a significant amount of cash, and our ability to obtain or generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations, including making the payments under the convertible bonds we issued in November 2006, to Brevan Howard Master Fund Limited ("BH") and to Special Situation Funds (the “Convertible Bonds”) will depend, among other things, upon our future operating performance and our ability to refinance indebtedness when necessary. Each of these factors is to a large extent dependent on economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If, in the future, we cannot generate sufficient cash from our operations to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to reduce or delay capital expenditures or curtail research and development efforts. In addition, we may need to refinance our debt, obtain additional financing or sell assets, which we may not be able to do on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow, or that we will be able to obtain funding, sufficient to satisfy our debt service obligations. In addition, we may need additional capital even to satisfy our present requirements if we undertake large projects or have a delay in one of our anticipated projects. If we fail to raise such additional capital, we may need to implement certain operational changes in order to decrease our expendit ure level. Our need for additional capital to finance our operations and growth will be greater should, among other things, our revenue or expense estimates prove to be incorrect. In addition, continuation of the Company's current operations after utilizing its current cash reserves is dependent upon the generation of additional financial resources either through the issuance of additional equity or debt securities or other sources of financing or the sale of certain assets of the Company. These matters raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. 24 Restrictions imposed by our Convertible Bonds and other debt instruments may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. Our failure to comply with our obligations under these instruments could lead to an acceleration of our indebtedness. The indenture governing the Convertible Bonds contains certain covenants that will, among other things, limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: (i) create liens; (ii) sell or otherwise dispose of assets; (iii) engage in transactions with our affiliates; and (iv) merge or consolidate with another entity or transfer all or substantially all of our assets. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or capital expenditures, withstand economic downturns in our business, the industry or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that arise. Our failure to make payments due under our debt instruments, or to otherwise comply with the restrictions or our obligations thereunder, could result in an event of default under such instruments and lead to an acceleration of our related indebtedness. In the event of such a default, we are not certain whether we would have, or would be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make the accelerated payments, and as a result certain lenders would be able to proceed against certain of our assets that secure the debt. As of December 31, 2009 and the filing date of this Form 20-F, we are in compliance with the terms and conditions of our Convertible Bond agreements, as amended. See Item 5.B, “Liquidity and Capital Resources,” regarding the amendments to the Convertible Bonds. The number of ordinary shares that are available for sale upon exercise of our outstanding warrants, options and convertible bonds is significant in relation to our currently outstanding ordinary shares. Sales of a significant number of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that they may occur, may depress the market price for our ordinary shares. The number of ordinary shares available for sale upon the exercise of our outstanding warrants, options and convertible bonds is significant in relation to the number of ordinary shares currently outstanding. As of May 31, 2010, 7,262,882 of our ordinary shares were outstanding. In addition, we had a total of 1,392,458 ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options, which we have issued to our employees and certain other persons at various prices, some of which have exercise prices below the current market price for our ordinary shares. As of May 31, 2010, we had a total of 1,212,552 ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants issued to investors and consultants, at various prices, which expire between 2010 and 2016. As of May 31, 2010, we had a total of 1,041,189 ordinary shares issuable upon the conversion of convertible bonds. As of May 31, 2010, our registered capital permitted us to issue up to additional 1,090,919 ordinary shares in connection with future grants of options, warrants, shares and other financial instruments. If our warrant or option holders exercise their warrants or options, or holders of convertible bonds covert their bonds into ordinary shares, and determine to sell a substantial number of shares into the market at any given time, there may not be sufficient demand in the market to purchase the shares without a decline in the market price for our ordinary shares. Moreover, continuous sales into the market of a number of shares in excess of the typical trading volume for our ordinary shares, or even the availability of such a large number of shares or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause substantial dilution to existing shareholders, decrease the market price of our ordinary shares, and impair our ability to raise capital in the future. Our ordinary shares were delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, which could negatively impact the price of our ordinary shares. On December 11, 2008, we received a letter from the NASDAQ Capital Market (“NASDAQ") advising us that we did not comply with the continued listing requirements of Listing Rule 5550(b) (formerly Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(3)), which requires us to have a minimum of $2.5 million in stockholders’ equity, or $35 million in market value of listed securities, or $500,000 of net income from continuing operations for the most recently completed fiscal year or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years (the “Listing Requirements”). As a result, the NASDAQ Staff began reviewing our eligibility for continued listing on NASDAQ. To facilitate their review, the NASDAQ Staff requested that we provide on or before December 26, 2008, our specific plan to achieve and sustain compliance with the NASDAQ listing requirements, including the time frame for completion of the plan (the “Plan”). After we submitted the Plan, on March 30, 2009 we received further correspondence from NASDAQ that we did not comply with the Listing Requirements, and therefore, trading of our ordinary shares would be suspended at the opening of business on April 8, 2009, and a form 25-NSE would be filed with the SEC removing our securities from listing and registration on NASDAQ, unless we requested an appeal of the delisting decision by NASDAQ. 25 We appealed the NASDAQ determination to a NASDAQ Listings Qualifications Panel (the “Panel”), which automatically stayed the delisting of our ordinary shares until the Panel reached a decision. On June 17, 2009, the Panel granted our request for an extension of time to achieve full compliance with the Listing Requirements. On September 29, 2009 we received a NASDAQ Staff Determination letter indicating that we failed to comply with the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement of $2.5 million as set forth in Listing Rule 5550(b) (formerly Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(3)). As a result, our securities were delisted from The Nasdaq Stock Market and trading in our shares was suspended effective at the open of business on October 1, 2009. We had been advised by Pink OTC Markets Inc., which operates an electronic quotation service for securities traded over-the-counter, that our securities were immediately eligible for quotation in the Pink Sheets effective as of the open of business on October 1, 2009. Our ordinary shares are currently quoted under the ticker symbol “VUNCF”. The delisting of our ordinary shares significantly affects the ability of investors to trade our securities and negatively affects the value and liquidity of our ordinary shares. In addition, the delisting of our ordinary shares could also have a material adverse affect on our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Delisting from NASDAQ could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. "Penny stock" rules may make buying or selling our ordinary shares difficult, severely limiting the market price of our ordinary shares and the liquidity of our shares in the U.S. Trading in our ordinary shares may be subject to the "penny stock" regulations adopted by the SEC. These regulations generally define a "penny stock" to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. These rules require that any broker-dealer who recommends our securities to persons other than prior customers and accredited investors must, prior to the sale, make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to execute the transaction. Unless an exception is available, the regulations require delivery, prior to any transaction involving a "penny stock," of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with trading in the penny stock market. In addition, broker-dealers must disclo se commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and registered representative and current quotations for the securities they offer. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our stock, which could severely limit the market price and liquidity of our stock. Our default under certain registration rights agreements may result in liquidated damages. In connection with private placements completed in September 2004 and December 2005, in which we issued to the investors ordinary shares and warrants to purchase our ordinary shares, we entered into registration rights agreements pursuant to which we undertook to register such ordinary shares in accordance with the Securities Act of 1933. Accordingly, we filed Forms F-1 on November 2004 and January 5, 2006. Our failure to properly update the Forms (and to make subsequent registrations) in accordance with the registration rights agreements could result in an event of default under such agreements and subject us to liquidated damages. We have a shareholder that is able to exercise substantial influence over us and all matters submitted to our shareholders which may make us difficult to be acquired and less attractive to new investors. Special Situations Fund III, L.P. and its affiliates (collectively, “SSF”) beneficially own 1,007,359 of our ordinary shares, representing approximately 13.87% of our outstanding ordinary shares, based on 7,262,882 ordinary shares currently outstanding. In addition, SSF own warrants exercisable for an additional 250,952 ordinary shares and Convertible Bond for additional 207,855 ordinary shares. Such ownership interest gives SSF substantial influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders, including the election of directors and the adoption of a merger agreement, and such influence could make us a less attractive acquisition or investment target. In addition, our officers and directors beneficially own a significant amount of our ordinary shares, which may have a similar effect to SSF's ownership of our ordinary shares. 26 If persons engage in short sales of our ordinary shares, including sales of shares to be issued upon the exercise of our outstanding warrants, options and convertible bonds, the price of our ordinary shares may decline. Selling short is a technique used by a stockholder to take advantage of an anticipated decline in the price of a security. In addition, holders of options, warrants and convertible bonds will sometimes sell short knowing they can, in effect, cover the sale through the exercise of an option, warrant or convertible bond, thus locking in a profit. A significant number of short sales or a large volume of other sales within a relatively short period of time can create downward pressure on the market price of a security. Further sales of ordinary shares issued upon exercise of our outstanding warrants, options or convertible bonds could cause even greater declines in the price of our ordinary shares due to the number of additional shares available in the market upon such exercise or conversion, which could encourage short sales that could f urther undermine the value of our ordinary shares. You could, therefore, experience a decline in the value of your investment as a result of short sales of our ordinary shares. Costs arising from our future acquisitions and dispositions could adversely affect our financial condition. Any acquisition or disposition that we make could result in the use of our cash, incurrence and assumption of debt, contingent liabilities, significant acquisition-related expenses, amortization of certain identifiable intangible assets, and research and development write-offs, and could require us to record goodwill and other intangible assets that could result in future impairments that could harm our financial results. We will likely incur significant transaction costs pursuing acquisitions or dispositions, including acquisitions or dispositions that may not be consummated. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenues from our acquisitions or dispositions to offset their costs, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition. The recognition of impairments of tangible, intangible and financial assets results i n a non-cash charge on the income statement, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Being a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain SEC requirements. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to U.S. public companies including: ћ the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; ћ the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; ћ the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and ћ the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). Because of these exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the U.S. We could face additional costs or liabilities arising from the winding down of our operations through SuperCom Asia Pacific Limited (“SuperCom Asia Pacific”). SuperCom Asia Pacific, incorporated in Hong Kong, has been our wholly-owned subsidiary since November 2003, and is responsible for our sales and marketing efforts in Asia Pacific. In the third quarter of 2009, we began to wind down our operations through SuperCom Asia Pacific and as a result may be subject in the future to claims from former employees of SuperCom Asia Pacific. To our knowledge, no such claims have been lodged to date. To the best of our knowledge, as of December 31, 2009, all required allowances in connection with such potential claims are included in our financial statements. 27 