D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks together with the other information in this Annual Report in evaluating our business, financial condition and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we consider immaterial may also impair our business operations, financial results and prospects. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial results and prospects could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and related notes and the Section captioned “Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business We require capital to fund our growth and may need to reduce the scope of our operations if it is not available In the past, we have partially funded our operations through the issuance of equity securities and convertible bonds to investors and may not be able to generate a positive cash flow from operations in the future. Continuation of our current operations after utilizing our current cash reserves may be dependent upon the generation of additional financial resources either through the issuance of additional equity or debt securities or other sources of financing, generating cash flow from operations. Any additional financings will likely cause substantial dilution to existing shareholders. If we are unable to obtain necessary additional financing or generate cash from operations, we may be required to reduce the scope of our operations. Even if we raise such additional capital, we may be required to reduce the scope of our operations and may need to implement certain operational changes in order to decrease our expenditure level. Our need for additional capital to finance our operations and growth will be greater should, among other things, our revenue or expense estimates prove to be incorrect. The current economic and financial crisis may have a material adverse effect on our results. The crisis of the financial and credit markets worldwide in the second half of 2008 has led to an economic slowdown worldwide, and the outlook for 2013 is uncertain. A continuation or worsening of unfavorable economic conditions, including the on-going credit and capital markets disruptions, could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways. We may experience declines in revenues, profitability and cash flows as a result of reduced orders, delays in receiving orders or in the completion of projects, delays or defaults in payment or other factors caused by the economic problems of our customers and prospective customers. We may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other problems associated with financial constraints faced by our suppliers and subcontractors. In addition, changes and volatility in the equity, credit and foreign exchange markets and in the competitive landscape make it increasingly difficult for us to predict our revenues and earnings into the future. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may impact our ability to access liquidity and capital. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption in recent years. We need liquidity in our day-to-day business activities to pay our operating expenses. We may be required to raise financing to fund our operations. The availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. If our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, there is a risk that external funding sources might not be available or available at unfavorable terms. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to raise additional capital to support business growth. 8 This would have the potential to decrease both our ability to attain profitability and our financial flexibility. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and regulatory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. Depending on the effect on our business of the current economic and financial crisis, we may face problems in managing any decline in our business. If the current economic and financial crisis continues to have an adverse impact on the demand for our products or their profitability, we may face difficulties in managing a decline in our business. Our success in handling a contraction of our business will depend on our ability, among other things, to: — develop efficient forecast methods for evaluating the prospective quantity of products that will be ordered by our customers; — control inventories of components ordered by our contract manufacturers required to meet actual demand, including but not limited to handling the effects of excess inventories accumulated by such manufacturers; — reduce the costs of manufacturing our products; — continue to collect receivables from our customers in full and in a timely manner; and — properly balance the size and capabilities of our workforce. If we are unable to manage a decline in business, we could fail to manage the costs associated with all aspects of our business, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from one customer, and the reduction of sales to this customer could adversely impact our operating results by causing a drop in revenues. We depend on one customer for a substantial portion of our revenue. In 2012 and 2011, we derived 64% and 95%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenue from one customer. A substantial reduction in sales to, or loss of, our significant customer would adversely affect our business unless we were able to replace the revenue we received from the customer, which replacement we may not be able to find. Specifically, changes that may negatively impact the political or economic stability and environment of the European country from which we derive most of our consolidated net revenues, could adversely affect our business and future operations in such country. As a result of this concentration of revenue from a limited number of customers and our increased reliance on our e-ID, electronic monitoring PURERF tm Suite and products, resulting from our sale of certain assets and liabilities related to the electronic access control market and our Government Services Division including our CSMS and RAPTOR suites, our revenue has experienced wide fluctuations, and we expect our revenue to continue to experience wide fluctuations in the future. Part of our sales is not recurring sales; therefore, quarterly and annual sales levels could fluctuate. Sales in any period may not be indicative of sales in future periods. Our reliance on third party technologies, raw materials and components for the development of some of our products and our reliance on third parties for manufacturing may delay product launches, impair our ability to develop and deliver products or hurt our ability to compete in the market. Most of our products integrate third-party technology that we license and/or raw materials and components that we purchase or otherwise obtain the right to use, including: operating systems, microchips, security and cryptography technology for card operating systems, which prevents unauthorized parties from tampering with our cards, and dual interface technology, which enables cards to operate in both contact and contactless mode. Our ability to purchase and license new technologies and components from third parties is and will continue to be critical to our ability to offer a complete line of products that meets customer needs and technological requirements. We may not be able to renew our existing licenses or to purchase components and raw materials on favorable terms, if at all. If we lose the rights to a patented technology, we may need to stop selling or may need to redesign our products that incorporate that technology, and we may lose the potential competitive advantage such technology gave us. In addition, competitors could obtain licenses for technologies for which we are unable to obtain licenses, and third parties may develop or enable others to develop a similar solution to security issues, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Also, dependence on the patent protection of third parties may not afford us any control over the protection of the technologies upon which we rely. If the patent protection of any of these third parties were compromised, our ability to compete in the market could also be impaired. 9 We usually do not have minimum supply commitments from our vendors for our raw materials or components and generally purchase raw materials and components on a purchase order basis. Although we generally use standard raw materials and components for our systems, some of the key raw materials or components are available only from from limited sources. Many of our products are only available from limited sources. Even where multiple sources are available, we typically obtain components and raw materials from only one vendor to ensure high quality, prompt delivery and low cost. If one of our suppliers were unable to meet our supply demands and we could not quickly replace the source of supply, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, for reasons including a delay of receipt of revenues and damage to our business reputation. Delays in deliveries from our suppliers, defects in goods or components supplied by our vendors, or delays in projects that are performed by our subcontractors could cause our revenues and gross margins to decline. We rely on a limited number of vendors and subcontractors for certain components of the products we are supplying and projects we perform. In some cases, we rely on a single source vendor or subcontractor. Any undetected flaws in components or other materials to be supplied by our vendors could lead to unanticipated costs to repair or replace these parts or materials. Even though there are multiple suppliers, we purchase some of our components from single suppliers to take advantage of volume discounts, which presents a risk that the components may not be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Although we believe that there are additional suppliers for the equipment and supplies that we require, we may not be able to make such alternative arrangements promptly. If one of our suppliers were unable to meet our supply demands and we could not quickly replace the source of supply, it could cause a delay of receipt of revenues and damage our business reputation. We depend on subcontractors to adequately perform a substantial part of our projects. If a subcontractor fails to fulfill its obligations under a certain project, it could delay our receipt of revenues for such project and damage our business reputation, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may pursue acquisitions or investments in complementary technologies and businesses. We may be unsuccessful in integrating the acquired businesses and/or complementary technologies and businesses, the acquisition of which we may pursue in the future, and such integrations could divert our resources and adversely affect our financial results. Other than Intelli-Site and SHC, we have not made, in the last five (5) years any other acquisitions. Integrating newly acquired business or technologies into our business could divert our management’s attention from other business concerns and could be expensive and time-consuming. Acquisitions could expose our business to unforeseen liabilities or risks associated with entering new markets. Consequently, we might not be successful in integrating the acquired businesses, technologies or products into our existing business and products, and might not achieve anticipated revenue or cost benefits. In the future, we may pursue acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary technologies and businesses. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future or to make these acquisitions on a commercially reasonable basis, or at all. Such acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs and reduce the value to us of the acquired company. For example, if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms. In addition, future acquisitions could result in customer dissatisfaction and performance problems with an acquired company, which could adversely affect our business. Costs arising from our future acquisitions and dispositions could adversely affect our financial condition. Any acquisition or disposition that we make could result in the use of our cash or equity securities, incurrence and assumption of debt, contingent liabilities, significant acquisition-related expenses, amortization of certain identifiable intangible assets, and research and development write-offs, and could require us to record goodwill and other intangible assets that could result in future impairments that could harm our financial results. We will likely incur significant transaction costs pursuing acquisitions or dispositions, including acquisitions or dispositions that may not be consummated. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenues from our acquisitions or dispositions to offset their costs, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition. The recognition of impairments of tangible, intangible and financial assets results in a non-cash charge on the income statement, which could adversely affect our results of operations Our dependence on third-party distributors, sales agents and value-added resellers could result in marketing and distribution delays, which would prevent us from generating sales revenues. We market and sell some of our products using a network of distributors covering the United States and parts of Europe. We establish relationships with distributors and resellers through agreements that provide prices, discounts and other material terms and conditions under which the reseller is eligible to purchase our systems and products for resale. These agreements generally do not grant exclusivity to the distributors and resellers and, as a general matter, are not long-term contracts, do not have commitments for minimum sales, and could be terminated by the distributor. We do not have agreements with all of our distributors. We are currently engaged in discussions with other potential distributors, sales agents, and value-added resellers. Such arrangements may never be finalized and, if finalized, such arrangements may not increase our revenues or enable us to achieve profitability. 10 Our ability to terminate a distributor who is not performing satisfactorily may be limited. Inadequate performance by a distributor could adversely affect our ability to develop markets in the regions for which the distributor is responsible and could result in substantially greater expenditures by us in order to develop such markets. Our operating results will be highly dependent upon: (i) our ability to maintain our existing distributor arrangements; (ii) our ability to establish and maintain coverage of major geographic areas and establish access to customers and markets; and (iii) the ability of our distributors, sales agents, and value-added resellers to successfully market our products. A failure to achieve these objectives could result in lower revenues. Third parties could obtain access to our proprietary information or could independently develop similar technologies. Despite the precautions we take, third parties may copy or obtain and use our technologies, ideas, know-how and other proprietary information without authorization or may independently develop technologies similar or superior to our technologies. In addition, the confidentiality and non-competition agreements between us and most of our employees, distributors and clients may not provide meaningful protection of our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. If we are not able to successfully defend our industrial or intellectual property rights, we may lose rights to technologies that we need to develop our business, which may cause us to lose potential revenues, or we may be required to pay significant license fees for the use of such technologies. To date, we have relied primarily on a combination of trade secret and copyright laws, as well as nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions on copying, reverse engineering and distribution to protect our proprietary technology. We have no patents or patent applications, and any patents that we may register in the future may provide only limited protection for our technology and may not be sufficient to provide competitive advantages to us. For example, competitors could be successful in challenging any issued patents or, alternatively, could develop similar or more advantageous technologies on their own or design around our patents. Any inability to protect intellectual property rights in our technology could enable third parties to compete more effectively with us and/or could reduce our ability to compete. In addition, these efforts to protect our intellectual property rights could require us to incur substantial costs even when our efforts are successful. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of Israel or the United States. Our means of protecting our intellectual property rights in Israel, the United States or any other country in which we operate may not be adequate to fully protect our intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. We may face intellectual property litigation, which could be costly, harm our reputation, limit our ability to sell our products, force us to modify our products or obtain appropriate licenses, and divert the attention of management and technical personnel. Our products employ technology that may infringe on the proprietary rights of others, and, as a result, we could become liable for significant damages and suffer other harm to our business. Other than the litigation with Secu-Systems Ltd., as described in Item 8 below under the caption “Legal Proceedings,” we have not been subject to intellectual property litigation to date. We have received demand letters in the past alleging that products or processes of ours are in breach of patents, which we have denied, but no lawsuits have been filed in respect of such claims. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce any patents we may obtain and/or any other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity, and we may not prevail in any such future litigation. Litigation, whether or not determined in our favor or settled, could be costly, could harm our reputation and could divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from normal business operations. In addition, adverse determinations in litigation could result in the loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses from third parties, prevent us from licensing our technology or selling or manufacturing our products, or require us to expend significant resources to modify our products or attempt to develop non-infringing technology, any of which could seriously harm our business. Our products may contain technology provided to us by third parties. Because we did not develop such technology ourselves, we may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether such technology infringes the intellectual property rights of any other party. Our suppliers and licensors may not be required to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only with respect to intellectual property infringement claims in certain jurisdictions, and/or only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages. In addition, we have indemnification obligations to certain parties, as well as to OTI, with respect to any infringement of third-party patents and intellectual property rights by our products. If litigation were to be filed against these parties in connection with our technology, we would be required to defend and indemnify such parties. 11 We may be plaintiff or defendant in various legal actions from time to time. From time to time, we are the defendant or plaintiff in various legal actions, which arise in the normal course of business. We are required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as potential ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of reserves required for these contingencies, if any, which would be charged to earnings, is made after careful and considered analysis of each individual action with our legal advisors. The required reserves may change in the future due to new developments in each matter or changes in circumstances, such as a change in settlement strategy. A change in the required reserves would affect our earnings in the period the change is made. For more information on the above and our ongoing litigation see under the caption “Legal Proceedings” in Item 8. A security breach of our internal systems or those of our customers could harm our business by adversely affecting the market's perception of our products and services, thereby causing our revenues to decline. For us to further penetrate the marketplace, the marketplace must be confident that we provide effective security protection for national and other secured identification documents and cards. Although we have not experienced any act of sabotage or unauthorized access by a third party of our software or technology to date, if an actual or perceived breach of security occurs in our internal systems or those of our customers, regardless of whether we caused the breach, it could adversely affect the market's perception of our products and services. This could cause us to lose customers, resellers, alliance partners or other business partners, thereby causing our revenues to decline. If we or our customers were to experience a breach of our internal systems, our business could be severely harmed by adversely affecting the market's perception of our products and services. We may be exposed to significant liability for actual or perceived failure to provide required products or services, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business by causing our revenues to decline and our costs to rise. Products as complex as those we offer may contain undetected errors or may fail when first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite our product testing efforts and testing by current and potential customers, it is possible that errors will be found in new products or enhancements after commencement of commercial shipments. The occurrence of product defects or errors could result in adverse publicity, delay in product introduction, diversion of resources to remedy defects, loss of or a delay in market acceptance, or claims by customers against us, or could cause us to incur additional costs or lose revenues, any of which could adversely affect our business. Our failure or inability to meet a customer's expectations in the performance of our services, or to do so in the time frame required by the customer, regardless of our responsibility for the failure, could result in a claim for substantial damages against us by the customer, discourage other customers from engaging us for these services, and damage our business reputation. We carry product liability insurance, but existing coverage may not be adequate to cover potential claims. We do not maintain insurance coverage for professional liability, for theft by employees, nor do we maintain specific insurance coverage for any interruptions in our business operations. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductibles or co-insurance requirements, could adversely affect our business by significantly increasing our costs. Our efforts to expand our international operations are subject to a number of risks, any of which could adversely reduce our future international sales and increase our losses. Most of our revenues to date have been generated in jurisdictions other than the United States. Our inability to obtain or maintain federal or foreign regulatory approvals relating to the import or export of our products on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to expand our international business. Additionally, our international operations could be subject to a number of risks, any of which could adversely affect our future international sales and operating results, including: · increased collection risks; · trade restrictions; · export duties and tariffs; · uncertain political, regulatory and economic developments; 12 · inability to protect our intellectual property rights; · highly aggressive competitors; and · currency issues. In addition, in many countries the national security organizations require our employees to obtain clearance before such employees can work on a particular transaction. Failure to receive or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could also have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain sales at all or on a timely basis. Additionally, as foreign government regulators have become increasingly stringent, we may be subject to more rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the future. If we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business will be harmed. We have sought in the past and may seek in the future to enter into contracts with governments, as well as state and local governmental agencies and municipalities, which subjects us to certain risks associated with such types of contracts. Most contracts with governments or with state or local agencies or municipalities (“Governmental Contracts”) are awarded through a competitive bidding process, and some of the business that we expect to seek in the future will likely be subject to a competitive bidding process. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including: · the frequent need to compete against companies or teams of companies with more financial and marketing resources and more experience than we have in bidding on and performing major contracts; · the need to compete against companies or teams of companies that may be long-term, entrenched incumbents for a particular contract we are competing for and which have, as a result, greater domain expertise and established customer relations; · the substantial cost and managerial time and effort necessary to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; · the need to accurately estimate the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any fixed-price contract that we are awarded; and · the expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge new contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding or subsequent contract modifications, and the risk that any of these protests or challenges could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. We may not be afforded the opportunity in the future to bid on contracts that are held by other companies, and are scheduled to expire, if the governments, or the applicable state or local agency or municipality determines to extend the existing contract. If we are unable to win particular contracts that are awarded through the competitive bidding process, we may not be able to operate in the market for the products and services that are provided under those contracts for a number of years. If we are unable to win new contract awards or retain those contracts, if any, that we are awarded over any extended period, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. In addition, Governmental Contracts subject us to risks associated with public budgetary restrictions and uncertainties, actual contracts that are less than awarded contract amounts, and cancellation at any time at the option of the governmental agency. Any failure to comply with the terms of any Governmental Contracts could result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties, as well as suspension from future contracts for a significant period of time, any of which could adversely affect our business by requiring us to pay significant fines and penalties or prevent us from earning revenues from Governmental Contracts during the suspension period. Cancellation of any one of our major Governmental Contracts could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Governments, may be in a position to obtain greater rights with respect to our intellectual property than we would grant to other entities. Governmental agencies also have the power, based on financial difficulties or investigations of their contractors, to deem contractors unsuitable for new contract awards. Because we will engage in the government contracting business, we will be subject to audits, and may be subject to investigation, by governmental entities. Failure to comply with the terms of any Governmental Contracts could result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties, as well as suspension from future contracts for a significant period of time, any of which could adversely affect our business by requiring us to pay the fines and penalties and prohibiting us from earning revenues from Governmental Contracts during the suspension period. Furthermore, governmental programs can experience delays or cancellation of funding, which can be unpredictable; this may make it difficult to forecast our revenues on a quarter-by-quarter basis. 13 Some of the markets that we target for a substantial part of our future growth are in very early stages of development, and if they do not develop, our business may not grow as much or as profitably as we hope. Some of the markets that we target for our future growth are small and need to develop if we are to achieve our growth objectives. If some or all of these markets do not develop, or if they develop more slowly than we anticipate, then we will not grow as quickly or as profitably as we hope. In February 2006, we announced the introduction of a new technology and solution for actively tracking people, objects and assets, Active RFID Tracking technologies and products (“PureRF”). This technology was developed in response to growing market demand for asset/ people tracking and monitoring solutions in the homeland security and commercial markets. Although we believe the government market is critical to our success in the short term, we believe that both the government and commercial markets will be critical to our long-term success. The development of these markets will depend on many factors that are beyond our control, including the following factors (and other factors discussed elsewhere in the Risk Factors): (i) there can be no assurances that we will be able to continue to apply our expertise and solutions developed for the government market to the commercial market; (ii) the ability of the commercial markets to adopt and implement the active RFID solutions; and (iii) the ability of our management to successfully market our technologies to such government and/or commercial entities. The success of our active RFID & mobile based business lines is dependent on several factors. The success of our active RFID & mobile based business lines is dependent on several factors, including proper new product definitions, product costs, timely completion and introduction of the new product, differentiation of the new product from those of our competitors, and market acceptance of the product, as well as our existing and potential customers’ varying budgets for capital expenditures and new product introduction. We have addressed the need to develop new products through our internal development efforts. In light of the OTI transaction and the sale of certain assets and liabilities related to our electronic access control market and our Government Services Division including our CSMS and RAPTOR suites, the active RFID & mobile based business lines is anticipated to be our main revenue growth generator in the future. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities and/or develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner, or that the products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. The failure of our new product development efforts could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and future growth. If our technology and solutions ceases to be adopted and used by government and commercial organizations, we may lose some of our existing customers and increase our losses. Our ability to grow depends significantly on whether governmental and commercial organizations adopt our technology and solutions as part of their new standards and whether we will be able to leverage our expertise with government products into commercial products. If these organizations do not adopt our technology, we might not be able to penetrate some of the new markets we are targeting, or we might lose some of our existing customer base. In order for us to achieve our growth objectives, our RFID & mobile based technology must be adapted to and adopted in a variety of areas, including, but not limited to: · Public safety and Emergency; · Community Monitoring and Law Enforcement · Animal monitoring and management; · Health Care and Home Care; and · access control Any or all of these areas may not adopt our RFID & mobile based technology. We cannot accurately predict the future growth rate, if any, or the ultimate size of the RFID & mobile based markets. The expansion of the market for our products and services depends on a number of factors such as: · the cost, performance and reliability of our products and services compared to the products and services of our competitors; · customer perception of the benefits of our RFID & mobile based solutions; · public perception of the intrusiveness of these solutions and the manner in which organizations use the information collected; · public perception of the confidentiality of private information; · customer satisfaction with our products and services; and · marketing efforts and publicity for our products and services. 14 Even if our RFID & mobile based solutions gain wide market acceptance, our products and services may not adequately address market requirements and may not gain wide market acceptance. If our solutions or our products and services do not gain wide market acceptance, our business and our financial results will suffer. We need to develop our position as a provider of RFID & Mobile based solutions and services to earn high margins from our technology, and if we are unable to develop such position, our business will not be as profitable as we hope, if at all. The increasing sophistication of our RFID & Mobile based technology places a premium on providing innovative software systems and services to customers, in addition to manufacturing and supplying RFID technology. While we have had some early success positioning ourselves as a provider of such services and systems, we may not continue to be successful with this strategy and we may not be able to capture a significant share of the market for the sophisticated solutions and services that we believe are likely to produce attractive margins in the future. A significant portion of the value of our RFID & Mobile based technology lies in the development of software and applications that will permit the use of RFID & Mobile based technology in the new selected new markets. In contrast, the margins involved in manufacturing and selling RFID & Mobile based technology can be relatively small, and may not be sufficient to permit us to earn an attractive return on our development investments. The time from our initial contact with a customer to a sale may be long and subject to delays, which could result in the postponement of our receipt of revenues from one accounting period to the next, increasing the variability of our results of operations and causing significant fluctuations in our revenue from quarter to quarter. The period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the purchase of our products and services is often long and subject to delays associated with the budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes that frequently accompany significant capital expenditures, particularly by governmental agencies. The typical sales cycle for our government customers has, to date, ranged from nine to 24 months and the typical sales cycle for our commercial customers has ranged from one to six months. A lengthy sales cycle may have an impact on the timing of our revenue, which may cause our quarterly operating results to fall below investor expectations. We believe that a customer's decision to purchase our products and services is discretionary, involves a significant commitment of resources, and is influenced by customer budgetary cycles. To successfully sell our products and services, we generally must educate our potential customers regarding their use and benefits, which can require significant time and resources. This significant expenditure of time and resources may not result in actual sales of our products and services. Due to the nature of our business, our financial and operating results could fluctuate. Our financial and operating results have fluctuated in the past and could fluctuate in the future from quarter to quarter and from year to year for the following reasons: · long customer sales cycles; · reduced demand for our products and services; · price reductions; · new competitors, or the introduction of enhanced products or services from new or existing competitors; · changes in the mix of products and services we or our customers and distributors sell; · contract cancellations, delays or amendments by customers; · the lack of government demand for our products and services or the lack of government funds appropriated to purchasing our products and services; · unforeseen legal expenses, including litigation costs; · expenses related to acquisitions; · other non-recurring financial charges; · the lack of availability, or increased cost, of key components and subassemblies; · the inability to successfully manufacture in volume, and reduce the price of, certain of our products; and The lead time for ordering parts for and manufacturing our products can be significantly long and therefore based on forecasted demands rather than actual orders received. The lead time for ordering parts and materials and building many of our products can be many months. As a result, we must order parts and materials and build our products based on forecasted demand. If demand for our products lags significantly behind our forecasts, we may produce more products than we can sell, which can result in cash flow problems and write-offs or write-downs of obsolete inventory. If demand for our products exceeds our forecasts, our business may be harmed as a result of delays to perform contracts. 15 Our markets are highly competitive and competition could harm our ability to sell products and services and could reduce our market share. The market for RFID & Mobile based enabled products is intensely competitive. We expect competition to increase as the industry grows and as RFID & Mobile technology begins to converge with the access control and information technology industry. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. We face competition from technologically sophisticated companies, many of which have substantially greater technical, financial, and marketing resources than we do. In some cases, we compete with entities that have pre-existing relationships with potential customers. As the active RFID& Mobile enabled solutions market expands, we expect additional competitors to enter the market. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have larger technical staffs, larger customer bases, more established distribution channels, greater brand recognition and greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Our competitors may be able to develop products and services that (i) are superior to our products and services, (ii) achieve greater customer acceptance or (iii) have significantly improved functionality as compared to our existing and future products and services. In addition, our competitors may be able to negotiate strategic relationships on more favorable terms than we are able to negotiate. Many of our competitors may also have well-established relationships with our existing and prospective customers. Increased competition may result in our experiencing reduced margins, loss of sales or decreased market share. The average selling prices for our products may decline as a result of competitive pricing pressures, promotional programs and customers who negotiate price reductions in exchange for longer-term purchase commitments. The pricing of products depends on the specific features and functions of the products, purchase volumes and the level of sales and service support required. As we experience pricing pressure, the average selling prices and gross margins for our products may decrease over product lifecycles. These same competitive pressures may require us to write down the carrying value of any inventory on hand, which could adversely affect our operating results and earnings per share. We rely on the services of certain executive officers and key personnel, the loss of which could adversely affect our business. Our future success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and senior management and other key employees, including technical and sales personnel. The loss of the services of any of these persons could adversely affect our business. We do not maintain any "key-person" life insurance with respect to any of our employees. Our ability to remain competitive depends in part on attracting, hiring and retaining qualified technical personnel; if we are not successful in such hiring and retention, our business could be disrupted. Our future success depends in part on the availability of qualified technical personnel, including personnel trained in software and hardware applications within specialized fields. As a result, we may not be able to successfully attract or retain skilled technical employees, which may impede our ability to develop, install, implement and otherwise service our software and hardware systems and to efficiently conduct our operations. The information technology and network security industries are characterized by a high level of employee mobility and the market for technical personnel remains extremely competitive in certain regions, including Israel. This competition means that (i) there are fewer highly qualified employees available for hire, (ii) the costs of hiring and retaining such personnel are high, and (iii) highly qualified employees may not remain with us once hired. Furthermore, there may be pressure to provide technical employees with stock options and other equity interests in us, which may dilute our shareholders and increase our expenses. The additions of new personnel and the departure of existing personnel, particularly in key positions, can be disruptive, might lead to additional departures of existing personnel and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our planned growth will place significant strain on our financial and managerial resources and may negatively affect our results of operations and ability to grow more. Our ability to manage our growth effectively will require us: · to continue to improve our operations, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; · to train, motivate and manage our employees; and · as required, to install new management information systems. 16 Our existing management and any new members of management may not be able to augment or improve existing systems and controls, or implement new systems and controls, in response to anticipated future growth. If we are successful in achieving our growth plans, such growth is likely to place a significant burden on the operating and financial systems, resulting in increased responsibility for our senior management and other personnel. Some of our products are subject to government regulation of radio frequency technology, which could cause a delay in introducing, or an inability to introduce, such products in the United States and other markets. The rules and regulations of the United States Federal Communications Commission (the "FCC") limit the radio frequency used by and level of power emitting from electronic equipment. Our readers, controllers and other radio frequency technology scanning equipment are required to comply with these FCC rules which may require certification, verification or registration of the equipment with the FCC. Certification and verification of new equipment requires testing to ensure the equipment's compliance with the FCC's rules. The equipment must be labeled according to the FCC's rules to show compliance with these rules. Testing, processing of the FCC's equipment certificate or FCC registration and labeling may increase development and production costs and could delay introduction of our verification scanning device and next generation radio frequency technology scanning equipment into the U.S. market. Electronic equipment permitted or authorized to be used by us through FCC certification or verification procedures must not cause harmful interference to licensed FCC users, and may be subject to radio frequency interference from licensed FCC users. Selling, leasing or importing non-compliant equipment is considered a violation of FCC rules and federal law, and violators may be subject to an enforcement action by the FCC. Any failure to comply with the applicable rules and regulations of the FCC could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition by increasing our compliance costs and/or limiting our sales in the United States. We are exposed to special risks in foreign markets which may make operating in those markets difficult and thereby force us to curtail our business operations. In conducting our business in foreign countries, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in other countries. Risks inherent to operating in other countries range from difficulties in settling transactions in emerging markets to possible nationalization, expropriation, price control and other restrictive governmental actions. We also face the risk that exchange controls or similar restrictions imposed by foreign governmental authorities may restrict our ability to convert local currency received or held by it in their countries into U.S. dollars or other currencies, or to take those dollars or other currencies out of those countries. Risks Related to our Location and Incorporation in Israel Conditions in Israel affect our operations in Israel and may limit our ability to sell our products and services. We are incorporated under Israeli law and we also operate offices located in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our operations and business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. In addition, recent civil unrest and political turbulence in various countries in the Middle East and Northern Africa have shaken the stability of those countries. This instability may lead to deterioration of the political and economic relationships that exist between the State of Israel and some of these countries. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in the region, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. These situations may potentially escalate in the future to more violent events which may affect Israel and us. Furthermore, several countries still restrict trade with Israeli companies and additional countries may impose such restrictions as a result of changes in the military and/or political conditions in Israel and/or the surrounding countries, which may limit our ability to make sales in, or purchase components from, those countries. Any future armed conflict, political instability, continued violence in the region or restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of management or key personnel to perform military service in Israel. Generally, all nonexempt male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 40, or older for reserves officers or citizens with certain occupations, as well as certain female adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel, are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty and are subject to being called for active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. While we have operated effectively under these requirements since our incorporation, we cannot predict the full impact of such conditions on us in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances occur. If many of our employees are called for active duty, our operations in Israel and our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. 17 Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association, and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith and customary manner in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders, and to refrain from misusing his power, including, among other things, when voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable to shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital and mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. A shareholder also has a general duty to refrain from exploiting any other shareholder of his or her rights as a shareholder. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who, under our Articles of Association, has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company, has a duty of fairness toward the company. Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness, but provides that remedies generally available upon a breach of contract will apply also in the event of a breach of the duty to act with fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or otherwise encumber a merger with or an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control, even when the terms of such transaction are favorable to us and our shareholders. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. These provisions of Israeli law could delay, prevent or impede a merger with or an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control, even when the terms of such transaction are favorable to us and our shareholders and therefore potentially depress the price of our shares. Our shareholders may face difficulties in the enforcement of civil liabilities against SuperCom Ltd. and its officers and directors and Israeli auditors or in asserting U.S. securities law claims in Israel. Most of our officers and directors and our Israeli auditors are residents of Israel or otherwise reside outside of the United States. SuperCom Ltd. is incorporated under Israeli law and its principal office and facilities are located in Israel. All or a substantial portion of the assets of such persons are or may be located outside of the United States. Therefore, service of process upon SuperCom Ltd., such directors and officers and our Israeli auditors may be difficult to effect in the United States. It also may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against SuperCom Ltd., such officers and directors and our Israeli auditors as any judgment obtained in the United States against such parties may not be collectible in the United States. In addition, it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. However, subject to time limitations, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. judgment in a civil matter, if: • adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; • the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; 18 • the judgment was rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction, in compliance with due process and the rules of private international law prevailing in Israel; • the judgment was not obtained by fraudulent means and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; • no action between the same parties in the same matter is pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in a U.S. court; and • the U.S. courts are not prohibited from enforcing judgments of the Israeli courts. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may affect our operating results. We incur expenses for our operations in Israel in New Israeli Shekels ("NIS") and translate these amounts into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting consolidated results. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our expenses and results of operations, as well as the value of our assets and liabilities. Fluctuations may adversely affect the comparability of period-to-period results. In addition, we hold foreign currency balances, primarily NIS, which will create foreign exchange gains or losses, depending upon the relative values of the foreign currency, at the beginning and end of the reporting period, affecting our net income and earnings per share. We may use hedging techniques in the future (which we currently do not use), but there is no assurance that we will be able to eliminate the effects of currency fluctuations. Although the dollar depreciation in relation to the NIS during 2012 had not adversely affected our financial results, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock price. (See also Item 5, "Impact of Inflation and Currency Fluctuations".) We may not pay dividends in the near future and any return on investment may be limited to the value of our ordinary shares. Under the Israeli Companies Law, dividends may only be paid out of profits legally available for distribution and provided that there is no reasonable concern that such payment will prevent us from satisfying our existing and foreseeable obligations as they become due. In addition, a competent court may approve, as per a motion to be filed by a company in accordance with the Israeli Companies Law requirements, a payment which does not meet the profits test, provided that the court was convinced that there is no reasonable concern that such payment will prevent the company from satisfying its existing and foreseeable obligations as they become due. If we do not pay dividends, our ordinary shares may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our share price appreciates. Risks Pertaining to Ownership of Our Ordinary Shares The trading market for our ordinary shares has low liquidity, which could make it difficult for our shareholders to sell their shares at desired prices and amounts. Our ordinary shares currently are traded on the OTC Electronic Quotation Service. Currently, we do not meet the initial listing conditions of the Nasdaq Stock Market. The market for shares quoted on the OTC is typically less liquid than that for shares listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market. This could make it more difficult for our shareholders to sell their shares at desired prices and amounts. Our ordinary shares may become subject to the “penny stock” rules of the SEC which will make transactions in our ordinary shares cumbersome and may reduce the value of our shares. Trading in our ordinary shares may become subject to the "penny stock" regulations adopted by the SEC. These regulations generally define a "penny stock" to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions, such as if the issuer of the security has net tangible assets in excess of $2,000,000. The market price of our ordinary shares is currently less than $5.00 per share and our net tangible assets as of December 31, 2012 were approximately $3,743,000. While we believe that our ordinary shares are currently exempt from the definition of penny stock, there is no assurance that they will continue to be exempt from such definition. If our ordinary shares become subject to the “penny stock” rules of the SEC, it will make transactions in our ordinary shares cumbersome and may reduce the value of our shares. This is because for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, Rule 15g-9 generally requires: · that a broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks; and · the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. 19 In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: · obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and · make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: · sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and · that the broker or dealer received a signed, written statement from the investor prior to the transaction. Disclosure also has to be made by the broker or dealer about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the "penny stock" rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our ordinary shares and cause a decline in our market value if we were to become subject to the said "penny stock" rules. We have shareholders that are able to exercise substantial influence over us and all matters submitted to our shareholders. Sigma Wave Ltd., or Sigma, is the beneficial owner of approximately 46% of our outstanding shares. See Item 6E for more information. Such ownership interest gives Sigma the ability to influence and direct our activities, subject to approvals that may be required for related-party transactions pursuant to Israeli law. Sigma will have influence over the outcome of most matters submitted to our shareholders, including the election of directors and the adoption of a merger agreement, and such influence could make us a less attractive acquisition or investment target. Because the interests of Sigma may differ from the interests of our other shareholders, actions taken by Sigma with respect to us may not be favorable to our other shareholders. If persons engage in short sales of our ordinary shares, including sales of shares to be issued upon the exercise of our outstanding warrants, options and convertible bonds, the price of our ordinary shares may decline. Selling short is a technique used by a shareholder to take advantage of an anticipated decline in the price of a security. In addition, holders of options, warrants and convertible bonds will sometimes sell short knowing they can, in effect, cover the sale through the exercise of an option, warrant or convertible bond, thus locking in a profit. A significant number of short sales or a large volume of other sales within a relatively short period of time can create downward pressure on the market price of a security. Further sales of ordinary shares issued upon exercise of our outstanding warrants, options or convertible bonds could cause even greater declines in the price of our ordinary shares due to the number of additional shares available in the market upon such exercise or conversion, which could encourage short sales that could further undermine the value of our ordinary shares. You could, therefore, experience a decline in the value of your investment as a result of short sales of our ordinary shares. A change in tax laws of any country in which we operate could result in a higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. We conduct our operations in various countries throughout the world. Tax laws and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Consequently, we are subject to changing tax laws, treaties and regulations in and between countries in which we operate, including treaties between nations. Our income tax expense is based upon our interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. A change in these tax laws, treaties or regulations, or in the interpretation thereof, or in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, which is beyond our control could result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. 20 A loss of a major tax dispute or a successful tax challenge to our operating structure, intercompany pricing policies or the taxable presence of our subsidiaries in certain countries could result in a higher tax rate on our worldwide earnings, which could result in a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flows from operations. Our income tax returns are subject to review and examination. We do not recognize the benefit of income tax positions we believe are more likely than not to be disallowed upon challenge by a tax authority. If any tax authority successfully challenges our operational structure or the taxable presence of our subsidiaries in certain countries; or if the terms of certain income tax treaties are interpreted in a manner that is adverse to our structure; or if we lose a material tax dispute in any country, our effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings could increase substantially and our earnings and cash flows from operations could be materially adversely affected. While we believe that we are not currently a PFIC and do not anticipate becoming a PFIC, United States tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company," which could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States holders. Generally, if for any taxable year, 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the value of our assets, averaged quarterly, are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we will be characterized as a passive foreign investment company ("PFIC") for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A determination that we are a PFIC could cause our U.S. shareholders to suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our shares taxed at ordinary income rates, rather than capital gains rates, and being subject to an interest charge on such gain. Similar rules apply to certain "excess distributions" made with respect to our ordinary shares. A determination that we are a PFIC could also have an adverse effect on the price and marketability of our shares. If we are a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to U.S. holders owning our ordinary shares. Accordingly, you are urged to consult your tax advisors regarding the application of such rules. See "Item 10.E. Taxation - Passive Foreign Investment Company" below. Being a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain SEC requirements. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to U.S. public companies including: · the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K; · the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies in connection with shareholder meetings; · the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and · the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). Because of these exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the U.S. 