Item 1A. Risk Factors,” will be important in determining future results. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we do not know whether our expectations will prove correct. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including with respect to Polypore International, the following, among other things: • the highly competitive nature of the markets in which we sell our products; • the failure to continue to develop innovative products; • the failure to successfully manage the transition in hemodialysis from cellulosic to synthetic filtration membranes; • the loss of our customers; • the vertical integration by our customers of the production of our products into their own manufacturing process; • increases in prices for raw materials or the loss of key supplier contracts; • employee slowdowns, strikes or similar actions; • product liability claims exposure; • risks in connection with our operations outside the United States; • the incurrence of substantial costs to comply with, or as a result of violations of, or liabilities under environmental laws; • the failure to protect our intellectual property; • the failure to replace lost senior management; • the incurrence of additional debt, contingent liabilities and expenses in connection with future acquisitions; • the failure to effectively integrate newly acquired operations; and • the absence of expected returns from the amount of intangible assets we have recorded. Because our actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements, we cannot give any assurance that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will occur or, if any of them do, what impact they will have on Polypore International’s results of operations and financial condition. You are cautioned not to place 2 Table of Contents undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements or the factors set forth in the caption below entitled “Risk Factors” to reflect new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under federal securities laws. We have filed this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and will file or furnish other reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) under the Exchange Act, with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission” or “SEC”). You may inspect a copy of any of our filings without charge at the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain copies of our filings from such office at prescribed rates. You may also obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, including Polypore International, Inc., that file electronically with the SEC. Our reports are available on the SEC website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with the SEC. The reports are also available in print to any stockholder who requests them by contacting our corporate secretary at the address above for the Company’s principal executive offices. Our website address is http://www.polypore.net. 3 Table of Contents Item 1. Business General Polypore International, Inc. is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of highly specialized polymer-based membranes used in separation and filtration processes. Our products and technologies target specialized applications and markets that require the removal or separation of various materials from liquids, with such materials ranging in size from microscopic to those visible to the human eye. We manage our operations under two business segments: energy storage and separations media. The energy storage segment, which accounts for approximately two-thirds of our total sales, produces different types of membranes that function as separators in lead-acid batteries used in transportation and industrial applications and in lithium batteries used in electronics applications. The separations media segment, which accounts for approximately one-third of our total sales, produces membranes used in various healthcare and industrial applications, including hemodialysis, blood oxygenation, ultrapure water filtration, degasification and other specialty applications. We believe that we are a leading provider, in terms of market share, of membrane products for use in our primary separation and filtration markets. Our markets are highly specialized and constitute an attractive mix of stability and growth. We generally compete with only a few other companies. We enjoy longstanding relationships and collaborative partnerships with a diverse base of customers who are among the leaders in their respective markets. These relationships are strengthened by our ability to develop highly technical membrane products that meet the precise and evolving needs of our customers. Most of our products require years of cooperative development with customers, extensive testing and, in some applications, regulatory approval prior to the introduction of our customers’ products to the market. Although many of our products are critical functional components in our customers’ end products, they typically represent a relatively small percentage of the final delivered cost. In many of our markets, we are often selected as the customer’s exclusive supplier. Historically, our growth has been both organic and through acquisitions. We significantly diversified our portfolio of products by acquiring Celgard from the Hoechst Celanese Corporation in December 1999, which gave us access to the fast-growing electronics and specialty filtration markets, and Membrana GmbH, a German corporation, from Acordis AG in February 2002 to expand our presence in the healthcare and specialty filtration markets. Almost every process stream has a filtration application, and many end products require materials possessing specialized filtration and separation functions. The large and extremely fragmented filtration and separation market presents an opportunity for future consolidation. Our business strategy focuses on maintaining our existing strong collaborative relationships with our customers. Our research and development team works closely with our customers on product development, resulting in products customized to our customers’ manufacturing and end-use specifications. For example, as the power output requirement for rechargeable lithium batteries increases, we work closely with our customers to develop innovative separators, such as our proprietary trilayer separator, to meet the increased technical demands and specifications. In addition, we seek to expand our products into adjacent markets and pursue new, developing niche end-markets. For example, we intend to expand our existing pipeline of products targeting future technology applications, which currently includes membranes for fuel cells, hybrid electric vehicles and specialty filtration applications. In addition, we believe there are significant opportunities to expand the geographical distribution of our existing products. Our Thailand facility, opened in 2002, gives us a local presence to serve the fast-growing Asian automobile fleet. Finally, we intend to increase profitability through ongoing initiatives designed to improve efficiencies in the following areas: • productivity gains through improved and integrated business processes, • employee empowerment by encouraging quick decision-making at the lowest practical management levels, and • overhead reduction through continued cost focus and control. 4 Table of Contents Products, markets and customers Our business segments are energy storage and separations media. Within each of these segments, we develop and produce products that relate to certain industrial and specialty technology end-use markets. The following table describes our key products and end-use markets served: Segment Applications Major brands End-uses and markets Energy storage Lead-acid batteries DARAK® Daramic® Transportation and industrial batteries Rechargeable and disposable lithium batteries CELGARD® Electronics products such as laptop computers, mobile telephones, cameras and military equipment Separations media Hemodialysis CUPROPHAN® DIAPES® HEMOPHAN® SMC® PUREMA® Hemodialysis dialyzers which replicate function of healthy kidneys Blood oxygenation CELGARD® HEX PET® OXYPHAN® OXYPLUS® Heart-lung machine oxygenation unit for open-heart surgical procedures Plasmapheresis FRACTIO PES® MICRO PES® Capillary PLASMAPHAN® Blood cell and plasma separation equipment Industrial and specialty applications Accurel® PP Microelectronics manufacturing and chemical filtration Accurel Systems® Polymer additives carrier Artisyn® Printing media/graphic arts Liqui-Cel® Water degasification, semiconductor and microelectronics manufacturing, beverage processing and pharmaceutical production MicroPES® Water/chemical filtration for drinking water treatment and food and beverage processing SuperPhobic® Solvent/ink de-bubbling for ink jet printers and semiconductor manufacturing Liqui-Flux® Food, beverage and water filtration UltraPES® Prefiltration for reverse osmosis, water filtration Energy storage Our separators in the energy storage segment are used in lead-acid and lithium batteries to separate the positive and negative electrodes and control the flow of ions between them. These separators require specialized technical engineering and must be manufactured to extremely demanding requirements including thickness, porosity, mechanical strength, chemical and electrical resistance. During fiscal 2005, pro forma 2004 and fiscal 2003, our energy storage businesses accounted for 71.5%, 67.9% and 66.9% of our net sales, respectively. 5 Table of Contents Transportation and industrial applications. We develop, manufacture and market a complete line of polyethylene and other resin separators for use in lead-acid batteries. Approximately 80% of the lead-acid battery separators we sell are used in starting, lighting and ignition (“SLI”) batteries for automobiles and other motor vehicles and approximately 20% are used in batteries for industrial applications such as forklifts, marine applications and stationary applications such as backup power for telecom infrastructure and uninterruptible power supply systems. Separators used in lead-acid batteries are among the most highly engineered and performance critical components of the battery, yet only represent a small portion of the battery’s total cost. Our separators are designed to enhance battery performance and stability. We use polyethylene, polypropylene, and/or polyester mats to achieve product characteristics that satisfy highly engineered customer specifications. We have enhanced battery performance by constantly improving the balance between pore size and narrow pore distribution. Membrane pores must be large enough to allow ions to pass through, but small enough to prevent contamination from conductive particles, which cause short circuits. Our top five separator customers are Exide Technologies, Johnson Controls, Inc., East Penn Manufacturing Co., Inc., Fiamm Group and EnerSys, Inc. We believe we have the number one aggregate market share position in terms of providing battery separators to the global transportation and industrial battery market. Electronics applications. We also develop, manufacture and market a complete line of polypropylene and polyethylene monolayer and proprietary multilayer separators used for rechargeable (Li2) and disposable (Li1) lithium batteries. Approximately 85% of the lithium battery separators we sell are used in rechargeable lithium batteries and 15% are used in disposable lithium batteries. Rechargeable lithium batteries are used in consumer electronic products such as laptop computers, mobile telephones, cameras and PDAs. Disposable lithium batteries are primarily used in cameras, portable stereos and military applications. Our top lithium battery separator customers include Matsushita Battery Industrial Company Limited, BYD Company Limited, Tianjin Lishen Battery Joint-Stock Co., Ltd., E-One Moli Energy, Ltd, and Saft SA. We believe we are among the top three providers of battery separators to the lithium battery market and have been since its development in the early 1990’s. We believe these three providers supply more than 90% of the battery separator requirements for the lithium battery market. Market share fluctuates based on many factors including capacity, relative customer strength, product performance and economic conditions. Separations media In our separations media segment, we manufacture and market filtration membranes for use in hemodialysis, oxygenation and plasmapheresis machines in the healthcare industry as well as other industrial and specialty applications in the semiconductor, microelectronics, food and beverage and water purification industries. During fiscal 2005, pro forma 2004 and fiscal 2003, our separations media business accounted for 28.5%, 32.1% and 33.1% of our net sales, respectively. Hemodialysis. We are a leading independent developer, manufacturer and marketer of hemodialysis membranes, which are a critical component of dialyzers, a consumable item for kidney dialysis. Dialysis is the artificial process that performs the function of a healthy kidney for patients with end-stage renal disease (“ESRD”). In a healthy person, the kidney carries out certain excretory and endocrine functions, including filtering toxins from the blood and controlling blood pressure. For an ESRD patient on dialysis, the membranes in the dialyzer perform these filtering functions. The membranes consist of thousands of fibers that resemble hollow straws slightly larger than a human hair. These fibers have micropores in their walls at a density of millions of holes per square inch. The size and distribution of these micropores separate harmful toxins from the healthy blood passing through the dialyzer. Because dialyzers are designed to use specific membrane technology and require U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) approval, a dialyzer manufacturer’s relationship with its membrane supplier is strategically important, and the costs of changing suppliers are substantial. Switching to a membrane manufactured by a different supplier can involve two or three years of development costs. Because of the critical mission and integral role membranes play and the difficulty and expense involved in their substitution, we believe that major membrane manufacturers will play an important role in the future structure of the dialyzer industry. Key players in the dialysis industry using the Company’s membranes in their dialyzer include Gambro, Nipro, NxStage, Haidylena and Bellco. Hemodialysis filtration membranes 6 Table of Contents are fabricated from two classes of materials: cellulosic and synthetic. Historically, most filtration membranes for dialyzers have been manufactured with cellulosic materials. In the last several years, membranes manufactured from synthetic materials have captured most of the market growth, while unit shipments of cellulosic materials declined. Since 2001, we have invested in developing and improving our own synthetic products and building new capacity to support the expected growth in this segment. We believe that our next generation synthetic product, PUREMA®, which was commercially introduced by a major customer in late 2005, offers best-in-class technical performance relative to other membranes in the marketplace. Blood oxygenation. We believe we are the world’s leading developer, manufacturer and marketer of membranes for use in blood oxygenators, with over 80% of the estimated global market share. A blood oxygenator is a device used to remove carbon dioxide from the blood while oxygen is diffused through a membrane and into the blood. Oxygenators are primarily sold to hospitals for use in heart-lung bypass surgical procedures. Because blood oxygenators are designed to utilize a specific membrane technology and require regulatory approval, an oxygenator manufacturer’s relationship with its membrane supplier is vital and switching costs can be substantial. We sell our membranes to all major blood oxygenator producers, including Dideco/ Sorin/ Cobe Group, Medtronic and Jostra. Plasmapheresis. We are a leading developer, manufacturer and marketer of extracorporeal therapeutic plasmapheresis membranes. Plasmapheresis is the extracorporeal separation of blood cells and plasma from plasma proteins used in treating different diseases. Major manufacturers of plasmapheresis equipment include Dideco, Fresenius Medical Care and Gambro. Industrial and specialty applications. We develop, manufacture and market a number of industrial and specialty filtration and filtration-related products. Liquid filtration is a diverse and high growth market, and almost every process stream has a filtration application. We supply a broad portfolio of membranes based on flat sheet, tubular and capillary technology. Our industrial and specialty products are focused on the gas/liquid and solid/liquid separations sectors in a wide variety of processing end-markets including semiconductor and microelectronics manufacturing, food and beverage processing and water purification. In many of those end-markets, there is growing demand for ever-increasing purity levels in the manufacturing process. We collaborate with customers to develop new products using various media to address demanding customer liquid filtration and purification specifications. In addition, we develop products that can be used in a multitude of applications. The control of dissolved gases in liquids is a key part of the manufacturing process in many industries. The same fibers used in our oxygenation products (CELGARD® and OXYPLUS®) are used in these degasification applications. The following are descriptions of certain of our industrial and specialty products: • MicroPES® is a polyethersulfone flat sheet or hollow fiber microfiltration membrane with broad chemical and low protein binding characteristics, properties which are attractive to end-users who desire minimal absorption of their product. This membrane is primarily used in tap water filtration and miscellaneous food and beverage filtration applications. • Accurel® PP is a polypropylene membrane which can be used in a wide range of pH conditions. This membrane is an economical choice for many applications compared to certain higher priced products, and is primarily used for chemical filtration in semiconductor processing applications. • UltraPES® is a hollow fiber, ultrafiltration polyethersulfone membrane used for reverse osmosis systems pretreatment, the filtration of drinking water and municipal city wastewater and the separation of oil content from industrial process water streams. • Liqui-Cel® membrane contactors are modular products incorporating hydrophobic hollow fiber membranes and are used in a wide variety of industries including semiconductor and microelectronics manufacturing, beverages and pharmaceuticals. This purification technology is also used for flat panel display manufacturing and in power plants. • SuperPhobic® membrane contactors are a special type of membrane contactor which can treat liquids which otherwise penetrate the membrane pores of conventional Liqui-Cel® membrane contactors. Typical applications involve the elimination of microbubbles in liquids which, upon occurrence, negatively impact customer production processes, quality and yield. Some applications include the 7 Table of Contents degassing of inks, paper coating solutions, photoemulsion and alcohol debubbling. This membrane is primarily used for ink degassing for ink jet delivery systems and semiconductor photoresist solutions. We have also developed several functional membranes for controlling moisture in fuel cell systems. In addition, we have filed several patent applications for membranes used in polymer electrolyte membrane type fuel cells, including novel concepts for proton exchange film. New product development We have focused our research and development efforts on increasing production capacity and improving production processes, developing products for new markets based on existing technologies and developing new process technologies to enhance existing businesses and allow entry into new businesses. We spent approximately $12.1 million (3% of our net sales), $13.6 million (3% of our net sales) and $13.4 million (3% of our net sales) in fiscal 2005, pro forma 2004 and fiscal 2003, respectively, on research and development. Our battery separator product research is performed at technical centers at our plants in Owensboro, Kentucky; Norderstedt, Germany; and Charlotte, North Carolina. We are in the process of relocating our battery separator research currently performed at our Norderstedt, Germany facility to our facilities in Prachinburi, Thailand and Selestat, France. Our healthcare technical center was located in Obernberg, Germany before all of its activities were relocated to Wuppertal, Germany in 2005. All of the products that we develop are subject to multiple levels of extensive and rigorous testing. The qualification of separators for use in industrial and automotive applications, for instance, may require one or more years of testing by our staff and battery manufacturers. End-market overview The global market for separation and filtration membranes is large and extremely fragmented, with most suppliers producing products for separate and distinct niches. The membranes we manufacture provide these specialized functions for our customers, who use our membranes as a critical component within their own products. Industry analysts estimate that the annual global market for lead-acid batteries is approximately $30 billion, or 770 million units, of which approximately $25 billion, or 600 million units, are lead-acid batteries for SLI applications for motor vehicles. Although separators are a critical component within lead-acid batteries, they constitute a small portion of the overall cost. Accordingly, the size of the separator market is much smaller than the overall lead-acid battery market. We estimate that automobile lead-acid batteries are approximately 80% of our lead-acid battery separator revenue. The SLI lead-acid battery market is characterized by stable demand because of the relatively short replacement cycle for batteries in automobiles. For example, industry analysts estimate that the average battery is replaced every three to four years. As a result of this short replacement cycle and due to the large number of motor vehicles worldwide, we estimate that approximately 80% of automotive and other SLI lead-acid batteries are for the replacement market. The primary demand driver of the replacement market is the size of the worldwide fleet of motor vehicles, which, according to Ward’s Motor Vehicles Facts and Figures, has been growing approximately 3% per year. Secondary drivers of the replacement market include weather patterns (hot summers and cold winters tend to shorten battery life), the longer average life of vehicles and the larger average size of engines. We believe that the market for our major product, polyethylene separators, has historically grown at a faster pace than the underlying lead-acid battery market because polyethylene separators have been taking market share from alternative materials such as PVC, cellulose and rubber. Major lead-acid battery manufacturers include Exide Technologies, Johnson Controls Inc., East Penn Manufacturing Co., Inc. and Fiamm Group. According to industry analysts, the market for rechargeable lithium batteries used in electronic devices is over $3 billion, and the market for disposable lithium batteries is approximately $700 million. As with lead-acid batteries, the size of the market for separators is considerably smaller than the overall market for lithium batteries because separators constitute only a small portion of overall cost. Approximately 85% of our unit volume of lithium battery separators is comprised of separators for rechargeable lithium batteries (Li2), while approximately 15% is comprised of separators for disposable lithium batteries (Li1). According to industry analysts, sales in the rechargeable lithium battery market are expected to grow at a 8 Table of Contents compound annual growth rate of approximately 16% through 2011. Growth in the rechargeable lithium battery business has historically been driven by growth in the underlying markets for portable electronic products (primarily mobile telephones and laptop computers) and the displacement of nickel-based battery technologies. The continuing market growth is being driven by the increasing mobility of consumers demanding portable electronic devices, the increasing number of consumers purchasing back-up batteries, and the increasing functionality and complexity of these devices requiring more battery power and more batteries per electronic device. Lithium-based batteries exhibit superior energy density and weight characteristics relative to other battery technologies such as nickel-based materials and have become the standard in the majority of consumer end-markets. For example, we believe that over 90% of new mobile telephones and laptop computers contain rechargeable lithium batteries. Major lithium battery manufacturers include Sanyo Electric Company Limited, Matsushita Battery Industrial Company Limited (Panasonic brand), Sony Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., Duracell International Incorporated, BYD Company Limited, Tianjin Lishen Battery Joint-Stock Co., Ltd., LG Electronics, Inc. and Saft SA. Demand for dialyzers is driven by the aging population in developed countries, increased ESRD incidence, longer life-expectancy of treated ESRD patients, improving access to treatment in developing countries and the trend in the United States toward single-use rather than multiple-use dialyzers. According to the European Renal Association European Dialysis and Transplant Association, the number of worldwide ESRD patients has been growing 7% per year over the last twenty years to reach approximately 1.5 million patients treated by hemodialysis globally in 2005. ESRD patients generally receive three kidney dialysis treatments per week, resulting in stable and recurring demand for dialyzers and our membranes. Sales and marketing We sell our products and services to customers in both the domestic and international marketplace. We sell primarily to manufacturers and converters that incorporate our products into their finished goods. We employ a direct worldwide sales force and utilize approximately 50 experienced people who manage major customer relationships. Many of our sales representatives are engineers or similarly trained technical personnel who have advanced knowledge of our products and the applications for which they are used. Our sales representatives are active in new product development efforts and are strategically located in the major geographic regions in which our products are sold. In certain geographic areas, we use distributors or other agents. We typically seek to enter into long-term supply contracts with our major customers. These contracts typically describe the volume and selling price and can last up to 10 years. In addition, these contracts reflect our close collaborative relationship with our customers, which is driven by our customers’ need to develop new separators and membranes directly with us. In fiscal 2005, net sales to our top five customers represented approximately 32% of our total net sales. Exide Technologies represented approximately 17% of our sales in fiscal 2005. Manufacturing and operations General We have manufacturing facilities in the major geographic markets of North America, Europe and Asia. We manufacture our lead-acid separators at our facilities in Owensboro, Kentucky; Corydon, Indiana; Selestat, France; Norderstedt, Germany; Potenza, Italy; and Prachinburi, Thailand. During 2005, we closed our Feistritz, Austria facility, downsized our Norderstedt, Germany facility and relocated certain assets from these two plants to our facilities in Prachinburi, Thailand. We manufacture our lithium battery separators at our facility in Charlotte, North Carolina and have a finishing operation at our facility in Shanghai, China. We manufacture our healthcare membranes and industrial and specialty separation products at facilities in Wuppertal, Germany and Charlotte, North Carolina. In fiscal 2005, pro forma 2004 and fiscal 2003, we generated revenues from customers outside the United States of approximately 74%, 77% and 72%, respectively. We typically sell our products in the currency of the country in which the products are manufactured rather than the local currency of our customers. 9 Table of Contents Our manufacturing facilities in North America accounted for 38% of total sales for fiscal 2005, with facilities in Europe accounting for 58% and facilities in Asia accounting for 4%. Our foreign operations are, and any future foreign operations will be, subject to certain risks that could materially affect our sales, profits, cash flows and financial position. These risks include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation, economic or political instability, shipping delays, changes in applicable laws and regulatory policies and various trade restrictions, all of which could have a significant impact on our ability to deliver products on a competitive and timely basis. The future imposition of, or significant increases in the level of, customs duties, import quotas or other trade restrictions could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We recently completed a significant multi-year expansion program through construction of a new plant in Prachinburi, Thailand, the opening of a new facility in Shanghai, China and expansions of our Charlotte, North Carolina and Wuppertal, Germany plants. These expansions increased our production capacity for our lead-acid battery separators, lithium battery separators and hemodialysis membranes, respectively. Our facilities have plant-wide, real-time control and monitoring systems to ensure all products meet customer specifications. Manufacturing processes All of our manufacturing processes involve an extrusion process. To produce Liqui-Cel® membrane contactors, hollow fibers are glued into a cartridge form by extruding either a polyolefin resin or an epoxy adhesive before final assembly into a finished module. To produce our flat sheet and hollow fiber membranes, we use one of three basic membrane processes that begin with an extrusion step. These include phase separation (thermally-induced, solvent-induced, or reaction-induced), “dry stretch” (“Celgard” process), and composite extrusion/extraction (“Daramic” process) processes. Each process, and its resulting product properties, is well suited to the various membrane requirements for our target markets. Battery separators. We manufacture Daramic®, our principal lead-acid battery separator used in industrial and automotive applications, using a composite extrusion/extraction process. The process stages are fully automated, although the process requires some handling as material is transferred from stage to stage. Initially, an ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene is mixed with porous silica and oil, which are heated and extruded into a film. The film is passed through an extraction bath to remove the excess oil from the silica pores to create the proper microporosity and film stiffness prior to drying. We manufacture our DARAK® industrial separator using a patented manufacturing process that begins by saturating a polyester fleece with a modified phenolic resin, which is then cross-linked, washed, dried, cured and cut into single pieces in a continuous one-step process. The reaction step produces the final microporous structure. Similar to our Daramic® product, we begin the manufacture of lithium battery separators with an extrusion step. However, no solvents or other additives are used in conjunction with the polymer at extrusion (hence the “dry” stretch process description). The same “Celgard” process is used for producing CELGARD® flat sheet monolayer and proprietary trilayer separators. Membrane microporosity is created during a thermal stretching process. Some special coated and non-woven laminate products are also manufactured for specialty battery and other applications. Hemodialysis, blood oxygenation, and plasmapheresis membranes. Hollow fiber membranes produced for hemodialysis, blood oxygenation and plasmapheresis are mainly produced using phase separation processes. For these phase separation processes, the polymer spinning solution is prepared by dissolving the polymer in a solvent prior to extrusion. A porous membrane is formed by separating the solvent and polymer phases using temperature (thermally-induced), or a “non-solvent” (solvent-induced), then the solvent phase is extracted and the porous polymer membrane is dried. For the blood oxygenation market, hollow fiber and flat sheet membranes are also produced using our “dry stretch” (“Celgard”) process. We rely on the molecular behavior of semi-crystalline polymers (polyolefins) to create the microporous structure. By controlling the extrusion process under which the film or fiber is formed, we create a crystalline structure that allows the formation of microvoids in a subsequent stretching step. Although we use different equipment for the flat sheet and fiber products, the operating conditions of temperature, stress, and line 10 Table of Contents speed are similar for both. After extrusion, our products can be stored or immediately processed on annealing and stretching lines that create the final porous form. Competition Our markets are highly competitive. Our primary competitors in the market for separators used in industrial and automotive batteries are Entek International LLC (“Entek”) in North America and Europe and Nippon Muki Co., Ltd. in Japan. In addition, we have a number of smaller competitors in South Korea, Indonesia, China and North America. In the market for separators used in lithium batteries, we compete with Asahi Kasei Corporation, Tonen Corporation (a subsidiary of ExxonMobil) and Ube Industries Limited. In addition, we have a number of smaller competitors elsewhere in Asia. For filtration membranes used in healthcare applications, we compete primarily with Fresenius Medical Care, Gambro, Asahi Medical Corporation and Toyobo Co. Ltd.. Product innovation and performance, quality, service, utility and cost are the primary competitive factors, with technical support being highly valued by the largest customers. We believe that we are well positioned in our end-markets for the following reasons: • We have developed significant proprietary manufacturing know-how by producing specialized products over many years that, in certain cases, we believe cannot be reproduced in the market and, in other cases, would be prohibitively expensive for a competitor to replicate. • Most of our products require years of development and extensive testing and, in the case of our healthcare products, regulatory approval prior to the marketing of our customers’ products. • We have continually improved manufacturing efficiency and expanded capacity through equipment modifications, process improvement and capital expenditures. • We believe we are one of the top three companies in global market share in most of our product lines as a result of the superior performance characteristics of our products, our well-known brands within the industries we serve and our ability to develop and manufacture new generations of value-added products at competitive costs. • Our research and development team works closely with our customers, and we often partner with our customers on product development and end-use testing. As a result, many of our products have been customized to our customers’ manufacturing and end-use specifications. In addition, we are often selected as a customer’s exclusive supplier for our microporous membrane products. • We produce a variety of separation and filtration products addressing niche end-markets, some of which provide us with a stable and recurring revenue base, while other end-markets provide us with strong growth potential. • We are committed to innovation. We have introduced many of the major innovations in the market for separators for use in batteries, including the first polyethylene separator for lead-acid batteries and the first multilayer separator for lithium batteries. In addition, we have introduced major innovations within the healthcare market including the first membrane-based technology used for hemodialysis. • We manufacture, market and service our products in 10 facilities throughout North America, Europe and Asia. By strategically positioning our manufacturing, sales and marketing and technical service personnel near our customers, we can respond to their needs more effectively and provide a higher level of service. • We believe we have state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities and capabilities. Raw materials We employ a global purchasing strategy to achieve pricing leverage on our purchases of major raw materials. The major polyethylene and polypropylene resins we use are very specialized petroleum-based products that are less affected by commodity pricing cycles than other petroleum-based products. In the event of future price increases for these major raw materials, we believe that we will be able to pass these increases to our customers. Some current supply contracts with our major customers allow us to pass these costs to our customers. The primary raw materials we use to manufacture most of our products are 11 Table of Contents polyethylene and polypropylene resins, silica, paper, and oil. Our major supplier of polyethylene resins is Ticona LLC and our major suppliers of polypropylene resins are Exxon Chemical Company (a subsidiary of ExxonMobil) and Fina (a subsidiary of Total). Our major suppliers of silica are PPG Industries, Inc., Degussa A.G. and Acordis A.G., while our major supplier of oil is Shell Chemical LP (a subsidiary of Royal Dutch/ Shell). We believe that the loss of any one or more of our suppliers would not have a long-term material adverse effect on us because other manufacturers with whom we conduct business or have conducted business in the past would be able to fulfill our requirements. However, the loss of one of our key suppliers could, in the short term, adversely affect our business until we secure alternative supply arrangements. In addition, we cannot assure you that any new supply arrangements we enter will have terms as favorable as those contained in current supply arrangements. We have never experienced any significant disruptions in supply as a result of shortages in raw materials. Seasonality Operations at our European production facilities are traditionally subject to shutdowns during the month of August each year for employee vacations. As a result, net income during the third quarter of fiscal 2005 was, and during the third quarter of any fiscal year in the future may be, lower than net income in other quarters during the same fiscal year. In view of the seasonal fluctuations, we believe that comparisons of our operating results for the third quarter of any fiscal year with those of the other quarters during the same fiscal year may be of limited relevance in predicting our future financial performance. Employees At December 31, 2005, the Company had approximately 1,800 employees worldwide. Hourly employees at seven of our 10 facilities are unionized and account for approximately 62% of our total employees. These facilities were unionized prior to our ownership; no facility has been unionized under our ownership. We have historically had good relationships with our unions, with no occurrences of any work stoppages. The following summarizes those employees represented by unions as of December 31, 2005: Number of unionized Date of contract Location employees % of Total renegotiation Corydon 85 78 January 2007 Obernberg 17 74 Annual Owensboro 169 71 April 2008 Potenza 138 99 Annual Sélestat 140 80 Annual Wuppertal 517 90 Annual Norderstedt 47 58 Annual Total 1,113 Environmental matters We are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations which govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges and the handling, storage disposal and release of wastes and hazardous substances. It is our policy to comply with applicable environmental requirements at all of our facilities. We are also subject to laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), that may impose liability retroactively and without fault for releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at on-site or off-site locations. From time to time, we have identified environmental compliance issues at our facilities. For more information, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” below. We are not aware of any material off-site releases for which we may be liable under CERCLA or any other environmental or health and safety law. We already have conducted some cleanup of the on-site 12 Table of Contents releases at some facilities and we will be conducting additional cleanups of on-site contamination at other facilities under regulatory supervision or voluntarily. Costs for such work and related measures (such as eliminating sources of contamination) could be substantial, particularly at our Wuppertal, Germany and Potenza, Italy facilities. We have established reserves for environmental liabilities of approximately $25.6 million as of December 31, 2005. However, we do not anticipate that the remediation activities will disrupt operations at our facilities or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we have asserted claims under an indemnity from Acordis A.G. and Akzo Nobel (“Akzo”), the prior owners of Membrana GmbH, that is expected to provide indemnification of a substantial percentage of anticipated environmental costs at Wuppertal. The amount receivable under the indemnification agreement at December 31, 2005 was $17.4 million. To date we have not had any significant disagreement with Akzo over its environmental indemnity obligations to us. Intellectual property rights We consider our patents, patent licenses and trademarks, in the aggregate, to be important to our business and seek to protect this proprietary know-how in part through United States and foreign patent and trademark registrations. Certain of our patents are also important individually. In addition, we maintain certain trade secrets for which, in order to maintain the confidentiality of such trade secrets, we have not sought patent protection. Item 1.A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. As such, prospective investors and shareholders should carefully consider and evaluate all of the risk factors described below. These risk factors may change from time to time and may be amended, supplemented, or superseded by updates to the risk factors contained in periodic reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K that we file with the SEC in the future. These risks include the following: Risks Related to Our Company Our substantial indebtedness could harm our ability to react to changes to our business or market developments and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. As a result of the transactions related to the purchase of Polypore, Inc. by PP Acquisition Corporation, our indirect, wholly owned subsidiary (the “Transactions”), we have incurred a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2005, our consolidated indebtedness, including the capital lease obligation, was approximately $1,002.8 million, excluding unused commitments of $90.0 million under our revolving loan facility, and our other liabilities were approximately $268.4 million. For fiscal 2005, our interest expense was $82.0 million. Our substantial level of current indebtedness, as well as any additional indebtedness we may draw under the unused portions of our senior secured credit facilities, increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial debt could increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions by limiting our flexibility to plan for, or to react to, changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate. This limitation could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt and more cash to insulate their operations from market downturns and to finance new business opportunities. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. At December 31, 2005, we have variable rate debt of approximately $367.0 million and we are not a party to any interest rate hedging agreements As a result, a modest interest rate increase could result in a substantial increase in interest expense. Our earnings may not be sufficient to allow us to meet any such increases in interest rate expense and to pay principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have sufficient earnings, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell more securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. 13 Table of Contents To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund our operations will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. However, our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations for a variety of reasons, including those mentioned elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section. Without sufficient cash flow, future borrowings may not be available to us under Polypore’s senior secured credit facilities in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity or capital needs. If we cannot generate sufficient cash to service our debt, we will have to take such actions as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. Any of these actions may not be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, the indentures (the “Indentures”) for Polypore’s 8.75% senior subordinated notes and our 10.5% senior discount notes (collectively, the “Notes”) and the credit agreement for our senior secured credit facilities may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. The terms of Polypore’s senior secured credit facilities and the Indentures may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to market changes or to take certain actions. Polypore’s senior secured credit facilities and the Indentures contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. For example, Polypore’s senior secured credit facilities include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness or guarantees; engage in mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations; or amend or otherwise alter terms of our indebtedness, including our Notes, and other material agreements. Polypore’s senior secured credit facilities also include financial covenants, including requirements that we maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. The Indentures also contain numerous operating and financial covenants including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to: incur or guarantee additional debt; issue preferred stock of restricted subsidiaries; pay dividends or make other equity distributions; or purchase or redeem capital stock. These financial covenants also include a requirement that we not exceed certain maximum aggregate capital expenditures. A breach of any of these covenants or the inability to comply with financial covenants could result in a default under Polypore’s senior secured credit facilities or the Notes. If any such default occurs, the lenders and the holders of the Notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings and to proceed against all collateral granted to them to secure the debt. If collateral (such as available cash) is repossessed by the lenders or holders of the Notes, we will be unable to access the capital and other resources necessary to operate our business and the Company could incur immediate and significant losses. Polypore International is the sole obligor of the 10.5% senior discount notes and our subsidiaries do not guarantee the obligations under, and do not have any obligation with respect to, such indebtedness. Polypore International is a holding company and does not have any material business assets or operations. All of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries and, therefore, we are and will continue to be dependent on the cash flow of our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Furthermore, we are the sole obligor of the 10.5% senior discount notes, and our subsidiaries do not guarantee our obligations under, and do not have any obligation with respect to, such indebtedness. Also, the terms of the senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the 8.75% senior subordinated notes significantly restrict our subsidiaries from paying dividends and otherwise transferring assets to us. In addition, the 10.5% senior discount notes are effectively subordinated to all existing and future indebtedness and liabilities of our subsidiaries (including trade credit, the 8.75% senior subordinated notes and any indebtedness incurred under the secured credit facilities). The agreements governing the current and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries and our dependence on their cash flow may impede us from funding scheduled interest and 14 Table of Contents principal payments on the 10.5% senior discount notes when due, which could in turn impair our financial condition. Because a majority of our employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements, any employee slowdowns, strikes or failure to renew our collective bargaining agreements could disrupt our business. Approximately 62% of our employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements. A majority of those employees are located in Italy, France or Germany and are represented under industry-wide agreements that are subject to national and local government regulations. Many of these collective bargaining agreements must be renewed annually. Labor unions also represent our employees in Owensboro, Kentucky and Corydon, Indiana. The collective bargaining agreement covering workers at the Corydon facility expires in January 2007 and the agreement covering the workers at the Owensboro facility expires in April 2008. We may not be able to maintain constructive relationships with these labor unions. We may not be able to successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms in the future. The loss of a substantial number of these employees or a prolonged labor dispute could disrupt our business. Any such disruption could in turn reduce our revenue from sales, increase our costs to bring products to market and result in significant losses. We generate most of our revenue from manufacturing products that are used in a wide variety of industries and the potential for product liability exposure for our products could be significant. We manufacture a wide variety of products that are used in healthcare and consumer applications. Several of these products are used in medical devices that some consumers require in order to sustain their lives. As a result, we may face exposure to product liability claims in the event that the failure of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or death. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to make warranty payments or to participate in a recall involving those products. Consequently, end-users of our products may look to us for contribution when faced with product recalls, product liability or warranty claims. The future costs associated with defending product liability claims or providing product warranties could be material and we may experience material losses in the future as a result. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage or a requirement to participate in any product recall could substantially reduce our available cash from operations. Reduced cash could in turn reduce our profits or impair our financial condition. Our operations outside the United States pose risks to our business that are not present with our domestic business. Our manufacturing facilities in North America accounted for 38% of total sales for fiscal 2005, with facilities in Europe accounting for 58% and facilities in Asia accounting for 4%. Typically, we sell our products in the currency of the country where the manufacturing facility that produced the products is located. In addition, as part of our growth and acquisition strategy, we may expand our operations in these or other foreign countries. Our foreign operations are, and any future foreign operations will be, subject to certain risks that are unique to doing business in foreign countries. These risks include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation, economic or political instability, shipping delays, changes in applicable laws and regulatory policies and various trade restrictions. All of these risks could have a negative impact on our ability to deliver products to customers on a competitive and timely basis. This could reduce or impair our sales, profits, cash flows and financial position. The future imposition of, or significant increases in the level of, customs duties, import quotas or other trade restrictions could also increase our costs and reduce our profits. We could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental laws and violations of such laws may increase our costs or require us to change certain business practices. Because we manufacture a wide variety of healthcare and other consumer-related products, we use and generate a variety of chemicals and other hazardous by-products in our manufacturing operations. As a result, we are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and 15 Table of Contents regulations. These environmental laws govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges and the handling, storage and release of wastes and hazardous substances. Such laws and regulations can be complex and change often. We regularly incur costs to comply with environmental requirements, and such costs could increase significantly with changes in legal requirements or their interpretation or enforcement. Some of our manufacturing facilities have been the subject of actions to enforce environmental requirements. We could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and third-party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of environmental laws. Failure to comply with environmental requirements could also result in enforcement actions that materially limit or otherwise affect the operations of the facilities involved. Under certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of a environmentally contaminated site may be held liable for the entire cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials at such property. This liability could result whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials. Contaminants have been detected at some of our present facilities, principally in connection with historical operations. Investigations and/or clean-ups of these contaminants have been undertaken by us or by former owners of the sites. We are unaware of material offsite contamination at any of the sites. The costs of investigating and remediating environmental conditions at some of our facilities may be substantial. Although we believe we are entitled to contractual indemnification for a portion of these costs, if we do not receive expected indemnification payments, or if our remediation costs are higher than expected, our exposure to these costs would increase. This exposure could reduce our cash available for operations, consume valuable management time, and reduce our profits or impair our financial condition. We anticipate additional investigations and cleanups of onsite contamination under regulatory supervision or voluntarily at some of our sites. In addition, the imposition of more stringent cleanup requirements, the discovery of additional contaminants or the discovery of material offsite contamination at or from one or more of our facilities could result in significant additional costs to us. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, we could lose a significant competitive advantage. Our success with our products depends, in part, on our ability to protect our unique technologies and products against competitive pressure and to defend our intellectual property rights. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market products similar to ours. We may not receive patents for any of our patent applications and our existing or future patents that we receive or license may not provide competitive advantages for our products. Our competitors may challenge, invalidate or avoid the application of any existing or future patents, trademarks, or other intellectual property rights that we receive or license. In addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. The loss of protection for our intellectual property could reduce the market value of our products, reduce product sales, and lower our profits or impair our financial condition. Due to the unique products that we produce and the particular industry in which we operate, the loss of our senior management could disrupt our business. Our senior management is important to the success of our business. There is significant competition for executive personnel with unique experience in the separation and filtration membrane industry. As a result of this unique need and the competition for a limited pool of industry-based executive experience, we may not be able to retain our existing senior management. In addition, we many not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract additional senior management personnel. All of our executive officers are free to pursue other business opportunities (other than our chief executive officer and vice chairman, who are bound by non-compete provisions of their employment agreements), including those that may compete with us. The loss of any member of our senior management without retaining a suitable replacement (either from inside or outside our existing management team) could disrupt our business. 16 Table of Contents We may pursue future acquisitions. If we incur contingent liabilities and expenses or additional debt in connection with future acquisitions or if we cannot effectively integrate newly acquired operations, our business could be disrupted. A significant portion of our historical growth has occurred through acquisitions and we may enter into acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. Future acquisitions would likely result in the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities. Such acquisitions could also increase our interest and amortization expenses as well as periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Acquisitions could also result in significant charges relating to integration costs. We may not be able to integrate successfully any business we acquire into our existing business. Any acquired businesses may not be profitable or as profitable as we had expected. The successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. The successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business. This could decrease the time that they have to service and attract customers and develop new products and services. In addition, because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays. Such expenses and delays could include difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. Our inability to complete the integration of new businesses in a timely and orderly manner could increase costs, lower profit and ultimately disrupt our business. We have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. As a result of acquisitions, our net identifiable intangible assets at December 31, 2005 were approximately 16.3% of our total assets. Such assets include trademarks and trade names, license agreements and technology acquired in acquisitions. Goodwill, which relates to the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was approximately 41.6% of our total assets at December 31, 2005. Both goodwill and identifiable intangible assets increased substantially as a result of the Transactions. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition and, under Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 142, are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of the acquired business, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations. These changes include changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business and a variety of other circumstances. The amount of any impairment must be written off. We may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of intangible assets would reduce our profits for the fiscal period in which the write-off occurs. Warburg Pincus controls us. Affiliates and designees of Warburg Pincus Private Equity VIII, L.P. and Warburg Pincus International Partners, L.P. (collectively, “Warburg Pincus”) control Polypore International. Warburg Pincus is able to cause the election of all of the members of our board of directors, cause the appointment of new management and cause the approval of any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including amendment of our certificate of incorporation and mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. The directors elected by Warburg Pincus are able to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue additional capital stock, implement stock repurchase programs and declare dividends. In addition, Warburg Pincus may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to other equity holders or debt holders. Furthermore, Warburg Pincus may in the future own businesses that directly compete with ours. For information concerning the composition of our management team, see “Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.” 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Because the specialized markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive, we may have difficulty growing our business year after year. The markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive. Many of these markets require highly specialized products that are time and cost intensive to design and develop. In addition, innovative products, quality, service, utility, cost and technical support are the primary competitive factors in the separation and filtration membrane industry. While we only compete against a small number of competitors in each of our markets, some of these competitors are much larger companies that have greater financial, technological, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. Many of these competitors are also better established as suppliers to the markets that we serve. As a result, a reduction in overall demand or increased costs to design and produce our products within these markets would likely further increase competition between us and other producers of membranes. This increased competition could cause us to reduce our prices, which could lower our profit margins and impair our ability to grow the Company year after year. We must continue to invest significant resources in developing innovative products in order to maintain a competitive edge in the highly specialized markets in which we operate. Our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain our technological capabilities and to continue to identify, develop and commercialize innovative products for the separation and filtration membrane industry. For example, products for some consumer electronics applications have a short lifecycle and require constant development. If we fail to continue to develop products for those markets or to keep pace with technological developments by our competitors generally, we may lose market share which could result in reduced revenue and impair our financial condition. If we do not successfully manage the transition in hemodialysis from cellulosic to synthetic filtration membranes, our revenues and profits could decline. Hemodialysis filtration membranes are fabricated from two classes of materials: cellulosic and synthetic. Historically, most filtration membranes for dialyzers have been manufactured with cellulosic materials, but in recent years hemodialysis market demand has shifted rapidly to synthetic membranes. We expect the decline in cellulosic demand to continue and to likely outpace synthetic revenue gains during the near term. If we do not successfully manage the transition from cellulosic to synthetic filtration membranes, including the conversion of existing cellulosic customers to our synthetic membrane products, our revenues and profits could decline. The loss of only a few of our large volume customers could reduce our revenues and profits. Our products are often sold to a relatively small number of large volume customers. For example, one of our customers, Exide Technologies, represented approximately 17% of our sales in fiscal 2005. As a result, a decrease in business from, or the loss of, any large volume customer such as Exide could reduce our revenues and our profits. Vertical integration by our customers of the production of our products into their own manufacturing processes could reduce our revenues and our profits. Our future revenues and profits will depend to a significant extent upon whether our customers choose in the future to manufacture the separation and filtration membranes used in their products instead of purchasing these components from us. For example, in the healthcare industry, many of the filtration membranes used in dialyzers are produced by the manufacturers of the dialyzers themselves. If any of our existing customers choose to vertically integrate the production of their products in such a manner, the loss of sales to these customers could reduce our revenues and our profits. Increases in prices for raw materials or the loss of key supplier contracts could reduce our profit margins. The primary raw materials we use in the manufacture of most of our products are polyethylene and polypropylene resins, silica, paper and oil. In fiscal 2005, raw materials accounted for approximately 40.2% 18 Table of Contents of our cost of sales. Although our major customer contracts generally allow us to pass increased costs on to our customers, we may not be able to pass on all raw material price increases to our customers in each case or without delay. The loss of any of our key suppliers could disrupt our business until we secure alternative supply arrangements. Furthermore, any new supply agreement we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those contained in our current supply arrangements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 